In an Oct. 19 review of `` The Misanthrope '' at Chicago 's Goodman Theatre -LRB- `` Revitalized Classics Take the Stage in Windy City , '' Leisure & Arts -RRB- , the role of Celimene , played by Kim Cattrall , was mistakenly attributed to Christina Haag . 
BELL INDUSTRIES Inc. increased its quarterly to 10 cents from seven cents a share . 
The new rate will be payable Feb. 15 . 
Solo woodwind players have to be creative if they want to work a lot , because their repertoire and audience appeal are limited . 
Richard Stoltzman has taken a gentler , more audience-friendly approach . 
Today , the pixie-like clarinetist has mostly dropped the missionary work -LRB- though a touch of the old Tashi still survives -RRB- and now goes on the road with piano , bass , a slide show , and a repertoire that ranges from light classical to light jazz to light pop , with a few notable exceptions . 
But you ca n't dismiss Mr. Stoltzman 's music or his motives as merely commercial and lightweight . 
He believes in what he plays , and he plays superbly . 
His recent appearance at the Metropolitan Museum , dubbed `` A Musical Odyssey , '' was a case in point . 
Clad in his trademark black velvet suit , the soft-spoken clarinetist announced that his new album , `` Inner Voices , '' had just been released , that his family was in the front row , and that it was his mother 's birthday , so he was going to play her favorite tune from the record . 
And so it went through the first half : an ingeniously chosen potpourri of pieces , none longer than five minutes , none that would disturb or challenge a listener . 
Mr. Stoltzman introduced his colleagues : Bill Douglas , pianist\/bassoonist\/composer and an old buddy from Yale , and jazz bassist Eddie Gomez . 
An improvisational section was built around pieces by Mr. Douglas , beginning with `` Golden Rain , '' a lilting , laid-back lead in to the uptempo `` Sky , '' which gave Mr. Stoltzman the opportunity to wail in a high register and show off his fleet fingers . 
Bach 's `` Air '' followed . 
The end of the first half , however , brought what the standing-room-only crowd seemed to be waiting for : the pop singer Judy Collins , who appears on `` Inner Voices . '' 
The end of the first half , however , brought what the standing-room-only crowd seemed to be waiting for : the pop singer Judy Collins , who appears on `` Inner Voices . '' Glamorous and pure-voiced as ever , Ms. Collins sang Joni Mitchell 's `` For Free '' -- about an encounter with a street-corner clarinetist , to which Mr. Stoltzman contributed a clarinet obligatto -- and Mr. Douglas 's lush setting of a Gaelic blessing , `` Deep Peace . '' `` Deep Peace '' also featured a slide show of lovely but predictable images of clouds , beaches , deserts , sunsets , etc . 
It was all too mellow to be believed , but they probably would have gotten away with it , had they not felt compelled to add Ms. Collins 's signature tune , `` Amazing Grace , '' and ask for audience participation . 
Was this why some of the audience departed before or during the second half ? Or was it because Ms. Collins had gone ? 
Mr. Stoltzman must have worried that his audience might not be able to take it 
He also unfortunately illustrated this intricate , jazzy tapestry with Mr. Pearson 's images , this time of geometric or repeating objects , in a kitschy mirroring of the musical structure that was thoroughly distracting from Mr. Reich 's piece and Mr. Stoltzman 's elegant execution of it . 
The rest of the concert was more straight jazz and mellow sounds written by Charlie Parker , Ornette Coleman , Bill Douglas and Eddie Gomez , with pictures for the Douglas pieces . 
Is this the future of chamber music ? 
Managers and presenters insist that chamber music concerts are a hard sell , but can audiences really enjoy them only if the music is purged of threatening elements , served up in bite-sized morsels and accompanied by visuals ? 
What 's next ? 
The U.S. , along with Britain and Singapore , left the agency when its anti-Western ideology , financial corruption and top leadership got out of hand . 
Mr. M'Bow was an extreme case , but even his replacement , the more personally genial Spanish biochemist Federico Mayor , has had little success at achieving reforms . 
Several ridiculous projects continue , including the `` New International Economic Order , '' which means redistributionism from the West to pay for everyone else 's statism . 
The Orwellian `` New World Information Order '' would give government officials rights against the press 
UNESCO somehow converted the founding U.N. ideals of individual rights and liberty into `` peoples ' rights . '' 
The agency was so totally subverted from the high principles of its founding that even the Soviets now wonder about an agency that seemed so congenial to them . 
UNESCO is now holding its biennial meetings in Paris to devise its next projects . 
Mr. Mayor 's hope that references to `` press freedom '' would survive unamended seems doomed to failure 
Mr. Mayor 's hope that references to `` press freedom '' would survive unamended seems doomed to failure ; the current phrasing is `` educating the public and media to avoid manipulation . '' 
He has n't been able to replace the M'Bow cabal . 
Soviets remain in charge of education programs , a former head of an African military tribunal for executions is in charge of culture , and a hard-line Polish communist in exile directs the human-rights and peace division . 
The position of the United States , which once contributed 25 % of the budget , is that nothing has changed . 
The position of the United States , which once contributed 25 % of the budget , is that nothing has changed . John Bolton , the assistant secretary of state for international organizations , told Congress that the continuing `` statist , restrictive , nondemocratic '' programs make rejoining any time soon `` extremely unlikely . '' 
We see an even stronger argument against UNESCO than its unsurprising failure to reform . 
This is that the Reagan Revolution spanning Eastern Europe and Tiananmen Square shows the power of ideas unencumbered by international civil servants or government functionaries . 
The Babelists of the United Nations are experts at obfuscation . 
This can have its purposes at times , but there 's no reason to cloud the importance and allure of Western concepts of freedom and justice . 
On a commercial scale , the sterilization of the pollen-producing male part has only been achieved in corn and sorghum feed grains . 
That 's because the male part , the tassel , and the female , the ear , are some distance apart on the corn plant . 
In a labor-intensive process , the seed companies cut off the tassels of each plant , making it male sterile . 
The first hybrid corn seeds produced using this mechanical approach were introduced in the 1930s and they yielded as much as 20 % more corn than naturally pollinated plants . 
A similar technique is almost impossible to apply to other crops , such as cotton , soybeans and rice . 
The male part , the anthers of the plant , and the female , the pistils , of the same plant are within a fraction of an inch or even attached to each other . 
A similar technique is almost impossible to apply to other crops , such as cotton , soybeans and rice . The male part , the anthers of the plant , and the female , the pistils , of the same plant are within a fraction of an inch or even attached to each other . The anthers in these plants are difficult to clip off . 
In China , a great number of workers are engaged in pulling out the male organs of rice plants using tweezers , and one-third of rice produced in that country is grown from hybrid seeds . 
The researchers also pulled off a second genetic engineering trick in order to get male-sterile plants in large enough numbers to produce a commercial hybrid seed crop . 
The laws of heredity dictate that half of the plants springing from these greenhouse-produced seeds will be male sterile and herbicide resistant and half will be male fertile and herbicide susceptible . 
In recent years , demand for hybrid seeds has spurred research at a number of chemical and biotechnology companies , including Monsanto Co. , Shell Oil Co. and Eli Lilly & Co . 
Robert Erwin , president of Biosource , called Plant Genetic 's approach `` interesting '' and `` novel , '' and `` complementary rather than competitive . '' 
Mr. Robinson of Delta & Pine , the seed producer in Scott , Miss. , said Plant Genetic 's success in creating genetically engineered male steriles does n't automatically mean it would be simple to create hybrids in all crops . 
Mr. Robinson of Delta & Pine , the seed producer in Scott , Miss. , said Plant Genetic 's success in creating genetically engineered male steriles does n't automatically mean it would be simple to create hybrids in all crops . That 's because pollination , while easy in corn because the carrier is wind , is more complex and involves insects as carriers in crops such as cotton . 
The clash is a sign of a new toughness and divisiveness in Japan 's once-cozy financial circles . 
Not only are Japan 's financial institutions putting their enormous clout to work 
Not only are Japan 's financial institutions putting their enormous clout to work ; increasingly they 're squaring off against one another in unprecedented public fashion . 
What triggered the latest clash was a skirmish over the timing of a New Zealand government bond issue . 
Nomura was attempting to organize the 50 billion-yen -LRB- $ 352 million -RRB- borrowing in Japan at a time when many Japanese banks , led by Industrial Bank of Japan , were pressuring the Wellington government to help them recover loans made to a defunct investment bank that had been owned by New Zealand 's civil-service pension fund . 
With Japan 's cash-flush banks aligned against it , though , raising money may be difficult . 
New Zealand 's finance minister , David Caygill , lashed out at such suggestions . 
`` It may very well be what the Japanese banks want , '' he told Radio New Zealand . 
No less significant than the Japanese banks ' attempt to cut off funds to pressure a foreign government are the implications of a confrontation between Japan securities and banking industries . 
Both sides are jealously guarding their turf , and relations have been at a flashpoint for months . 
In the past year , both have tried to stretch the limits of their businesses . 
Nomura started a credit-card venture with American Express Co. that allowed cardholders to use their Nomura securities accounts like a bank account , attracting the wrath of banks . And Industrial Bank of Japan started up a London securities subsidiary that sells Japanese stocks to non-Japanese institutions overseas , a move that stirred the anger of the stock brokerage firms . 
ITEL CORP. reported third-quarter earnings , which were mistakenly shown in the Quarterly Earnings Surprises table in yesterday 's edition to be lower than the average of analysts ' estimates . 
He will be in charge of research , equity sales and trading , and the syndicate operation of Rothschild . 
Crouched at shortstop , Bert Campaneris , once Oakland 's master thief , effortlessly scoops up a groundball and flips it to second . 
Crouched at shortstop , Bert Campaneris , once Oakland 's master thief , effortlessly scoops up a groundball and flips it to second . In the outfield , Paul Blair , the Orioles ' eight-time Gold Glove winner , elegantly shags a fly . 
But for the next few months , these boys of summers long past are going to be reveling in an Indian summer of the soul . 
Today is the debut of the Senior Professional Baseball Association , a new eight-team pro sports circuit , modeled after the highly successful senior tennis and golf tours and complete with good salaries , a cable television contract and even expansion plans . 
One hundred and ninety two former greats , near greats , hardly knowns and unknowns begin a 72-game , three-month season in spring-training stadiums up and down Florida . 
`` Someone always makes you quit , '' says legendary St. Louis Cardinals centerfielder Curt Flood , the league 's commissioner . 
And not just for the players . 
Early in the morning Mr. Sider , an estate lawyer , pores over last wills and testaments . 
It 's one more , too , for the fans who dream of a season that never ends . 
The league is the brainchild of Colorado real estate developer James Morley -- once a minor-leaguer himself -- who says he had the idea last January while lying on a beach in Australia . 
For some players , the lure is money -- up to $ 15,000 a month . 
`` My fastball is good . 
Mr. Broberg , who started with the now-defunct Washington Senators , says that when he left baseball in 1978 , he `` never looked back . '' 
Now Mr. Broberg , a lawyer , claims he 'd play for free . 
`` You ca n't give it up that easily , '' he says . 
Back in 1975 , late in the season , a then-21 Mr. Gideon made his only major league appearance , five and two-thirds innings for the Texas Rangers against the Chicago White Sox . 
He gave up seven hits , walked five and did n't get a decision . 
`` There 's a satisfaction in going against the rules , '' offers Will McEnaney , once a stopper with Cincinnati 's Big Red Machine . 
`` I personally do n't enjoy seeing players who I remember vividly from their playing days running about and being gallant about their deficiencies , '' says Roger Angell , New Yorker magazine 's resident baseball sage . 
But the ballplayers disagree . 
Most are trim . 
Some have been training for months 
Some have been training for months ; others only recently left active status . 
And there 's pride . 
`` It 's going to be a tough league , '' promises the 47-year-old Mr. Campaneris . 
`` There will be a lot of malice . '' 
So he adjusts . 
He no longer crowds the plate . 
And do n't expect many complete games by pitchers -- perhaps three out of 288 , laughs Mr. Fingers , the former Oakland reliever . 
Expect `` tricky '' stuff from pitchers , says Mr. Weaver , the manager . 
Expect brushbacks but no beanballs , says Mr. McEnaney . 
Even expect stolen bases 
And expect slower fastballs . 
`` I 'm not so young anymore , '' concedes the cigar-chomping , 48-year-old Mr. Tiant . 
White-haired Pedro Ramos , at 54 the league 's oldest player and a pitcher-coach with the Suns , has lost even more speed . 
Stuffing a wad of Red Man into his cheek , he admits the fastball he brought into the majors in 1955 has become a slowball . 
But he is n't worried . 
He will compensate with the guile learned from his years in the majors . 
He has good control . 
Stewart & Stevenson Services Inc. said it received two contracts totaling $ 19 million to build gas-turbine generators . 
These rate indications are n't directly comparable 
Statistics Canada said service-industry output in August rose 0.4 % from July . 
The holding company said it has been `` unfairly associated '' with other banks in New England that have had major loan losses in recent quarters . 
Seats currently are quoted at $ 400,000 bid , $ 425,000 asked . 
Mr. Ridley 's decision fires the starting pistol for perhaps a costly contest between the world 's auto giants for Britain 's leading luxury-car maker . 
Both General Motors Corp. and Ford Motor Co. have been trying to amass 15 % stakes in Jaguar . 
Ford , which already has an unwelcome 13.2 % holding , is prepared to bid for the entire company and had lobbied the government to lift the takeover restrictions early . 
But the government 's action , which caught Jaguar management flat-footed , may scuttle the GM minority deal by forcing it to fight for all of Jaguar . 
`` I ca n't believe they -LRB- GM -RRB- will let Ford have a free run , '' said Stephen Reitman , a European auto industry analyst at UBS-Phillips & Drew . 
Many investors certainly believe a bidding war is imminent . 
Jaguar shares skyrocketed yesterday after Mr. Ridley 's announcement , following their temporary suspension on London 's Stock Exchange . 
In late trading , the shares were up a whopping 122 pence -LRB- $ 1.93 -RRB- -- a 16.3 % gain -- to a record 869 pence on very heavy volume of 9.7 million shares . 
Speculation about a takeover fight has sent Jaguar shares soaring in the past six weeks . 
An aggressive Ford bid for Jaguar would put pressure on GM to make a better offer as the British company 's `` white knight . '' 
But it is n't clear how long GM would be willing to fight Ford for Jaguar . 
People close to the GM-Jaguar talks agreed that Ford now may be able to shut out General Motors . 
`` It 's either going to be a shootout , or there only may be one player in town , '' one person said . 
In a statement , Jaguar 's board said they `` were not consulted about the -LRB- Ridley decision -RRB- in advance and were surprised at the action taken . '' 
The statement emphasized that holders representing 75 % of the shares voting at a special shareholders ' meeting must agree to lift the takeover restrictions . 
U.S. auto analysts also noted that Ford is in the best position to benefit from the large number of Jaguar shares that have moved over the past month into the hands of arbitragers waiting for the highest takeover bid . 
In a prepared statement , GM suggested its plans for Jaguar would be more valuable in the long run than the initial windfalls investors might reap from a hostile Ford bid . 
Indeed , the government is taking a calculated risk . 
The Conservative government 's decision may reflect its desire to shed a politically sensitive issue well before the next election , expected in late 1991 . 
`` It 's now a very good time politically to get this over and done with , '' observed Daniel Jones , professor of motor industry management at the University of Cardiff in Wales . 
At the same time , the government did n't want to appear to favor GM by allowing a minority stake that might preclude a full bid by Ford . 
Mr. Ridley hinted at this motive in answering questions from members of Parliament after his announcement . 
Erwin Tomash , the 67-year-old founder of this maker of data communications products and a former chairman and chief executive , resigned as a director . 
For the nine months ended July 29 , SFE Technologies reported a net loss of $ 889,000 on sales of $ 23.4 million . 
In Tokyo , the Nikkei index of 225 selected issues was up 132.00 points to 35549.44 . 
The topic that attracted participants ' attention was Mitsubishi Estate 's purchase of 51 % of Rockefeller Center Properties , announced late Monday in New York . 
The gains also sparked buying interest in other real-estate companies , traders said . 
Sumitomo Realty & Development rose 40 to 2170 . 
Investor focus shifted quickly , traders said . 
In other stock-market news , the Tokyo Stock Exchange said that for the week ended Friday , the balance of margin buying rose 189.8 billion yen -LRB- $ 1.34 billion -RRB- , to 7.160 trillion yen -LRB- $ 50.46 billion -RRB- . 
`` Volume has been appalling , '' said a dealer at a British brokerage concern . 
`` The market was dragged up by the scruff of its neck by Wall Street and by market makers getting caught short . 
At the close , the narrower 30-share index was up 19.7 points to 1721.4 . 
The market also moved at early afternoon on news that Jaguar shares were being temporarily suspended at 746 pence -LRB- $ 11.80 -RRB- each . 
But although the golden share has been waived , a hostile bidder for Jaguar would still have to alter the British concern 's articles of association which ban shareholdings of more than 15 % . 
On the Frankfurt Stock Exchange , share prices closed higher in fairly thin trading , as selective buying by foreigners helped propel prices . 
Elsewhere , share prices closed higher in Amsterdam , Brussels , Milan and Paris . 
Stocks closed higher in Hong Kong , Manila , Singapore , Sydney and Wellington , but were lower in Seoul . 
A breakdown showed that food prices were the most active part of growth with a rise of 0.6 % . 
An official linked the gain essentially to higher prices for beef and pork . 
The index is intended to measure future economic performance . 
A figure above 50 indicates the economy is likely to expand 
Thomas A. Donovan , 37 years old , formerly vice president , West Coast operations , at this hazardous-waste-site remediation concern , was named executive vice president and chief operating officer , both newly created posts , and a director , filling a vacancy . 
The average yield on a six-month CD of $ 50,000 or less was 7.90 % , compared with 7.94 % a week earlier . 
`` This week was uneventful for the CD market , '' said Norberto Mehl , chairman of Banxquote . 
`` The major banks have n't even reacted to sharp rises in the three-month Treasury bill rates '' in the past two weeks . 
The CD trend runs counter to the direction of short-term interest rates at the Treasury bill auction Monday . 
The average six-month bill was sold with a yield of 8.04 % , up from 7.90 % . 
Typically , banks offer CD yields higher than those on Treasury bills , which are considered the safest short-term investments 
Most yields on short-term jumbo CDs , those with denominations over $ 90,000 , also moved in the opposite direction of Treasury bill yields . 
The average six-month yield on a jumbo CD was at 7.90 % , down from 7.93 % , Banxquote said . 
For longer-term CDs , yields were up . 
Among the major banks surveyed by Banxquote in six regions of the country , 8.33 % is the highest yield available . 
It is offered by the flagship banks of New York 's Manufacturers Hanover Corp. in the one-year maturity only . 
The yield is offered across a range of maturities at San Francisco 's BankAmerica Corp. and Wells Fargo & Co . 
Still , on average , the major California banks have the highest yields on CDs , according to Banxquote . 
But as the French embody a Zen-like state of blase when it comes to athletics -LRB- try finding a Nautilus machine in Paris -RRB- , my fellow conventioners were having none of it . 
Back in the U.S.A. this kind of chi-chi airborne activity wins heartwarmingly covetous responses . 
As in : `` You went ballooning ? ? ! ! In France ? ? ! ! '' 
Americans it seems have followed Malcolm Forbes 's hot-air lead and taken to ballooning in a heady way . 
During the past 25 years , the number of balloonists -LRB- those who have passed a Federal Aviation Authority lighter-than-air test -RRB- have swelled from a couple hundred to several thousand , with some estimates running as high as 10,000 . 
Some 30 balloon shows are held annually in the U.S. , including the world 's largest convocation of ersatz Phineas Foggs -- the nine-day Albuquerque International Balloon Fiesta that attracts some 800,000 enthusiasts and more than 500 balloons , some of which are fetchingly shaped to resemble Carmen Miranda , Garfield or a 12-story-high condom . 
But in Epinal , a gray 16th-century river town adjacent to France 's Vosges mountain region , none of these Yankee-come-lately enthusiasms for things aloft was evident . 
Ballooning at the de rigueur hour of 6 a.m. held all the attraction for most people of sunrise root-canal work . 
The first thing anybody will tell you about ballooning is that it requires zip in the way of athletic prowess , or even a measure of derring-do . 
I 'm not referring to the traditional champagne drenching during the back-on-terra-firma toast . 
I 'm talking about landing in a canal . 
I 'm talking about landing in a canal . In a porous wicker basket . 
In between came lots of coffee drinking while watching the balloons inflate and lots of standing around deciding who would fly in what balloon and in what order -LRB- the baskets hold no more than four passengers -RRB- . 
When it was n't my turn in the balloon I followed its progress from the `` chase car , '' listening to the driver holler into a walkie-talkie . 
After long stretches of this attendant ground activity came 20 or so lovely minutes of drifting above the Vosges watching the silver mists rise off the river and the French cows amble about the fields . 
No wonder . 
We were coming down straight into their canal . 
See , the other rule of thumb about ballooning is that you ca n't steer . And neither can your pilot . 
You can go only up or down -LRB- by heating the balloon 's air with a propane burner , which does make the top of your head feel hot -RRB- and ride the air currents . 
Most balloonists seldom go higher than 2,000 feet and most average a leisurely 5-10 miles an hour . 
When the balloon is cruising along at a steady altitude there is little sense of motion . 
`` What 's he doing ? '' hissed my companion , who was the only other English-speaking member of the convention and whose knuckles were white . 
`` Attention , '' yelled our pilot as our basket plunged into the canal . 
`` You bet attention , '' I yelled back , leaping atop the propane tanks , `` I 'm wearing alligator loafers ! '' 
Our pilot simply laughed , fired up the burner and with another blast of flame lifted us , oh , a good 12-inches above the water level . 
Eventually we came to rest in a soggy patch of field where we had the exquisite pleasure of scrambling out of the basket into the mud while the French half of our ballooning tag team scrambled in . 
We finally rendezvoused with our balloon , which had come to rest on a dirt road amid a clutch of Epinalers who watched us disassemble our craft -- another half-an-hour of non-flight activity -- that included the precision routine of yanking the balloon to the ground , punching all the air out of it , rolling it up and cramming it and the basket into the trailer . 
This meant returning to the golf course , where we watched a few French duffers maul the first tee while we sat under Cinzano umbrellas , me nursing an espresso and my ego . 
As for the ride back to camp , our pilot and all the other French-speaking passengers clambered into the chase car . 
My American companion and I were left to ride alfresco in the wicker basket . 
Differences between the Treasury and the Federal Reserve on the usefulness of intervention to help restrain the dollar resurfaced at the hearing . 
Rep. John LaFalce -LRB- D. , N.Y . -RRB- said Mr. Johnson refused to testify jointly with Mr. Mulford and instead asked to appear after the Treasury official had completed his testimony . 
On other matters , Mr. Mulford said West Germany is contributing to imbalances in the world economy because of its success as an exporter . 
Five officials of this investment banking firm were elected directors : E. Garrett Bewkes III , a 38-year-old managing director in the mergers and acquisitions department ; Michael R. Dabney , 44 , a managing director who directs the principal activities group which provides funding for leveraged acquisitions ; Richard Harriton , 53 , a general partner who heads the correspondent clearing services ; Michael Minikes , 46 , a general partner who is treasurer ; and William J. Montgoris , 42 , a general partner who is also senior vice president of finance and chief financial officer . 
The board increased by one to 26 members . 
But even though NATO negotiators have only 10 months left under the Bush timetable , they are still wrestling over such seemingly fundamental questions as `` What is a tank ? '' 
Tanks currently are defined as armored vehicles weighing 25 tons or more that carry large guns . 
The Soviets complicated the issue by offering to include light tanks , which are as light as 10 tons . 
But the issue is stickier than it seems . 
Defining combat aircraft is even tougher . 
The Soviets insisted that aircraft be brought into the talks , then argued for exempting some 4,000 Russian planes because they are `` solely defensive . '' NATO has n't budged from its insistence that any gun-carrying plane has offensive capability . 
Other nations are n't sure how many weapons they have in their own arsenals . 
So far , neither the Bush administration nor arms-control experts in Congress seem moved by arguments that these problems may take more time to thrash out than President Bush has allowed . 
`` So what if you miss 50 tanks somewhere ? '' asks Rep. Norman Dicks -LRB- D. , Wash. -RRB- , a member of the House group that visited the talks in Vienna . 
`` The bottom line is that if we can get that -LCB- Warsaw Pact -RCB- superiority brought down to parity , we ought to keep pressing ahead as quickly as possible . 
Two of the 757-200s are new aircraft to be delivered to American Trans Air , the main subsidiary of Amtran Inc. , in December 1991 and January 1992 . 
Norway 's unemployment rate for October was 3.6 % , unchanged from September but up from 2.6 % in the same month last year . 
The number of people registered as jobless at the end of October declined by 900 from September to 78,600 . 
The venture would be the latest in Coke 's rapid expansion of overseas investment . 
The move also reflects Coke 's eagerness to have a hand in developing the soft-drink markets in Pacific Basin countries . 
That 's because when Coke looks to the Pacific area , it sees an economic and demographic gold mine . 
In the past , however , Coke has typically taken a minority stake in such ventures . 
By acquiring stakes in bottling companies in the U.S. and overseas , Coke has been able to improve bottlers ' efficiency and production , and in some cases , marketing . 
That does n't appear to be the case in Singapore , a country of about three million people with a relatively high soft-drink consumption rate -- a key indicator of Coke 's success in a market . 
Fraser & Neave , which also has interests in packaging , beer and dairy products , holds the Coke licenses for Malaysia and Brunei , where per-capita consumption is n't as high as in Singapore . 
Coke could be interested in more quickly developing some of the untapped potential in those markets . 
The Aga Khan , meanwhile , agreed to trade some of his stake in Luxembourg-based Ifint S.A. , another Agnelli family company , for 7.45 % of Giovanni Agnelli & Co. 's capital . 
Your Oct. 2 page-one article on people riding so-called `` railbikes '' on railroad tracks was a disservice to your readers . 
The agreement ended a long impasse between the congressional leaders and the White House over the wage issue . 
The compromise was a somewhat softened version of what the White House had said it would accept . 
Mr. Bush had been holding out for a bill boosting the wage floor to $ 4.25 an hour by the end of 1991 , coupled with a six-month training wage for workers newly hired by any employer . 
Democrats had been negotiating with some Republican congressional leaders on a compromise lately . 
With congressional elections next year , GOP leaders have worried about opposing a minimum-wage rise for low-paid workers at a time when Congress is moving toward a capital-gains tax cut that would directly benefit wealthier taxpayers . 
The House is scheduled to vote this week on the compromise , as a substitute to a new Democratic bill , itself watered down from last spring 's version . 
Some Democrats thought they might have compromised too much . 
Rep. Austin Murphy -LRB- D. , Pa. -RRB- , chairman of the House labor standards subcommittee , said they might have done better `` if we 'd held their feet to the fire . '' 
With only 16-year-olds to 19-year-olds eligible , 68 % of workers getting less than $ 4.25 an hour , who are adults , wo n't be subject to the training wage , he said . 
Moody 's said Houston Lighting 's current situation has some positive aspects , including managing `` very well '' the construction and commercial operation risks of Units 1 and 2 of the South Texas Project nuclear power plant . 
Scott C. Smith , formerly vice president , finance , and chief financial officer of this media concern , was named senior vice president . 
Moreover , such a sale could help Armstrong reassure its investors and deter the Belzbergs , who own a 9.85 % stake in the Lancaster , Pa. , company . 
Analysts hailed the planned transaction as being beneficial to Armstrong and Shaw , the market leader in the U.S. carpet industry , with an estimated 17 % to 20 % share . 
Yesterday , in composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange , Shaw 's shares closed ex-dividend at $ 26.125 , up $ 2.25 . 
For the quarter , earnings were $ 47 million , or 92 cents a share , including a one-time gain of $ 5.9 million . 
`` I do n't think it provides much new information on the economy , '' said Richard Rippe , economist at Dean Witter Reynolds Inc . 
The September drop was the largest since a 19 % drop in January 1982 , but monthly changes in this measure are even less reliable than those in other economic indicators . 
The index of leading indicators got a major boost in September from a surge in consumer expectations as measured by the University of Michigan . 
This measure had dropped sharply in August . 
Several components that track the health of the manufacturing sector of the economy turned down in September . 
Meanwhile , the National Association of Manufacturers said yesterday a recent poll of 53 executives on its board found that 61 % do n't expect a recession to occur until 1991 or later . 
Although manufacturers often are quick to call for lower interest rates , 60 % of the executives said they would prefer that the Fed keep inflation-fighting as its top priority even if that means higher rates . 
After various adjustments , they produced a 0.5 % rise in the index for August and a 0.2 % rise for September . 
The charge resulted from a settlement approved yesterday by the Massachusetts Department of Public Utilities . 
Bids totaling $ 515 million were submitted . 
Bids totaling $ 475 million were submitted . 
Accepted bids ranged from 8 % to 8.019 % . 
It 's also unnecessary . 
He is 37 , an astronomer with impressive credentials , and something of a genius at making computers do his bidding . 
He also is an entertaining writer , combining wisecracks and wordplay with programmatic detail and lucid explanations of how computers work . 
The result last spring was the arrest by West German authorities of five young West Germans , accused of stealing information from computers in the U.S. and Europe and selling it to the Soviet KGB . 
One of them , 25-year-old Markus Hess of Hannover , allegedly used the international telecommunications network to break into more than 30 high-security computers in the U.S. , searching for secrets . 
He probably did n't penetrate any top-secret files , but the KGB in East Berlin was willing to pay two of his associates , Peter Carl and Dirk Brezinski , $ 15,000 for some of the material Hess collected . 
Mr. Stoll draws his title from the cuckoo 's habit of laying eggs in the nests of other birds , making them surrogate parents . 
The computer spy had discovered that a popular editing\/electronic mail program called Gnu-Emacs could do tricks with the widely used Unix operating system created by AT&T . 
Using Gnu-Emacs , the spy could substitute a bogus `` atrun '' program for the one that routinely cleans up the Unix system every five minutes . 
Mr. Stoll was scanning the heavens at the Keck observatory of the Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory in 1986 when his grant ran low and he was asked to switch to helping run the lab 's computers . 
He discovered a 75-cent discrepancy in the charges made to various departments for computer time and traced it to a user named `` Hunter , '' who had no valid billing address . 
But after much tracking , it became evident to Mr. Stoll , through various clues , that the hacker was not on the Berkeley campus or even in California . 
Finding him became an obsession for Mr. Stoll . 
He made a midnight requisition of all the printers he could lay hands on so that he could monitor all the telephone lines coming into the lab 's computers . 
He made a midnight requisition of all the printers he could lay hands on so that he could monitor all the telephone lines coming into the lab 's computers . After discovering that the hacker had taken over the dormant account of a legitimate user named Joe Sventek , he rigged up an alarm system , including a portable beeper , to alert him when Sventek came on the line . 
Some nights he slept under his desk . 
The hacker was pawing over the Berkeley files but also using Berkeley and other easily accessible computers as stepping stones to the network of computers used by the military and national security agencies . 
When the hacker moved , Mr. Stoll moved too , calling up other systems managers to alert them but keeping his own system open to avoid arousing suspicion . 
The FBI initially showed little interest , and he had the impression other federal security agencies were tangled up in legal red tape . 
The CIA told him it does not do domestic counterespionage . 
One learns a lot from this book , or seems to , about crippling federal bureaucracy . 
Finally , he got help . 
Eventually , Mr. Stoll was invited to both the CIA and NSA to brief high-ranking officers on computer theft . 
He savored the humor of his uncombed appearance among these buttoned-up chaps . 
Back in Berkeley , he was violently scolded by a left-wing lady friend for consorting with such people . 
He became angry in return . 
The computer processes 55 million instructions per second and uses only one central processing chip , unlike many rival machines using several processors . 
At that price , an analyst familiar with the machine said , the computer offers up to 10 times the performance of similar machines . 
Mips also wants to wedge into markets other than traditional RISC applications such as engineering ; Mips said the new machine will also be used by businesses and for communications . 
For Mips , which expects revenue of $ 100 million this year , big-name allies such as Control Data are essential to attract software developers to the company 's RISC architecture . 
`` The thing it says about Mips is that they 're on a roll right now , '' said Ms. Gant at InfoCorp . 
Last month , for example , Mips agreed to supply its computers to Nixdorf Computer AG of West Germany and France 's Groupe Bull . 
The machine is essentially a mainframe computer , he said . 
The machine uses a single processor , which makes it easier to program than competing machines using several processors . 
The computer can process 13.3 million calculations called floating-point operations every second . 
Instead , the GAO and the Congressional Budget Office said , the RTC should consider using Treasury debt , which is less expensive and subject to oversight by Congress . 
The RTC has projected that it will require between $ 50 billion to $ 100 billion in temporary working capital . 
But higher interest rates paid on off-budget debt could add billions to the bailout costs , and would n't be subject to congressional scrutiny , Ways and Means members argued . 
But the worst possibility would be raising no working capital , he said . 
The natural gas pipeline concern said the 500 million cubic feet a day capacity pipeline would be built by a proposed joint venture between two Panhandle Eastern units - Texas Eastern Transmission Corp. and Trunkline Gas Co . 
Chez Panisse , whose founder , Alice Waters , is considered the inventor of the cooking style known as California cuisine and whose patrons make reservations a month in advance , has n't exactly subjected diners to vanilla ice cream because of the theft . 
And that puts added pressure on Chez Panisse dessert-menu planners . 
Ms. Shere has offered a $ 500 reward for the book 's return but figures she 'll have to reinvent many recipes from scratch . 
`` It 's an overwhelming job , '' she says . 
Scott Wakeman was named president and chief operating officer of U.S. operations , titles that had been held by Mr. Weekes . 
The Wilmington , Mass. , garment service company also boosted its quarterly dividend 20 % to three cents a share adjusted for the split . 
Separately , UniFirst reported that net income rose 21 % to $ 3 million , or 29 cents a share adjusted for the split , for the fourth quarter ended Aug. 26 . 
A year earlier UniFirst earned $ 2.4 million , or 24 cents a share adjusted for the split . 
Fibreboard Corp. said it completed the previously reported sale of approximately 27,500 acres of timberland near Truckee , Calif. , to closely held Sierra Pacific Industries Corp. , Arcata , Calif. , for $ 32.5 million . 
Under the agreement , Healthcare , a manager of health-care facilities , said it would pay HealthVest $ 3.9 million in overdue rent and mortgage payments and repay $ 1.1 million in funds that HealthVest advanced for construction work on facilities . 
After the payment , Healthcare still will be $ 6.5 million in arrears on rent and mortgage payments to HealthVest , a real estate investment trust whose portfolio consists largely of properties operated by Healthcare . 
In addition , Healthcare agreed to make monthly rent and mortgage payments of $ 2.7 million to $ 3 million to HealthVest during the standstill period , to be paid when Healthcare successfully completes asset sales . 
The funds should help ease a cash bind at HealthVest , which has been unable to pay its debts because Healthcare has n't made complete rent and mortgage payments since July . 
I was pleased to note that your Oct. 23 Centennial Journal item recognized the money-fund concept as one of the significant events of the past century . 
But the Reserve Fund , America 's first money fund , was not named , nor were the creators of the money-fund concept , Harry Brown and myself . 
Baskets of roses and potted palms adorned his bench . 
Baskets of roses and potted palms adorned his bench . The local American Legion color guard led the way . 
But then Judge O'Kicki often behaved like a man who would be king -- and , some say , an arrogant and abusive one . 
Last March , nine months after the judge 's swearing-in , the state attorney general 's office indicted him on a sweeping array of charges alleging more than 10 years of `` official oppression '' in Cambria County , a depressed steel and mining community in western Pennsylvania . 
In testimony recorded in the grand jury report , court employees said the judge , now 59 years old , harassed his secretaries , made imperial demands on his staff and hounded anyone who crossed him . 
Bailiffs claimed they were required to chauffeur him to and from work , mow his lawn , chop his wood , fix his car and even drop by his house to feed his two grown mutts , Dixie and Husky . 
Some of the allegations are simply bizarre . 
Two former secretaries told the grand jury they were summoned to the judge 's chambers on separate occasions to take dictation , only to find the judge in his bikini underwear . 
The judge , suspended from his bench pending his trial , which began this week , vehemently denies all the allegations against him , calling them `` ludicrous '' and `` imaginative , political demagoguery . '' 
`` I do n't know whose toes I 've stepped on , '' says the judge . 
Lawyers and their clients who frequently bring business to a country courthouse can expect to appear before the same judge year after year . 
The son of an immigrant stonemason of Slovenian descent , he was raised in a small borough outside Ebensburg , the Cambria County seat , and put himself through the University of Pittsburgh Law School . 
It was also in law school that Mr. O'Kicki and his first wife had the first of seven daughters . 
Last year , Pennsylvania Supreme Court Justice John P. Flaherty called Mr. O'Kicki one of the finest judges `` not only in Pennsylvania but in the United States . '' 
After practicing law locally , he was elected to his first 10-year term as judge in 1971 
After practicing law locally , he was elected to his first 10-year term as judge in 1971 ; in 1981 , he was effectively re-elected . 
Six years ago , Judge O'Kicki was voted president of the Pennsylvania Conference of State Trial Judges by the state 's 400 judges . 
`` He probably was the smartest guy who ever sat on our bench , '' says a former president of Cambria County 's 150-member bar association , who , like most lawyers in Cambria County , refuses to talk about the judge publicly . 
`` He 's sharp as a tack . 
For more than a decade , virtually no one complained about Judge O'Kicki . 
`` What about those institutions that are supposed to be the bedrock of society , the banks and the bar association ... ? '' wrote a columnist for the Tribune-Democrat , a newspaper in nearby Johnstown , shortly after the scandal became public . 
Officials with the Pennsylvania Judicial Inquiry and Review Board , the arm of the state that investigates judicial misconduct , counter that they had no inkling of anything amiss in Ebensburg . 
`` Nobody told us 
`` Nobody told us ; nobody called us , '' says an official close to the case who asked not to be named . 
Certainly not the lawyers . 
Johnstown attorney Richard J. Green Jr. shelled out $ 500 in loans to the judge over five years , he said in testimony to the grand jury . 
When Mr. Green won a $ 240,000 verdict in a land condemnation case against the state in June 1983 , he says Judge O'Kicki unexpectedly awarded him an additional $ 100,000 . 
Says another lawyer : `` The practice of law is a matter of biting one 's lip when you live in a small community . 
The judge was considered imperious , abrasive and ambitious , those who practiced before him say . 
He sipped tea sweetened with honey from his high-backed leather chair at his bench , while scribbling notes ordering spectators to stop whispering or to take off their hats in his courtroom . 
Visitors in his chambers say he could cite precisely the years , months , weeks and days remaining until mandatory retirement would force aside the presiding president judge , giving Judge O'Kicki the seniority required to take over as the county 's top court administrator . 
`` My name is judge , '' Judge O'Kicki told a car salesman in Ebensburg when he bought a new red Pontiac Sunbird in October 1984 , according to the grand-jury report . 
`` The arrogance of a judge , his demeanor , the way he handles people are not a basis for filing a complaint , '' says Mr. Bognato . 
The inquiry soon focused on the judge . 
Even his routine business transactions caused trouble , according to the grand jury report . 
When the judge bought his new Sunbird from James E. Black Pontiac-Cadillac in Ebensburg five years ago , the dealership had `` certain apprehensions '' about the judge 's reputation , according to the grand-jury report . 
But when the judge received his payment book , he disavowed the deal . 
Later , the judge went a step farther . 
After Laurel Bank tried to repossess the car , a vice president asked him to intervene in an unrelated legal dispute involving a trust account . 
`` I find myself in an adversary relationship with Laurel Bank , and I am not inclined to extend myself as far as any favors are concerned , '' the judge wrote back in a letter attached to the grand jury 's report . 
`` Perhaps if my personal matters can be resolved with Laurel bank in the near future , I may be inclined to reconsider your request ... . '' 
The bank acquiesced . 
The incident was n't the only time the judge got special treatment from his local bank . 
Two years later , he wrote to complain that the interest he was paying on an unsecured $ 10,000 loan was `` absolutely onerous . '' 
Paul L. Kane , Laurel 's president at the time , quickly responded . 
The judge says he ca n't discuss in detail how he will defend himself at his trial , although he contends that if he were as corrupt as state prosecutors believe , he would be far wealthier than he is . 
The judge says he is confident he will return to his old bench . 
Already , he notes , the 76 charges originally filed against him have been trimmed to 27 . 
Most of the allegations no longer pending were ethics charges withdrawn by state prosecutors as part of a pre-trial agreement . 
`` If I lose , I lose my position , my career , my pension , my home and my investments , '' says the judge . 
Many thanks for Alexander Cockburn 's comic masterpiece -LRB- `` U.S. . Economy : A House Built on Junk-Bond Sand , '' Viewpoint , Oct. 19 -RRB- . 
I await his sequel : the economic and social resiliency of the San Francisco Bay area and the outstanding work of the local governments and the private charitable organizations there as metaphors for the supremacy of whatever failed system Mr. Cockburn now believes in . 
The Wall Street Journal is an excellent publication that I enjoy reading -LRB- and must read -RRB- daily . 
The first part , consisting of $ 151 million of 13 3\/4 % senior subordinated reset notes , was priced at 99.75 . 
However , the maximum coupon at which the notes can be reset is 16 1\/4 % . 
The second part , consisting of $ 100 million of senior subordinated floating-rate notes , was priced at 99 3\/4 to float 4.25 % above the three-month London interbank offered rate . 
The group 's bid for $ 40.9 million of wastewater treatment insured bonds , Series 1989 A , produced a 7.0826 % true interest cost . The Series 1989 A bonds are insured and rated triple-A by Moody 's and S&P . 
Interest on the bonds will be treated as a preference item in calculating the federal alternative minimum tax that may be imposed on certain investors . 
$ 300 million of bonds due Nov. 16 , 1993 , with equity-purchase warrants , indicating a 3 3\/4 % coupon at par via Nomura International Ltd . 
$ 200 million of bonds due Nov. 16 , 1994 , with equity-purchase warrants , indicating a 4 1\/2 % coupon at par via Yamaichi International Europe Ltd . 
John M. Kucharski , EG&G 's chairman and chief executive , said the acquisition `` will extend EG&G 's core technologies , strengthen its position in the European Economic Community and assure a strength and presence in the Eastern European market . '' 
Separately , EG&G said it sold most of its Mason Research Institute subsidiary to Transgenic Sciences Inc. , a closely held biotechnology company based in Worcester , Mass . 
Separately , a federal judge hearing Mr. Hunt 's bankruptcy case yesterday turned down a proposed $ 65.7 million settlement between Mr. Hunt and Minpeco S.A. , another major creditor in the case . 
In addition to turning down the compromise , Judge Harold C. Abramson said he would allow a claim of only $ 19.7 million . 
But they have been at odds over how much Mr. Hunt would owe the government after his assets are sold . 
An increasing number of big Japanese investors are buying up U.S. home mortgages that have been pooled and packaged for sale as interest-bearing instruments known as mortgage-backed securities . 
`` You ca n't say it 's a `` tsunami '' -LRB- tidal wave -RRB- , but we 're making some headway , '' says Fannie Mae 's chairman , David O. Maxwell , who visits Tokyo at least once a year to explain and drum up investor interest in mortgage securities . 
`` Interest is a great deal higher than it was a year ago . '' 
Evidence of the growing Japanese demand for mortgage securities abounds . 
Earlier this year , Blackstone Group , a New York investment bank , had no trouble selling out a special $ 570 million mortgage-securities trust it created for Japanese investors . 
`` Last year , there were only several big investors who were interested , '' says Kinji Kato , a vice president at the international arm of Nomura Securities Co . 
First , they are safe . 
Second , they are liquid . 
Third , they offer high yields . 
But there is a risk , which the Japanese discovered when they first dipped their toes into the market nearly five years ago . 
Since most mortgages can be prepaid or refinanced at any time , issuers of mortgage securities retain the right to buy back their bonds before maturity . 
But they did n't lose touch with the U.S. issuers . 
In addition , further packaging of mortgage-backed securities , such as Blackstone 's fund , have reduced the effects of prepayment risk and automatically reinvest monthly payments so institutions do n't have to . 
Supporters of poison pills argue that their adoption forces bidders to negotiate with a corporation 's directors , who are thereby put in a better position to pursue the long-term interests of the corporation . 
Critics of poison pills argue that they harm shareholders by letting corporate management defeat takeover bids at premium prices and by deterring premium bids from ever being made to shareholders . 
Institutional investors that must evaluate poison pills on a regular basis are interested less in this general debate than in the answers to specific questions about the corporation issuing the pill . 
Does this corporation have a high-quality management team with a good track record ? 
Does this corporation have a high-quality management team with a good track record ? Does this team have a viable strategy for improving shareholder values , and does this strategy require implementation over an extended period ? 
However , the problem is that once most poison pills are adopted , they survive forever . 
Although the current management team may be outstanding , who will be the CEO in 10 years ? 
The solution to this problem is a time-limited poison pill . 
The limit could range from three years to seven years , depending on the composition of the management team and the nature of its strategic plan . 
One rare example of a time-limited poison pill is the shareholder rights plan adopted by Pennzoil last year after it received a huge litigation settlement from Texaco . 
Another interesting example is the poison pill adopted recently by Pittsburgh-based National Intergroup Inc. , a diversified holding company . 
The State of Wisconsin Investment Board , which owned about 7 % of the company 's voting stock , worked with management to devise a time-limited poison pill . 
More widespread time limits on poison pills would allow shareholders to evaluate a specific poison pill within the context of a specific management team 's strategy . 
Mr. Blair and Hees have been feuding for months . 
Yesterday 's election was a sequel to Enfield 's annual meeting in June when Mr. Blair disallowed proxies in favor of two Hees nominees . 
Mr. Blair said his libel suit seeks 10 million Canadian dollars -LRB- US$ 8.5 million -RRB- from Canadian Express and Hees executives Manfred Walt and Willard L'Heureux . 
But in another sense , the $ 846 million purchase is uncharacteristically nervy , industry analysts say . 
Officials of Rockefeller Group and Mitsubishi Estate prefer to focus on the affinities , nearly dismissing the threat of a backlash from the U.S. public . 
`` We think there will be positive as well as negative reactions , '' says Raymond Pettit , senior vice president and chief financial officer of Rockefeller Group . 
Since the mid-1980s , Japan 's other major real estate purchases in the U.S. include Dai-Ichi Seimei America Corp. 's $ 670 million purchase of an office building at 153 East 53rd St. in Manhattan in 1987 and Mitsui Fudosan Inc. 's $ 610 million purchase of the Exxon Building , part of Rockefeller Center , in 1986 . 
Many Japanese companies have taken the warnings by the country 's leaders to heart and sought development partnerships rather than landmark properties . 
Critics say Mitsubishi Estate 's decision to buy into Rockefeller reflects the degree to which companies are irritated by the pressure to act for the good of Japan . 
Rockefeller may well have found its match in Mitsubishi Estate , a company of long history , strong government ties and sound resources . 
In asset terms , Mitsubishi Estate is the largest real estate firm in Japan . 
At the time , Japan had just opened its doors to the world after about 250 years of isolation and needed a Western-style business center . 
It 's known for its cautiousness in part because it has had little need for bold overseas ventures 
It 's known for its cautiousness in part because it has had little need for bold overseas ventures : In the year ended March 31 , 57.4 % of its total revenue came from office building management . 
Its earnings can rise 10 % to 12 % annually simply from the natural turnover of tenants and automatic rent increases , says Graeme McDonald , an industry analyst at James Capel Pacific Ltd . 
Meanwhile , at home , Mitsubishi has control of some major projects . 
Sony is acquiring Columbia and Guber-Peters Entertainment Co. in two separate transactions valued at more than $ 5 billion . 
Warner Communications Inc. , which is being acquired by Time Warner , has filed a $ 1 billion breach-of-contract suit against Sony and the two producers . 
But it may amount to little more than posturing 
Instead , Sony is likely to agree to let Warner participate in certain of its businesses , such as the record club of Sony 's CBS Records unit . 
One , for example , came from CBS Records Chairman Walter Yetnikoff , who will head a committee that will oversee Sony 's entertainment division , including both records and movies . 
But despite the acrimony between Mr. Ross and Mr. Yetnikoff , officials of the Time side of Time Warner have reportedly been increasingly interested in a settlement that might yield attractive business opportunities . 
But that does n't mean Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters might not eventually get their hands on some of their projects 
Gulf Power 's guilty plea before U.S. District Judge Robert L. Vining yesterday marks the end of only one part of a wide-ranging inquiry of Southern Co . 
`` The terms announced today are strictly between the United States and Gulf Power , '' said U.S. Attorney Robert L. Barr . 
The Appleyard Agency , for example , allegedly made contributions from 1982 to 1984 to various funds for political candidates , then submitted bills to Gulf Power . 
But at a time of mounting concern over alcohol abuse , some liquor marketers consider Seagram 's frequent buyer promotion risky . 
`` I 'm surprised they 're doing this , '' says Penn Kavanagh , president of Schieffelin & Somerset Co. , which markets Johnnie Walker scotches . 
Others question the impact on Chivas 's upscale image of a promotion that has customers soaking off labels . 
`` It 's really bizarre , '' says Albert Lerman , creative director at the Wells Rich Greene ad agency . 
Chivas Class is n't the first such promotion . 
But the scope of Seagram 's Chivas promotion sets it apart . 
Seagram says the promotion is designed to build brand loyalty rather than promote heavy drinking . 
Seagram asks customers to buy only two or three bottles over a 12-month period , says Richard Shaw , vice president of U.S. direct marketing . 
`` We 're not asking them to save up 50 proof-of-purchases . 
The Secaucus , N.J. , company has formed a joint venture with a distributor called La Lecheria to market a higher-fat milk targeted at Hispanic consumers . 
To give Leche Fresca the creamier taste Goya says Hispanics prefer , the new brand has a butterfat content of 3.8 % . 
A spokesman for Borden Inc. , the nation 's largest milk producer , concedes Goya may be on to something . 
Borden sells considerably more whole milk than reduced-fat milks in southern and Hispanic markets , he says . 
And it 's adding 15 to 20 new outlets a day , says Greg Ricca , sales director at La Lecheria . 
FOR YEARS , costume jewelry makers fought a losing battle . 
To increase their share of that business , jewelry makers such as Crystal Brands Inc. 's Trifari and Monet units and Swank Inc. , maker of Anne Klein jewelry , are launching new lines with as much fanfare as the fragrance companies . 
But there are limits . 
Ms. Renk says retailers nixed a promotion for pins with animal motifs . 
Trifari , whose national ads earlier this year included paper cutouts of its costume finery , takes a tamer approach . 
The company focuses on the how-to aspects , says Andrew E. Philip , president . 
But cosmetics firms still have one big marketing edge 
But cosmetics firms still have one big marketing edge : They motivate sales people with commissions . 
DESPITE GROWING interest in the environment , U.S. consumers have n't shown much interest in refillable packages for household products . 
Procter & Gamble Co. recently introduced refillable versions of four products , including Tide and Mr. Clean , in Canada , but does n't plan to bring them to the U.S. . 
U.S. District Judge Julian A. Cook Jr. announced the settlements as the jury trial was to begin yesterday . 
His original strategy -LRB- in itself a brilliant innovation for spreading a religion -RRB- was to create new economic enterprises each time he wanted to extend and fund his various religious missions . 
Tax-exempt airport and street-corner solicitations were intended only to provide start-up funds . 
Their legacy lives on . 
It is still common to read in the press that the church has 10,000 or more full-time American members and 25,000 `` associates . '' 
But internal church documents clearly show that at its publicity-seeking heights , as when it organized a spectacular Yankee Stadium bicentennial rally in 1976 , there actually were only about 2,000 full-time Unification Church members in the U.S. 
Mr. Moon 's support for a Watergate-beleaguered Richard Nixon , the Koreagate scandal , and his prison sentence for income-tax evasion did not help the church 's recruitment efforts . 
Defections , burnouts , and abduction `` deprogrammings '' kept member turnover high . 
That the membership number has even kept close to its 1976 size is the result of the `` graying '' of the church . 
The reputed wealth of the Unification Church is another matter of contention . 
Yet these purchases can be misleading . 
Most were obtained with huge inputs of church money from South Korea and Japan , minimum cash downpayments and sizable mortgages . 
Those teams of young fund-raisers selling flowers , peanuts or begging outright at traffic intersections brought in somewhere near $ 20 million a year during the mid-to-late 1970s , but those revenues were a pittance compared to the costs of Mr. Moon 's lavish international conferences , speaking tours , and assorted land buys . 
Mr. Moon 's two English-language U.S. newspapers illustrate the scope of this financial drain . 
Since then , Moon 's organization has inaugurated a pair of high-quality glossy opinion magazines , The World and I and Insight , which are a further drain . 
Many American church-owned businesses , such as a $ 30 million factory to build fishing vessels , are defunct . 
Some components of the American church had their budgets cut in half last year and again this year . 
I attended several of these in the dual role as a presenter of research findings as well as an investigator of my hosts . 
According to veteran watchers of Unificationist affairs , such as Dr. J. Gordon Melton , director of the Institute for the Study of American Religion , almost all operations are being drastically reduced as Mr. Moon now concentrates more on developing his empire in the Far East . 
`` Everything , '' one non-`` Moonie '' senior consultant to the Unification Church recently told me in an interview , `` is going back to Korea and Japan . '' 
-LRB- Europe had proved even less hospitable than North America . 
So Mr. Moon is in retreat , refocusing on the Far East . 
South Korea and Japan continue to be profitable . 
Moon 's Tong'Il industry conglomerate is now investing heavily in China , where church accountants have high hopes of expanding and attracting converts even in the wake of the bloody massacre in Tiananmen Square . 
According to senior consultants to the church , Mr. Moon has successfully negotiated a joint venture with the Chinese government to build an automobile-parts plant in Guangdong Province , an area of China with a substantial Korean minority . 
Mr. Moon has agreed to put up $ 10 million a year for 25 years and keep the profits in China . 
Spokespersons for both the trust and the company refused to comment on whether any talks with a possible acquirer of Manville had actually taken place . 
The Soviet Union 's jobless rate is soaring to 27 % in some areas , Pravda said . 
An 11-week dispute involving Australia 's 1,640 domestic pilots has slashed airline earnings and crippled much of the continent 's tourist industry . 
`` The only people who are flying are those who have to , '' said Frank Moore , chairman of the Australian Tourist Industry Association . 
Mr. Nahas , who single-handedly provoked a one-day closure of Brazil 's stock markets in June when he failed to honor a debt of $ 31.1 million owed to his brokers , yesterday blamed his predicament on the president of the Sao Paulo stock exchange 
China 's parliament ousted two Hong Kong residents from a panel drafting a new constitution for the colony . 
However , a Canadian Embassy official in Tel Aviv said that Canada was unlikely to sell the Candu heavy-water reactor to Israel since Israel has n't signed the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty . 
Poland is the second Communist nation to recognize the Seoul government 
Earlier this year , Venezuela announced it was opening up debt-equity swaps to foreign investors but said the program would be limited to a net disbursement of $ 600 million a year . 
The office of foreign investment has authorized some $ 1.78 billion worth of investment proposals , said Edwin Perozo , superintendent of foreign investment . 
A song by American singer Tracy Chapman praising jailed black leader Nelson Mandela was banned from South African state radio and television . 
Britain 's House of Commons passed a law that will force English soccer fans to carry identity cards to enter stadiums . 
As a result , Judge John F. Keenan of New York ordered Mrs. Marcos to turn over to the court all pleadings and documents she may have filed in foreign countries in opposition to U.S. requests for evidence . 
In 1988 , a year and a half after Mrs. Marcos and her late husband , Ferdinand Marcos , the ousted president of the Philippines , fled the Philippines for Hawaii , they were charged with racketeering , conspiracy , obstruction of justice and mail fraud in a scheme in which they allegedly embezzled more than $ 100 million from their homeland . 
The judge also said the two marital testimonial privileges cited by Mrs. Marcos do n't apply . 
But Judge Keenan said that privilege 's purpose is `` fostering harmony in marriage . '' 
The Sidley-Ashurst venture will also be staffed by another Sidley partner specializing in corporate law , a partner from Ashurst concentrating on acquisitions and a Japanese attorney . 
Ashurst is new to the Far East . 
A three-judge panel of the court in Cincinnati made the ruling Saturday . 
The union sued the state in November 1985 , alleging that it intentionally segregated job classifications by sex and paid employees in predominantly female jobs less than males in comparable jobs . The UAW also charged that the state applied its own standards for determining pay in a discriminatory manner . 
A Texas legislator proposes color-coding drivers ' licenses of some drug offenders . 
State Senator J.E. `` Buster '' Brown , a Republican who is running for Texas attorney general , introduced the bill . 
He said an altered license would be an `` embarrassment '' to teenagers and young adults and would act as a deterrant to drug use . 
Employees wore identification badges listing not only their names but also their dates of hire . 
But in 1986 , the badges and the `` do n't speak out of turn '' rule were abolished -- early steps in a cultural revolution still rolling on with all the subtlety of a freight train . 
In recent years , Nissan has instituted flex-time work schedules and allowed employees to dress casually , even in blue jeans . 
In recent years , Nissan has instituted flex-time work schedules and allowed employees to dress casually , even in blue jeans . A rule forbidding staffers to own competitors ' cars has been lifted , and now many designers drive foreign cars to get useful ideas . 
And in a Japanese corporate first , Nissan recently opened the first coed company dormitory for single employees at the suburban Tokyo technical center . 
This corporate glasnost is a big reason Nissan , after years of making lackluster cars and lousy profits , has loosened up its rigid ways and now is riding a string of hits , ranging from the sleek Maxima sedan and Porsche-like 300ZX to the whimsically nostalgic Pao , a minicar sold only in Japan . 
The company 's turnaround is far from complete 
The big one : A company 's culture ca n't be radically changed unless top management first admits that things have gone badly awry and then publicly leads the charge . 
Atsushi Muramatsu , Nissan 's executive vice president for finance , helped set the tone in December 1986 , when the company was heading toward the first operating loss by a Japanese auto maker since the nation 's postwar recovery . 
`` This is a time of self-criticism to discover what is wrong with us , '' he said . 
No wonder . 
Nissan 's market share in Japan had been dropping year by year since the beginning of the decade . 
Its U.S. sales sagged , partly because of price increases due to the rising yen . 
Consider the experience of Satoko Kitada , a 30-year-old designer of vehicle interiors who joined Nissan in 1982 . 
At that time , tasks were assigned strictly on the basis of seniority . 
`` The oldest designer got to work on the dashboard , '' she recalls . 
`` The next level down did doors . 
This system produced boring , boxy cars that consumers just were n't buying . 
Some town-watching excursions were downright comic . 
Other trips were more productive . 
Later , Nissan borrowed other Honda practices , including an engineering `` idea contest '' to promote inventiveness . 
Such sudden cultural shifts may come across as a bit forced , but they seem to be genuine -- so much so , in fact , that some older employees have resisted . 
Despite the pain of adjusting , the cultural revolution has begun to yield exciting cars . 
A year ago , the company completely revamped its near-luxury sedan , the $ 17,699 Maxima , which competes against a broad range of upscale sedans 
A year ago , the company completely revamped its near-luxury sedan , the $ 17,699 Maxima , which competes against a broad range of upscale sedans ; it replaced its boxy , pug-nosed body with sleek , aerodynamic lines . Since then , Nissan also has launched new versions of the $ 13,249 240SX sporty coupe and 300ZX sports car . The restyled 300ZX costs as much as $ 33,000 and is squared off against the Porche 944 , which begins at $ 41,900 . Besides new styling , the new Nissans have more powerful engines and more sophisticated suspension systems . 
In its home market , Nissan has grabbed attention with limited-production minicars featuring styling odd enough to be cute . 
Nissan helped develop a Tokyo restaurant with both vehicles as its design theme . 
All these vehicles have sharply improved Nissan 's morale and image -- but have n't done much for its market share . 
Nissan had 29 % of the Japanese car market in 1980 before beginning a depressing eight-year slide that continued through last year . 
Nissan concedes that it wo n't recoup all its market-share losses in Japan until at least 1995 , and even that timetable might prove optimistic . 
`` Everyone else is going to catch up '' with Nissan 's innovative designs , says A. Rama Krishna , auto analyst at First Boston -LRB- Japan -RRB- Ltd . 
Why ? 
So far , Nissan 's new-model successes are mostly specialized vehicles with limited sales potential . 
Nissan hopes that that will start to change this fall , with its new version of the Stanza compact sedan . 
Nissan instead has kept its new Stanza a bit smaller than that and cut the base price 6 % 
Nissan instead has kept its new Stanza a bit smaller than that and cut the base price 6 % ; at $ 11,450 , Stanza prices start $ 749 below the predecessor model yet have a more-powerful engine . 
Even if the new Stanza succeeds , Nissan will remain behind in the subcompact segment , where its Sentra does n't measure up to the Honda Civic and Toyota Corolla . 
Nissan started advertising Infiniti fully eight months before the cars hit American showrooms . 
The ads featured fences , rocks and pussy-willow buds -- almost anything but the cars themselves . 
On the other hand , Nissan 's sales goals for Infiniti are modest compared with Toyota 's targets for Lexus . 
Nissan will build only about 3,500 of the $ 38,000 Infiniti Q45 sedans each month , sending about 2,000 of them to the U.S. and keeping the rest for sale in Japan . 
But on reflection , Mr. Oka says , he concluded that Nissan is being prudent in following its slow-startup strategy instead of simply copying Lexus . 
`` Infiniti is Nissan 's big business move for the 21st century , and we 're in no hurry to generate large profits right away , '' Mr. Oka says . 
These days Nissan can afford that strategy , even though profits are n't exactly robust . 
Nissan had record net income of 114.63 billion yen -LRB- $ 868 million -RRB- in the fiscal year ended last March 31 , a remarkable recovery from the 20.39 billion yen of two years earlier , when the company lost money on operations . 
But Nissan expects to earn only 120 billion yen in the current fiscal year , a modest increase of 4.7 % . 
The big reason : For all its cost-cutting , Nissan remains less efficient than Toyota . 
In its last fiscal year , Nissan 's profit represented just 2.3 % of sales , compared with 4.3 % at Toyota . 
Nissan is the world 's only auto maker currently building vehicles in all three of the world 's key economic arenas -- the U.S. , Japan and Europe . 
`` We are in a transitional phase from being a Japanese company to becoming an international company based in Japan , '' says Mr. Muramatsu , the executive vice president . 
Perhaps the biggest challenge , however , will be to prevent a return to its former corporate rigidity as its recovery continues . 
Already , personnel officials are talking about the need for a `` Phase Two '' cultural-reform effort of some sort . 
Mr. Azoff resigned as head of MCA Records , a unit of MCA Inc. , in September , and had been discussing a joint venture with both Warner and MCA . 
Despite the informal nature of the session and the calculated effort to hold down expectations , the meeting could pay significant political dividends for both leaders . 
Mr. Gorbachev badly needs a diversion from the serious economic problems and ethnic unrest he faces at home . 
For his part , Mr. Bush has been criticized regularly at home for moving too slowly and cautiously in reacting to Mr. Gorbachev 's reforms and the historic moves away from communism in Eastern Europe . 
Mr. Bush said that the December meeting , which was announced simultaneously in Moscow , will be held in the unusual setting of ships at sea to hold down the `` fanfare '' and force the two sides to limit participation to just small groups of advisers . 
Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze , at a news conference in Moscow , said , `` As the two sides plan to hold a full-scale summit in late spring-early summer next year , they found it useful , I would say even necessary , to hold an interim informal meeting . '' 
The president specifically mentioned U.S. economic advice to Moscow as a possible topic . 
Mr. Gorbachev has for months been publicly urging the U.S. to drop its restrictions on Soviet trade . 
He recently told a small group of American businessmen in Moscow that he hoped to sign a general trade agreement with the U.S. , possibly at the 1990 summit . 
In an unusually candid article about the latest economic woe -- unemployment -- Pravda yesterday reported that three million Soviets have lost their jobs as a result of perestroika and the number could grow to 16 million by the year 2005 . 
`` Do n't take this as some big opening for major movement on economic cooperation , or arms control , or the environment , '' he said . 
Instead , this official said , `` This is vintage George Bush . 
This was George Bush 's own idea . 
Aside from the Soviet economic plight and talks on cutting strategic and chemical arms , one other issue the Soviets are likely to want to raise is naval force reductions . 
That theme has been a recurring one for Soviet military officials for much of this year . 
One of the reasons Bush administration aides are anxious to insist that the coming meeting will be informal is to avoid comparisons with the last such loosely structured superpower gathering , former President Reagan 's 1986 meeting with Mr. Gorbachev in Reykjavik , Iceland . 
Though President Bush 's political critics at home have been urging him to open a more direct dialogue with Mr. Gorbachev , it actually was the arguments of leaders within the Soviet bloc itself that led the president to seek the December meeting . 
Mr. Bush decided he wanted the meeting after talking in Europe in July with the leaders of Poland and Hungary , who urged him to support Mr. Gorbachev 's efforts to transform the Soviet system and to urge him to loosen his grip on Eastern Europe , a senior aide said . 
BNL previously reported that its Georgia branch had taken on loan commitments topping $ 3 billion without the Rome-based management 's approval . 
BNL also said that its board had approved `` after an in-depth discussion , '' a letter to the Bank of Italy outlining measures the state-owned bank has taken or plans to take to improve controls on its foreign branches . 
Hardly a day passes without news photos of the police dragging limp protesters from some building or thoroughfare in one of our cities . 
Maybe he did n't start it , but Mohandas Gandhi certainly provided a recognizable beginning to non-violent civil disobedience as we know it today . 
The Mahatma , or `` great souled one , '' instigated several campaigns of passive resistance against the British government in India . 
Unfortunately , according to Webster 's Biographical Dictionary , `` His policies went beyond his control and resulted ... in riots and disturbances '' and later a renewed campaign of civil disobedience `` resulted in rioting and a second imprisonment . '' 
It is difficult , however , to justify civil disobedience , non-violent or not , where citizens have full recourse to the ballot box to effect change . 
Where truly representative governments are safeguarded by constitutional protections of human rights and an independent judiciary to construe those rights , there is no excuse for breaking the law because some individual or group disagrees with it . 
There may be a few cases where the law breaking is well pinpointed and so completely non-invasive of the rights of others that it is difficult to criticize it . 
The public has a tendency to equate lawful demonstrations with non-violent civil disobedience . 
It is true that both are non-violent , but there is a fundamental difference between them . 
Lawful demonstrations , such as peaceful picketing and other assemblages that do not disturb the peace or cause a public nuisance or interfere with the rights of others , are rights guaranteed by any truly free system of government . 
The subject of this discussion is non-violent civil disobedience ; but , before we get on with that , let me make just a few tangential remarks about lawful demonstrations . 
They are useful to call public attention to grievances , but they have little value in educating anyone about the issues in dispute . 
The delight of television in dramatic confrontation encourages overuse of slogans chanted through bullhorns , militant gestures , accusatory signs and other emotionally inspired tactics . 
At best , demonstrations are overused and boringly uninformative 
Demonstrations are particularly apt to degenerate into criminal conduct when they leave the site of the grievance and become mobile . 
Petty criminals and street people looking for excitement attach themselves like remora to the fringes of the crowd and use the protest as an excuse for rock throwing , auto trashing , arson , window breaking , looting , pocket picking and general hooliganism . 
Soon the whole purpose of the demonstration is lost in mob mania . 
Where non-violent civil disobedience is the centerpiece , rather than a lawful demonstration that may only attract crime , it is difficult to justify . 
Some find no harm in the misdemeanors of trespass , minor property destruction , blocking traffic and the like . 
They say these are small prices to pay for galvanizing action for the all-important cause . 
Assume a neighborhood demonstration to protest speeding on a certain road or a careless accident involving a police car . 
The protesters lie down in the street , blocking traffic , and will not move until the authorities carry them away . 
Assume that someone caught in the jam has a heart attack . 
There is no way to get an ambulance in quickly to move him to a hospital . 
He dies . 
Assume that a TV network is airing a celebrity interview program with a live audience . 
The politician appearing is highly controversial and has recently generated a good deal of rancor amid certain groups . 
In a planned protest against his appearance , several members of the studio audience chain themselves in front of the TV cameras in such a way that the program can not continue . 
The network must refund money to the advertisers and loses considerable revenue and prestige . 
Or maybe the TV network would lose nothing . 
Geraldo or Phil would probably pull up another camera and interview the chained protesters . 
Let us look for a moment at another type of non-violent civil disobedience that only harms other people indirectly , yet does irreparable damage to the nation as a whole . 
I am referring to those young men who chose to disobey their country 's call to arms during the Vietnam war and fled to Canada or some other sanctuary to avoid combat . 
Even more at fault are those leaders in and out of government who urged and supported their defections , thereby giving great help and comfort to the enemy propagandists . 
It is amazing that the ensuing mass executions in Vietnam and Cambodia do not weight more heavily on minds so morally fine-tuned . 
Under the guise of `` healing the wounds of the nation , '' President Carter pardoned thousands of draft evaders , thus giving dignity to their allegations of the war 's `` immorality . '' 
Finally , I think it important to point out the extraordinarily high visibility of non-violent civil disobedience in these days of intensive media coverage . 
Give television a chance to cover live any breaking of the law , and no second invitation will be required . 
This brings into question the motives of those who lead civil disobedience demonstrations . 
Here is a good rule of thumb : If the movement produced the leader , the chance that he is sincere is much greater than if the leader produced the movement . 
In either case , ask yourself whether you have become better informed on the issues under protest by watching the act of civil disobedience . 
The tax increase , which will be considered at a special session of the state legislature that begins tomorrow , would cover only part of the estimated $ 4 billion to $ 6 billion in total damage caused by the Oct. 17 quake . 
The sales-tax plan was preferred over an alternative that would have boosted the state gasoline tax . 
The consumer-products and newsprint company said net rose to $ 108.8 million , or $ 1.35 a share , from $ 90.5 million , or $ 1.12 a share , a year ago . 
After a flat second quarter tied largely to lower newsprint earnings , Kimberly-Clark attributed the gain to improved results in its consumer businesses in North America , Brazil and Korea . 
Those gains came from higher prices , particularly for disposable diapers and tissue products , and from increased sales , primarily for feminine-care products , the company said . 
In the first nine months , profit rose 10 % to $ 313.2 million , or $ 3.89 a share , from $ 283.9 million , or $ 3.53 a share . 
The 1988-return project starts Jan. 1 and is to be done by May 31 , 1991 . 
The agents will make more than routine inquiries about such items as marital status and dependents 
But they also are to see that taxpayers get all allowable tax benefits and to ask if filers who sought IRS aid were satisfied with it . 
Sen. Pryor -LRB- D. , Ark. -RRB- , a leader on the issue who generally backs the House plan , wants some changes -- for one , separate sanctions for negligence and large misstatements of tax owed , not a single penalty . 
He would ease the proposed penalties for delayed payroll-tax deposits and for faulty Form 1099 and other reports that taxpayers correct voluntarily . 
The 1988 tax act created a federal bill of rights spelling out IRS duties to protect taxpayers ' rights in the assessment and collection of taxes . 
States are following suit . 
California enacted a rights law in 1988 . 
In 1989 , Illinois , Kansas , Ohio , Oregon and South Carolina have adopted rights laws 
One group is the Committee on State Taxation , which comprises 330 multistate corporations and advises the Council of State Chambers of Commerce . 
THE MILEAGE RATE allowed for business use of a car in 1989 has risen to 25.5 cents a mile for the first 15,000 from 24 cents in 1988 
HUGO FELLED vast timberlands . 
But it 's rare to see both functions in one case . 
Charles O. Givens of Mount Vernon , Ind. - investment broker , ex-accountant , and son of a former stable owner - bred Tennessee Walking Horses for six years , raised cattle for four , and never made a profit on either . 
Special Judge Galloway noted that Givens managed horse-breeding in a businesslike way 
Yet he took little businesslike care with his cattle 
It 's unclear whether Eastern will succeed in overturning the arbitrator 's decision , made in a long-simmering `` pay parity '' dispute that predates both the carrier 's Chapter 11 petition and its 1986 acquisition by Texas Air . 
Bankruptcy experts said the law is n't clear on how such an arbitration ruling can affect a company 's case . 
In a statement to employees , Eastern said the company was disappointed by the ruling . 
James Linsey , a lawyer for the Air Line Pilots Association , said the pilots were extremely pleased . 
Eastern and its creditors are in the final , delicate stages of negotiating a second reorganization plan to pay off the airline 's debts . 
The dispute between Eastern and its pilots is over a `` pay parity '' clause in the pilots ' contract . 
Shortly after Texas Air took control of Eastern , some Machinists union supervisors received a 20 % pay raise . 
The pilots argued that this triggered a pay raise for them . 
The two sides do n't even agree about how much money is at issue . 
Ironically , many of the pilots involved have left Eastern or are still striking the carrier , which filed for bankruptcy protection March 9 . 
Few people in the advertising business have raised as many hackles as Alvin A. Achenbaum . 
The general public may not know his name , but he 's famous -- make that infamous -- in advertising circles 
Now , after beating them , Mr. Achenbaum is joining them . 
In years past , the ad industry 's most distinguished executives did n't hesitate to excorciate Mr. Achenbaum . 
But industry executives also believe hiring Mr. Achenbaum is a shrewd move for Backer Spielvogel , a unit of Saatchi & Saatchi . 
At Backer Spielvogel , he will work with clients and potential clients on marketing strategies 
His client contacts , meanwhile , could prove a gold mine for an agency that has had few new business wins of late . 
`` I 've done over 40 ad agency searches -LCB- for clients -RCB- , so I have a pretty good notion of what clients are interested in when they look for an agency , '' Mr. Achenbaum said . 
At Backer Spielvogel , Mr. Spielvogel 's hallmark has been personal involvement with all major clients . 
He pampers them 
He pampers them ; he invites them to fabulous parties 
He pampers them ; he invites them to fabulous parties ; he strokes them . 
Mr. Achenbaum , too , delves into his clients ' business . 
Mr. Achenbaum 's move follows the announcement last month that his consulting partner , Stanley Canter , 66 , would retire . 
Ad agencies typically earned a straight 15 % commission 
But Mr. Achenbaum pioneered negotiated fees , which often worked out to less than 15 % . 
He ultimately became so well-known for cutting compensation , however , that clients did n't seek him out for anything else . 
`` I was very frustrated , '' he said . 
`` The fact of the matter is , I am a marketer . 
That 's another reason -LCB- for the Backer Spielvogel job -RCB- . 
Mr. Spielvogel said Mr. Achenbaum will work with clients to determine the mix of promotion , merchandising , publicity and other marketing outlets , and to integrate those services . 
He will concentrate on , among others , J.P. Morgan and Hyundai . 
`` The trail of revenue is increasingly going away from pure advertising , and going towards other services , '' Mr. Spielvogel said . 
Instead of being just an ad agency , he said : `` We have redefined our mission here . 
Industry executives are wishing Mr. Achenbaum well . 
Leonard Matthews , then-president of the American Association of Advertising Agencies , called Mr. Achenbaum a `` quisling '' in an incendiary 1987 speech . 
J. Nicholas Hahn , Cotton Inc. 's president and chief executive , was an outspoken critic of WPP Group 's acquisition of Ogilvy Group earlier this year . 
The campaign replaces its `` Take Comfort in Cotton '' ads and marks the end of its national cooperative advertising efforts . 
With the new TV spots , Ogilvy & Mather has opted for a family style with lots of laughter , hugs and tears . 
Omnicom Group Inc. , New York , reported third-quarter net income rose 54 % to $ 5.6 million , or 22 cents a share , from $ 3.6 million , or 15 cents a share , a year earlier . 
The interview did not touch on Singapore 's domestic affairs . 
On China 's turmoil : `` It is a very unhappy scene , '' he said . 
`` It took Zhao Ziyang -LRB- former premier and party chief -RRB- 10 years to build a team of economists who understood how the Western economies work and now that team is part in exile , part being rusticated and part missing . '' 
Rebuilding that team , Mr. Lee predicted , will take another 10 years . 
On similarities between China and the Soviet Union : `` In important particulars , the Soviets are different from the Chinese . 
They are already industrialized ... . 
Their problem is one of inefficiency of an industrial economy . 
Asked if the Soviets , like Chinese officials , wo n't one day face a similar conflict between the desire to liberalize economically and yet retain political control , Mr. Lee said , `` I would think that the Soviets face a deeper dilemma because they have been more in blinkers than the Chinese -- I mean keeping their people cut off from the outside world . '' 
On Asia-Pacific prosperity : `` If America can keep up the present situation -- her markets open for another 15 years , with adjustments , and Japan can grow and not cut back , and so too , Korea , Taiwan , Hong Kong , Singapore , ASEAN , Australia and New Zealand -- then in 15 years , the economies of these countries would be totally restructured to be able to almost sustain growth by themselves . '' 
`` And if the Europeans come in , they benefit too . 
Asked about the possibility of greater economic cooperation among Asia-Pacific nations , which will be discussed Nov. 6 and 7 at a ministerial meeting in Canberra , Mr. Lee said the goal `` is to have a free and open world trading system . '' 
An Asian bloc is n't intended , he said . 
On U.S.-Japan relations : `` I 'm encouraged . 
I think the earlier strident notes struck by -LCB- U.S. Commerce Secretary Robert -RCB- Mosbacher and -LCB- U.S. Trade Representative -RCB- Carla Hills have been more rounded . 
I believe the U.S. is becoming more patient and circumspect , '' he said . 
Japan 's recent political turbulence , Mr. Lee said , may mean Japan will slow market adjustments . 
On U.S. military presence in Asia : Asked if his offer to allow the American military to use facilities in Singapore would help preserve America 's presence in the region at bases in the Philippines , he said , `` What we have done is make it easier for the Philippines to continue to host American bases without it being said they are lackeys of the imperialists and the only ones in Asia or in Southeast Asia . 
We are willing to share the political burden of being host to America , an imperial power . 
On U.S.-Philippine relations : `` It 's such a mixed-up relationship going back into history ... . 
I really do not understand how it is that Filipinos feel so passionately involved in this father figure that they want to dispose of and yet they need . 
I just do n't understand it . 
My relationships with the British are totally different . 
They lorded it over me . 
They did me some good . 
They did themselves even more good . 
They let me down when the Japanese came down -LCB- during World War II -RCB- ... . 
I do n't feel down or done in because I show British serials on my television network or read their books . 
`` But the Filipinos and the Americans , when I talk to them , there 's so much passion about Filipino manhood being diminished as a result of being squatted upon by the Americans and so on . 
The occasional Englishman tries to put on airs but we let it pass ... . 
On military alternatives if the U.S. pulls back : `` The Soviets already are present . 
I suppose sooner or later , the Japanese would have to fill up a large part of the gap on the naval side . 
On Cambodia : `` Let 's assume that -LCB- former Cambodian leader Prince Norodom -RCB- Sihanouk does what the press wants him to do and joins up with -LCB- Vietnamese-backed Cambodian leader -RCB- Hun Sen . 
Is the trouble over ? 
Can Sihanouk and Hun Sen knock off the Khmer Rouge still supported by China ? 
`` What is the way forward ? 
And when they lose , then we can expect China to stop aid . 
Let 's put it bluntly . 
Ms. House is vice president of Dow Jones International Group . 
Using small electrical shocks applied to her feet , they were able to monitor sensory nerves . 
The damage was to her motor nerves , which could n't be monitored along with the sensory nerves , he explains . 
Dr. Levy 's answer may come with a new kind of magnetic brain probe , a device that he and dozens of U.S. researchers are studying with great hope . 
Besides holding the promise of safer spinal surgery , the probe could improve the diagnosis of brain and nerve disorders such as strokes and multiple sclerosis . 
The probe , which is painless , non-invasive and apparently harmless , employs strong magnetic fields to induce small whirlwinds of electricity within the brain . 
If positioned over the brain 's motor-control area , the hand-held electromagnets generate nerve impulses that zip down motor nerves and activate muscles , making , say , a finger twitch . 
`` Until now , we 've had no objective way of measuring motor function , '' says Keith Chiappa , a neurologist conducting clinical tests with the devices at Boston 's Massachusetts General Hospital . 
`` All we could do was tell a patient , ` squeeze my fingers as hard as you can ' or ` raise your arm . ' 
`` Under the best circumstances such tests are subjective 
Magnetic brain tweaking started in the early 1900s , when researchers produced flashes of light in the visual field with magnets . 
Since then , at least two commercial versions have been put on the U.S. market , and an estimated 500 have been sold . 
`` We do n't feel we can use -LCB- the devices -RCB- routinely in surgery yet , but we 're getting close , '' says Dr. Levy , who is now with the University of Pittsburgh . 
The main sensation , besides feeling like a puppet jerked with invisible strings , is `` like a rap on the head , '' says Sam Bridgers , a neurologist who has studied the brain stimulators at Yale University . 
At least two companies , Cadwell Laboratories Inc. of Kennewick , Wash. , and Novametrix Medical Systems Inc. of Wallingford , Conn. , now sell versions of the magnetic devices . 
The machines , which at $ 12,500 are inexpensive by medical standards , have n't been approved in the U.S. for marketing as brain stimulators but are sold for stimulating nerves in the hand , legs and other non-brain areas . 
Similarly , a Purdue University team led by heart researcher W.A. Tacker hopes to develop ways to magnetically induce cardiac muscle contractions . 
The devices ' most remarkable possibilities , though , involve the brain . 
Probing with the stimulators , National Institutes of Health scientists recently showed how the brain reorganizes motor-control resources after an amputation . 
Scientists also are exploring memory and perception with the new machines . 
At the State University of New York at Brooklyn , researchers flash two groups of different letters on a computer screen in front of human guinea pigs . 
`` Where does that first stimulus go ? '' exclaims SUNY neurologist Paul Maccabee . 
The Wilmington , Del. , chemicals concern previously signed research superconductor agreements with Oak Ridge National Laboratory and with Argonne National Laboratory . 
J.C. PENNEY Co. , Dallas , said it issued $ 350 million of securities backed by credit-card receivables . 
As part of the transaction , J.C. Penney will sell a portion of its credit-card receivables to its JCP Receivables Inc. unit , which will then transfer them to a master trust . 
Here in this new center for Japanese assembly plants just across the border from San Diego , turnover is dizzying , infrastructure shoddy , bureaucracy intense . 
Even after-hours drag 
Still , 20 Japanese companies , including giants such as Sanyo Industries Corp. , Matsushita Electronics Components Corp. and Sony Corp. have set up shop in the state of Northern Baja California . 
But the two countries remain separated by a cultural barrier wider than the ocean . 
Conservative Japanese investors are put off by what they consider Mexico 's restrictive investment regulations and loose work habits . 
Mexican President Carlos Salinas de Gortari would like to change that . 
The young president so admires Japanese discipline that he sends his children to a Japanese school in Mexico City . 
But Mexico urgently needs more help . 
But maintaining the key components of his strategy -- a stable exchange rate and high level of imports -- will consume enormous amounts of foreign exchange . 
The problem is that Japanese businesses make decisions with a view well beyond the coming months that weigh so heavily on Mr. Salinas . 
`` The Japanese will come to Mexico , but not immediately , '' says Kazushige Suzuki , director-general of the Japanese External Trade Organization in Mexico . 
If not now , when ? 
Pressed on the matter , he is more specific . 
Ryukichi Imai , Japan 's ambassador to Mexico , agrees that Mexico may be too eager . 
`` There seems to be a presumption in some sectors of -LRB- Mexico 's -RRB- government that there is a lot of Japanese money waiting behind the gate , and that by slightly opening the gate , that money will enter Mexico . 
Mexican officials maintain the Japanese reserve is only a result of unfamiliarity . 
Mexico is sending a number of missions to Japan looking for a major breakthrough investment in telecommunications , petrochemicals or tourism . 
But Japanese investors say that their reluctance to invest stems not only from concerns about Mexico 's economic outlook , but also reservations about Mexico 's recently revamped investment law . 
Unable to get a new law through a congress with a strong leftist bloc , Mexico jury-rigged the existing law 's regulations . 
`` Those devices do n't give sufficient certainty to our bosses in Japan , '' says Yasuo Nakamura , representative of the Industrial Bank of Japan . 
Most of the 10 analysts polled last week by Dow Jones International News Service in Frankfurt , Tokyo , London and New York expect the U.S. dollar to ease only mildly in November . 
Opinion is mixed over its three-month prospects . 
In late afternoon New York trading yesterday , the dollar stood at 1.8415 West German marks , up from 1.8340 marks late Monday , and at 142.85 yen , up from 141.90 yen late Monday . 
By late January , the consensus calls for the dollar to be trading around 1.8200 marks and near 142 yen . 
Bolstering his argument , the Commerce Department reported yesterday that new home sales for September were down 14 % from August 's revised 3.1 % fall . 
Indeed , in early October the West German central bank raised its discount and Lombard rates by a full percentage point . 
Mr. Kakita said the key dollar-yen exchange rate is at 135 yen . 
Jens-Uwe Fischer , a senior trader at Manufacturers Hanover Trust Co. in Frankfurt , said he expects the dollar to recover within the next three months to around 1.88 marks as U.S. economic data , particularly U.S. trade figures , level off . 
Alfred Zapfel , chief trader at Bank of Boston in Frankfurt , took an opposite stance . 
He said he expects U.S. interest rates to decline , dragging the dollar down to around 1.80 marks by the end of January after a short-lived dash to 1.87 marks by the end of November . 
`` But I 'm not one of these great dollar bears you see more of these days , '' Mr. Zapfel said . 
Scott Greene , chief foreign exchange dealer with Julius Baer & Co. in New York , fits the description of a `` great dollar bear . '' 
Earlier this year , President Bush made a final `` take-it-or-leave it '' offer on the minimum wage : an increase to $ 4.25 an hour over three years , and only if accompanied by a lower wage for the first six months of a job . 
Now , the White House has decided to accept the higher wage over only two years . 
The White House had enough votes to sustain a veto but chose to avoid a confrontation . 
The only permanent losers will be the 200,000 or so workers everyone agrees will be priced out of a job at the $ 4.25 rate Congress is likely to approve today . 
A separate inquiry by Chemical cleared Mr. Edelson of allegations that he had been lavishly entertained by a New York money broker . 
A Chemical spokeswoman said the second-quarter charge was `` not material '' and that no personnel changes were made as a result . 
These complex products require close monitoring because each must be valued separately in light of current market conditions . 
In an interest-rate options contract , a client pays a fee to a bank for custom-tailored protection against adverse interest-rate swings for a specified period . 
Started three years ago , Chemical 's interest-rate options group was a leading force in the field . 
From 1987 to 1988 , the value of Chemical 's option contracts outstanding mushroomed to $ 37 billion from $ 17 billion . 
More importantly , the volume of options written exceeded those purchased by almost 2-to-1 . 
`` We consider our internal controls to have worked well , '' she said , adding that some procedures have been strengthened . 
Its valuation methodologies , she said , `` are recognized as some of the best on the Street . 
The missing watch is emblematic of the problems Mr. Wathen encountered in building his closely held California Plant Protection Security Service into the largest detective and security agency in the U.S. through acquisitions . 
Mr. Wathen , who started his career as an Air Force investigator and worked as a security officer for several large companies , built his California Plant Protection from a tiny mom-and-pop security patrol firm here in the San Fernando Valley . 
He decided he could easily merge Pinkerton 's operations with his own while slashing overhead costs because the two already operated in many of the same cities . 
`` The security business is my favorite subject . 
I love this business , '' he says . 
But there were hitches , not the least of which was that , Mr. Wathen says , he proceeded almost blindly in doing the $ 95 million acquisition , which was completed in January 1988 . 
`` We were n't allowed to do any due diligence because of competitive reasons . 
Five years of rapid expansion under American Brands , with an emphasis on marketing the agency 's services instead of improving them , had hurt Pinkerton 's profits , Mr. Wathen claims . 
He says his team could n't tell whether accounts receivable had been paid or not . 
And regional offices were `` egregiously overstaffed , '' he claims . 
Mr. Wathen says his turnaround strategy has been simple : just hack away at the fat . 
He began by closing 120 of the combined companies ' 260 offices in two months , eliminating about 31 % of the company 's 2,500-person adminstrative staff , including more than 100 sales positions . 
But Mr. Wathen 's team still must pay down about $ 82 million of long-term bank debt from the acquisition within the next four years . 
Last year , earnings of the combined companies did n't cover debt service and Pinkerton 's was forced to borrow $ 20 million of subordinated debt . 
`` We would n't have had to refinance if a lot of the problems had n't been there , '' Mr. Wathen says . 
Now Pinkerton 's could become entangled in a protracted legal fracas with its former parent . 
The lawsuit alleges that an inventory of Pinkerton 's memorabilia disclosed that one of the watches had n't been forked over by American Brands . 
American Brands `` just had a different approach , '' Mr. Wathen says . 
Broiler prices fell 6.5 cents in October to 30.6 cents a pound , while turkey prices rose 1.2 cents a pound to 38.5 cents . 
Paramount , which agreed to sell the unit in July , said it would realize net proceeds from the sale of $ 2.6 billion , with an after-tax gain of $ 1.2 billion . 
Describing itself as `` asset rich , '' Sea Containers said it will move immediately to sell two ports , various ferries , ferry services , containers , and other investments . 
Of the proceeds , $ 500 million will be used to fund its tender offer . 
The company , which has 13.8 million common shares outstanding , said in mid-June that it was considering a restructuring to ward off a hostile takeover attempt by two European shipping concerns . 
In late May , Stena Holding AG and Tiphook PLC , launched a $ 50-a-share , or $ 777 million , tender offer for the Hamilton , Bermuda-based Sea Containers . 
Walter Kirchberger , an analyst with PaineWebber Inc. , said that offering holders a higher , $ 70-a-share price is `` a fairly effective method of blocking '' the Stena-Tiphook bid . 
For holders who decide not to tender their shares , Sea Containers will issue one share of preferred stock with a stated value of $ 25 , plus a cash dividend on the common stock . 
The company said the court has indicated it will make a decision on or about Nov. 27 . 
You 'd think all the stories about well-heeled communities and developers getting HUD grants would prompt Congress to tighten up on upscale housing subsidies . 
No way . 
Congress has just made it easier for the affluent to qualify for insured loans from the deficit-ridden Federal Housing Administration . 
Right now , the largest loan the FHA can insure in high-cost housing markets is $ 101,250 . 
But it does that at the cost of deepening the taxpayer 's exposure if the FHA is forced to pay for more loans going sour . 
But the higher mortgage ceiling is only the starter kit for what Senator Alan Cranston and Majority Leader George Mitchell have in mind for housing . 
The Senate Banking Committee will begin hearings next week on their proposal to expand existing federal housing programs . 
That would be a formula for ensuring even more FHA red ink . 
Because a purchaser can use an FHA loan to finance all points and closing costs , the FHA can wind up lending more than a house is worth . 
If housing prices continue to fall , many borrowers would be better off walking away from their homes and leaving taxpayers with the losses . 
We hear that HUD Secretary Jack Kemp is toying with going along with some of the Cranston-Mitchell proposals . 
That sounds like a formula for ensuring that he gets dragged into the next HUD tar pit . 
Exhibit A is last week 's House vote to fund 40 pet projects out of the same discretionary fund that is at the heart of the HUD scandal . 
More and more observers now realize that the key to ending future HUD scandals lies in forcing Congress to clean up its own act . 
The Sun concluded that Mr. Pierce is only part of the problem -- and a part that 's gone . 
Of course , self-reform is about the last thing this Congress is interested in . 
Proponents of expanding FHA programs say they merely want to help home buyers who are frozen out of high-priced markets . But the FHA program is hemorrhaging bad loans . 
Jack Kemp has submitted a package of reforms , and they are surely headed for the Capitol Hill sausage-grinder . 
Gillette Co. , Boston , said it is planning to restructure its South African subsidiary . 
The company said it is part of a continuing world-wide restructuring in which it has downsized or sold operations in several countries . 
But often nothing 's resolved , To my frustration and fury 
In the third quarter , the company , which is 61%-owned by Murphy Oil Corp. of Arkansas , had a net loss of $ 46.9 million , or 91 cents a share , compared with a restated loss of $ 9 million , or 18 cents a share , a year ago . 
The latest period had profit from continuing operations of $ 4 million . 
Corporate leaders , frustrated by double-digit increases in health-care costs , are beginning to sound like liberal Democrats . 
The pocketbook impact of health benefits has driven business and labor to a surprising consensus . 
But there are signs that labor-management cooperation could change the politics of health-care legislation and the economics of medicine . 
`` Business across the country is spending more time addressing this issue , '' says Sen. Edward Kennedy -LRB- D. , Mass . -RRB- . 
`` It 's a bottom-line issue . '' 
Business complained earlier this year when Sen. Kennedy introduced a bill that would require employers to provide a minimum level of health insurance to workers but does n't contain cost-control measures . 
Partly in response , a bipartisan group of senators from the finance and labor committees is drafting a plan to attract broader support . 
At 11.1 % of gross national product , U.S. health costs already are the highest in the world . By contrast , Japan 's equal 6.7 % of GNP , a nation 's total output of goods and services . 
Chrysler Corp. estimates that health costs add $ 700 to the price of each of its cars , about $ 300 to $ 500 more per car than foreign competitors pay for health . 
Labor is upset because many companies are using higher employee insurance premiums , deductibles and co-payments to deflect surging medical costs to workers . 
Health benefits are contentious issues in the strikes against Pittston Co. and Nynex Corp . 
Some analysts are cynical about the new corporate interest in health-care overhaul . 
Carl Schramm , president of the Health Insurance Association of America , scoffs at `` capitalists who want to socialize the entire financing system '' for health . 
`` They hope they can buy some government cost discipline , '' but this is a false hope , Mr. Schramm says . 
So far neither the Bush administration nor Congress is prepared to lead the way toward revamping health care . 
The administration lacks a comprehensive health-care policy . 
A bipartisan commission established by Congress and headed by Sen. John Rockefeller -LRB- D. , W.Va . -RRB- is scheduled to present new plans for dealing with the uninsured and long-term care for the elderly by next March 1 . 
But 1991 could be a window for action . 
The pressure for change will rise with costs . 
The NAM embraces efforts , which both the administration and the medical profession have begun , to measure the effectiveness of medical treatments and then to draft medical-practice guidelines . 
Advocates hope that such standards will improve treatment while limiting unnecessary tests and medical procedures . 
Limiting care wo n't be easy or popular . 
`` To slow the rise in total spending , it will be necessary to reduce per-capita use of services , '' the NAM warns in a policy statement . 
This will `` require us to define -- and redefine -- what is ` necessary ' or ` appropriate ' care . 
Stelco said it has an option to lease a 350,000-square-foot building in Brantford and proposes to spend 24.5 million Canadian dollars -LRB- US$ 20.9 million -RRB- on the facility . 
T. Marshall Hahn Jr. , Georgia-Pacific 's chairman and chief executive , said in an interview that all terms of the offer are negotiable . 
Yesterday , Nekoosa common closed in composite New York Stock Exchange trading at $ 62.875 , up $ 20.125 , on volume of almost 6.3 million shares . 
For the paper industry specifically , most analysts said the deal will spur a wave of paper-company takeovers , possibly involving such companies as Union Camp Corp. , Federal Paperboard Co. and Mead Corp . 
`` Consolidation has been long overdue . 
It was just the culture of the industry that kept it from happening . 
The Georgia-Pacific offer has definitely changed the landscape , '' said Gary Palmero of Oppenheimer & Co . 
A Georgia-Pacific acquisition of Nekoosa would create the largest U.S. forest-products company . 
Based on 1988 sales , Georgia-Pacific ranked third at $ 9.51 billion , behind Weyerhaeuser Co. at $ 10 billion and International Paper Co. at $ 9.53 billion . 
Based on 1988 sales , Georgia-Pacific ranked third at $ 9.51 billion , behind Weyerhaeuser Co. at $ 10 billion and International Paper Co. at $ 9.53 billion . Nekoosa ranked 11th with sales of $ 3.59 billion . 
But such a combination also presents great risks . 
`` Nobody knows how deep the cycle is going to be , '' said Rod Young , vice president of Resource Information Systems Inc. , a Bedford , Mass. , economic-forecasting firm . 
Georgia-Pacific 's Mr. Hahn said that a combined operation would allow savings in many ways . 
The two companies each produce market pulp , containerboard and white paper . 
But he said that even under those conditions , the company still would realize a savings of tens of millions of dollars in the first year following a merger . 
People familiar with Nekoosa said its board is n't likely to meet before the week after next to respond to the bid . 
In addition to the usual array of defenses , including a so-called poison pill and a staggered board , Nekoosa has another takeover defense : a Maine state law barring hostile bidders from merging acquired businesses for five years . 
Among companies mentioned by analysts as possible counterbidders for Nekoosa are International Paper , Weyerhaeuser , Canadian Pacific Ltd. and MacMillan Bloedel Ltd . 
International Paper and Weyerhaeuser declined to comment . 
Investors were quick to spot other potential takeover candidates , all of which have strong cash flows and low-cost operations . 
Among paper company stocks that rallied on the Big Board because of the offer were Union Camp , up $ 2.75 to $ 37.75 , Federal Paperboard , up $ 1.75 to $ 27.875 , Mead , up $ 2.375 to $ 38.75 , and Temple Inland Inc. , up $ 3.75 to $ 62.25 . 
`` I do n't think anyone is now immune from takeover , '' said Robert Schneider of Duff & Phelps Inc. , Chicago . 
Prudential-Bache 's Mr. Rodgers said he does n't see the industry 's capacity-expansion program hindering takeover activity . 
Indeed , a number of analysts said that Japanese paper companies are hungry to acquire additional manufacturing capacity anywhere in the world . 
`` One would have thought this would have happened two or three years ago as the labor market tightened . 
The new data underscored the severity of the nation 's health-care cost problem . 
In the 12 months ended in September , wages and salaries of private-sector workers rose 4.4 % , while health insurance costs spurted by 13.7 % . 
Despite the big increases in health-care costs , wages still account for a far greater share of overall labor costs . 
For the past five years , unions have n't managed to win wage increases as large as those granted to nonunion workers . 
For private-sector union workers , the cost of wages and benefits rose 0.9 % in the third quarter . 
Including employees of state and local -- but not the federal -- governments , the employment cost index rose 1.6 % in the third quarter , compared with a 1.3 % rise in the same quarter in 1988 . 
For the 12 months ended in September , this index was up 5.1 % . 
However , StatesWest is n't abandoning its pursuit of the much-larger Mesa . 
StatesWest serves 10 cities in California , Arizona and Nevada . 
The dollar drew strength from the stock market 's climb . 
Analysts said the offer for Great Northern Nekoosa broke the pall that settled over the takeover business for the past three weeks in the wake of the collapsed UAL Corp . buy-out . 
Great Northern Nekoosa soared $ 20.125 a share , to $ 62.875 , substantially above the $ 58 a share Georgia-Pacific is offering . 
That indicates speculators are betting a higher offer is in the wings . 
Despite all the furor over program trading , program trading played a big role in yesterday 's rally . 
Some traders point out that as the big brokerage firms back out of program trading for their own accounts or for clients , opportunities increase for others to engage in the controversial practice . 
The rally notwithstanding , there are plenty of worries about the short-term course of stock prices . 
A slowing economy and its effect on corporate earnings is the foremost concern of many traders and analysts . 
A report late yesterday that the Chicago-area purchasing managers survey showed increased economic activity in that part of the country cut into bond-price gains . 
Meanwhile , bond investors are laboring under the onus of a national debt ceiling debate . 
Stock prices rallied in active trading . 
Stock prices rallied in active trading . Volume on the New York Stock Exchange totaled 176.1 million shares . 
Bond prices rose . 
The Treasury 's benchmark 30-year bond gained less than a quarter of a point , or less than $ 2.50 for each $ 1,000 of face amount . 
The dollar gained against most foreign currencies . 
For all of 1988 , Bouygues had consolidated profit of 519 million francs , after payments to minority interests , on revenue of 50 billion francs . 
The Los Angeles thrift holding company said it had a loss of $ 92.2 million , or $ 6.98 a share , for the quarter ended Sept. 30 . 
The restructuring program is designed to increase the company 's tangible capital ratio . 
During the third quarter , the company charged about $ 46 million against earnings in reducing goodwill , added $ 20 million to its general loan loss reserves and established a $ 30 million reserve for its high-yield bond portfolio . 
The campaign , a patriotic celebration of the 200th anniversary of the Bill of Rights , does n't mention cigarettes or smoking 
Philip Morris , which became the U.S. 's largest food company last year with its $ 12.9 billion acquisition of Kraft Inc. , seems determined to evolve beyond its roots in Marlboro country . 
Philip Morris hopes that by taking its Bill of Rights theme to the airwaves , in addition to publications , it will reach the broadest possible audience . 
`` Most people -- whether in Toledo , Tucson or Topeka -- have n't got a clue who we are , '' says Guy L. Smith , Philip Morris 's vice president of corporate affairs . 
`` If they think well of the company through our support of the Bill of Rights , it follows they 'll think well of our products . '' 
Mr. Smith says the Bill of Rights commercial , which trumpets the themes of liberty and freedom of expression , is n't designed to have any special appeal for smokers . 
But some anti-smoking activists disagree , expressing anger at what they see as the company 's attempt to purchase innocence by association . 
`` I 'm outraged because this company is portraying itself at the heart of American culture and political freedom and in fact it 's a killer , '' says Michael Pertschuk , former chairman of the Federal Trade Commission and a tobacco-industry critic . 
Mr. Pertschuk adds that the new commercial dovetails perfectly with major aspects of Philip Morris 's political strategy . 
These include trying to protect its print advertising by invoking the First Amendment , and wooing blacks by portraying itself as a protector of civil rights . 
Many marketers say Philip Morris 's approach will be effective , but they agree that the ads ' implied smoking message is unmistakable . 
`` This is clever , subliminal advertising that really says , ` Smokers have rights , too , ' '' says Al Ries , chairman of Trout & Ries Inc. , a Greenwich , Conn. , marketing strategy firm . 
Richard Winger , a partner at Boston Consulting Group , adds : `` It 's very popular to drape yourself in the flag these days . 
Despite the criticism , Philip Morris 's corporate campaign runs little risk of getting yanked off the tube . 
`` They are n't showing James Madison taking a puff or lighting up , '' says Laurence Tribe , a professor of constitutional law at Harvard University . 
But the move lagged a stronger rise in New York Stock Exchange issues . 
Nasdaq 's gain was led by its biggest industrial stocks . 
The Nasdaq 100 rose 7.08 to 445.23 . 
The Financial Index of 100 biggest banks and insurance issues added 2.19 to 447.76 . 
Many of Nasdaq 's biggest technology stocks were in the forefront of the rally . 
Microsoft added 2 1\/8 to 81 3\/4 and Oracle Systems rose 1 1\/2 to 23 1\/4 . 
The technology group includes many of the OTC market 's biggest stocks , which dominate the market-weighted Nasdaq Composite Index . 
But increasing volatility in the sector has exhausted investors who try to follow its dips and swings . 
The stocks have been pummeled repeatedly by inventory gluts and disappointing earnings as the industry matures and slows . 
The technology sector of the Dow Jones Equity Market Index has risen only about 6.24 % this year , while the Nasdaq Composite Index has gained 18.35 % . 
The OTC technology sector is far from a cohesive unit . 
While computer stocks have taken the biggest hit from the slowdown in the industry , many software and semiconductor stocks have continued to outperform the market . 
The technology group is also split between large companies and small , with the biggest stocks trading as blue-chip issues in the institutional marketplace , while the smaller stocks churn on their individual merits or faults , analysts say . 
Yesterday , bank stocks lagged behind the overall OTC market . 
`` The interest-rate sensitives are n't rallying with the rest of the market because of fears about what the -LRB- Federal Reserve -RRB- will do , '' Mr. Jennison said . 
Shearson Lehman Hutton gave small investors some welcome news by announcing that it would no longer handle index-arbitrage-related program trades for its accounts . 
Britain said it would waive its `` golden share '' in the luxury auto maker if shareholders vote to allow a suitor to acquire more than 15 % of the company . 
Gen-Probe was another active takeover stock . 
MCI Communications added 1 1\/2 to 43 3\/8 . 
The company has toted up over $ 40 million in contracts in the past two days . 
Monday , MCI announced a $ 27 million multiyear contract with the investment bank Stuart-James . 
Florida National Banks of Fla. slid 1 1\/8 to 24 3\/4 . 
Late Monday , the Federal Reserve Board said it is delaying approval of First Union Corp. 's proposed $ 849 million acquisition of Florida National Banks pending the outcome of an examination into First Union 's lending practices in low-income heighborhoods . 
But yesterday 's action put to rest any lingering resistance from tobacco interests . 
But the bill still faces budget questions because it also is the vehicle for an estimated $ 3.1 billion in supplemental appropriations for law enforcement and anti-drug programs . 
The separate $ 67 billion bill sent to the White House had budget difficulties , too , but was saved ultimately by its importance to a broad spectrum of interests in Congress and the administration itself . 
Separately , the bill gives authority to the Department of Housing and Urban Development to facilitate the refinancing of high-interest loans subsidized by the government under the so-called Section 235 home-ownership program for lower-income families . 
The estimated $ 1.8 billion for the space station would be double last year 's level , and total appropriations for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration would grow 16 % to nearly $ 12.4 billion . 
Senior members of the House Budget Committee are reduced in frustration to raising doomed parliamentary obstacles to individual bills , yet admit that much of the disorder now stems from the fiscal legerdemain associated with their own summit agreement with the White House this past spring . 
Among the subsidies continued in the transportation bill is $ 30.7 million to maintain commercial air service for an estimated 92 communities , often in rural areas . 
The House action yesterday came as the Senate remained mired in difficulties over a $ 17.25 billion measure covering the budgets for the State , Commerce , and Justice departments in fiscal 1990 . 
The same jealousy can breed confusion , however , in the absence of any authorization bill this year . 
The Dallas oil and gas concern said that $ 10 million of the facility would be used to consolidate the company 's $ 8.1 million of existing bank debt , to repurchase 4 million of its 4.9 million shares outstanding of Series D convertible preferred stock , and to purchase a 10 % net-profits interest in certain oil and gas properties from one of its existing lenders , National Canada Corp . 
Ted Eubank , Coda 's president , said the loan carries an interest rate of prime plus one percentage point , with 85 % of the company 's net oil and gas revenue each month dedicated to repayment . 
Since the value of its assets was n't known , analysts were free to pick a number . 
In one of many rosy scenarios , Bear Stearns 's Gary Schneider wrote in March that its real estate alone had a value of $ 4.5 billion . 
That was another reason the Street loved Santa Fe . 
Santa Fe has disclosed that it is negotiating to sell a 20 % interest in its real estate unit to the California Public Employees Retirement System for roughly $ 400 million . 
`` The implied current net asset value of 22.70 -LCB- per share -RCB- is well below the 30 level that the Street believed , '' PaineWebber says . 
If the railroad is valued on a private market basis -- at the same multiple of earnings as in the recent sale of CNW -- it would have a value of $ 1.65 billion . 
But it is n't clear why that should be so . 
Some analysts remain bullish . 
Mr. Schneider of Bear Stearns says he is recalculating the worth of the company 's assets and , in the meantime , is sticking to his `` buy '' recommendation on the belief that he will find `` values '' of 30 a share . 
First Boston 's Graeme Anne Lidgerwood values Santa Fe at 24 , down from her earlier estimate of 29 . 
In other words : The real estate has a higher value than the pending deal suggests . 
Orkem , France 's third-largest chemical group , said it would fund the acquisition through internal resources . 
The takeover would be followed by a restructuring of Orkem 's U.K. unit , including the addition of related Orkem businesses and possibly further acquisitions . 
Mr. Edelman said the decision `` has nothing to do with Marty Ackerman . '' 
Profit after tax and minority interest but before extraordinary items rose 12 % to # 135.2 million 
Operating profit dropped 35 % , however , to # 3.8 million . 
Federal examiner Alex Barabolak said Lincoln 's operations amounted to `` pyramiding debt to provide a luxurious life style for its owners . '' 
`` I think there 's overwhelming evidence to indicate probable criminal activity , '' said Mr. Meek , who participated last year in an examination of the Irvine , Calif. , thrift . 
Richard Newsom , a California state official who last year examined Lincoln 's parent , American Continental Corp. , said he also saw evidence that crimes had been committed . 
`` It sure smells like it , '' he said . 
`` Those who testified -LCB- yesterday -RCB- have consistently maintained that anyone who did n't agree with them is part of a coverup , a whitewash , or the subject of excessive influence , '' Mr. Bickwit said . 
`` A couple of things Mr. Newsom said were at least misleading , '' said Kevin O'Connell , one of the Washington regulators responsible for the handling of Lincoln . 
`` Our response to the whitewash would simply be , look what happened , '' another Washington official , Alvin Smuzynski , said in an interview . 
Rep. Gonzalez has complained that regulators waited far too long , however , ignoring a recommendation from regional officials to place Lincoln into receivership two years before it failed . 
State thrift examiner Eugene Stelzer said he found the chief federal examiner Steve Scott to be totally uninterested in one allegedly fraudulent series of transactions . 
Mr. Meek said that a day or two before Lincoln 's parent entered bankruptcy proceedings , he and other examiners saw `` a truck with a sign on it that said it was from the ` Document Destruction Center . ' 
Mr. Meek said his suspicions were aroused by several foreign investments by Lincoln , including $ 22 million paid to Credit Suisse of Switzerland , an $ 18 million interest in Saudi European Bank in Paris , a $ 17.5 million investment in a Bahamas trading company , and a recently discovered holding in a Panama-based company , Southbrook Holdings . 
The big questions are whether the increase , effective Jan. 1 , 1990 , will stick , and whether other major steelmakers will follow suit . 
Major steel producers are selling cold rolled sheet steel at about $ 370 a ton , compared with a peak price of $ 520 a ton in 1988 . 
LTV confirmed the price-increase plan , saying the move is designed to more accurately reflect the value of products and to put steel on more equal footing with other commodities . 
Moreover , they note that LTV may be trying to send a signal to major customers , such as Chrysler Corp. and Whirlpool Corp. , that steelmakers need more money . 
`` They -LCB- LTV -RCB- may believe this can impact contract negotiations and is their signal to the world that now is the time to get tough on prices , '' said Peter Marcus , an analyst with PaineWebber Inc . 
It wo n't be clear for months whether the price increase will stick . 
Michael Rosen , president of Shop Television , said Penney decided to extend its involvement with the service for at least five years . 
Earlier this year , Penney abandoned another home shopping venture , Telaction Corp. , after investing $ 106 million in it . 
In 1953 , James Watson and his colleagues unlocked the double helix of DNA -LRB- deoxyribonucleic acid -RRB- , the genetic key to heredity . 
When Boyer met Robert Swanson , an M.I.T.-trained chemist-turned-entrepreneur in 1976 , they saw dollar signs . 
With $ 500 apiece and an injection of outside capital , they formed Genentech Inc . 
Genentech 's first product , a brain protein called somatostatin , proved its technology . 
Gene-splicing now is an integral part of the drug business . 
In addition to Unocal 's 153,000 barrel-a-day refinery near Lemont , Ill. , the new venture would control 17 distribution terminals , a lubricating-oil blending and packaging plant , and 131 company-owned Unocal service stations . 
Democrats want to avoid having to make that choice by making the capital-gains tax cut an individual bill . 
Both plans would drop child-care provisions from the House version of the deficit-reduction legislation and let it progress as a separate bill . 
Yesterday , Mr. Dole seemed weary of the Bush administration 's strategy of pushing the capital-gains measure at every chance in the face of Democratic procedural hurdles . 
At 12:01 a.m. EST today , the federal government 's temporary $ 2.87 trillion debt limit expired . 
Net sales for this year 's third quarter were $ 14 million , down from $ 21.4 million last year . 
Aside from the takeover news , big buy orders were placed for blue-chip shares in afternoon trading . 
Traders said the buy programs came from very large institutional accounts that were also active in the stock-index futures markets . 
Some 1,111 Big Board issues advanced in price and only 448 declined , while broader market averages rose sharply . 
Great Northern surged 20 1\/8 to 62 7\/8 , well above Georgia-Pacific 's offering price of $ 58 a share , amid speculation that other suitors for the company would surface or that the bid would be raised . 
Traders and analysts alike said the market 's surge also reflected an easing of concerns about volatility because of moves by a number of brokerage firms to curtail or cease stock-index arbitrage . 
The theme of industry consolidation had surfaced earlier this year among drug stocks , which posted solid gains in the latest session . 
Also , SmithKline Beecham rose 1 3\/8 to 39 1\/2 . 
Pennzoil is rumored to be accumulating a stake in Chevron in order to push for a revamping of the company 
BankAmerica climbed 1 3\/4 to 30 after PaineWebber boosted its investment opinion on the stock to its highest rating . 
Sea Containers , which unveiled a proposed restructuring , advanced 1 to 62 . 
Shaw Industries , which agreed to acquire Armstrong World Industries ' carpet operations for an undisclosed price , rose 2 1\/4 to 26 1\/8 . 
ERC Corp. rose 7\/8 to 12 . 
Imperial Holly fell 1 5\/8 to 27 1\/8 in the wake of its third-quarter earnings report . 
Cilcorp will also assume $ 22 million of Hunter 's existing debt . 
Bush said that neither he nor Gorbachev expected any `` substantial decisions or agreements . '' 
Israel 's army lifted a blockade around a Palestinian town in the occupied West Bank , ending a 42-day campaign of seizing cars , furniture and other goods to crush a tax boycott . 
East German leader Krenz arrived in Moscow for talks today with Gorbachev on restructuring proposals . 
Nicaragua 's Ortega postponed until today a decision on whether to end a 19-month-old cease-fire in the conflict with the Contra rebels . 
Turkey 's legislature elected Prime Minister Ozal as the country 's first civilian president since 1960 , opening the way for a change of government under a new premier he will select . 
Researchers in Belgium said they have developed a genetic engineering technique for creating hybrid plants for a number of crops , such as cotton , soybeans and rice . 
Hungary 's Parliament voted to hold a national referendum on an election to fill the new post of president . 
Ogden Projects , whose shares began trading on the New York Stock Exchange in August , closed yesterday at $ 26.875 , down 75 cents . 
Meanwhile , Ogden Corp. , which also has interests in building maintenance and management , reported third-quarter net income of $ 27.1 million , or 67 cents a share , more than twice the $ 13.5 million , or 34 cents a share , a year earlier . 
Mr. Phelan has been viewed by many exchange members as being indifferent to stock-price swings caused by program trades . 
Big Board officials have been under seige from both investors and the exchange 's own floor traders since the Dow Jones Industrial Average 's 190-point tumble on Oct. 13 . 
Early last year , after a 140-point , one-day drop in the Dow , the Big Board instituted the collar , which banned program trading through the Big Board 's computers whenever the Dow moved 50 points up or down in a day . 
`` The collar was penetrated on a number of occasions , '' meaning securities firms figured out ways to conduct program trades to circumvent the collar and use the Big Board 's electronic trading system , Mr. Phelan said . 
Exchange officials emphasized that the Big Board is considering a variety of actions to deal with program trading . 
Meanwhile , another big Wall Street brokerage firm joined others that have been pulling back from program trading . 
Mr. Phelan said that his predicting continued volatility is just `` how the world is . 
For example , in a special meeting Monday with Mr. Phelan , senior officials of some of the Big Board 's 49 stock specialist firms complained that the exchange is no longer representing their interests . 
`` We are looking for representation we have n't had , '' a specialist said . 
Mr. Phelan has had difficulty convincing the public that the Big Board is serious about curbing volatility , especially as the exchange clearly relishes its role as the home for $ 200 billion in stock-index funds , which buy huge baskets of stocks to mimic popular stock-market indexes like the Standard & Poor 's 500 , and which sometimes employ program trading . 
Despite what some investors are suggesting , the Big Board is n't even considering a total ban on program trading or stock futures , exchange officials said . 
Most revisions it will propose will be geared toward slowing down program trading during stressful periods , said officials working with the exchange . 
Computers have made trading more rapid , but that can be fixed with some fine-tuning . 
While volatility wo n't go away , he said , `` Volatility is greater than program trading . 
For example , Mr. Phelan said that big institutions have so much control over public investments that they can cause big swings in the market , regardless of index arbitrage . 
`` A lot of people would like to go back to 1970 , '' before program trading , he said . 
Indeed , Mr. Phelan said that if stock-market volatility persists , the U.S. may lose its edge as being the best place to raise capital . 
`` Japan 's markets are more stable , '' he said . 
Lewis L. Glucksman , vice chairman of Smith Barney , Harris Upham & Co. , said : `` This is a problem that 's taking on a life of its own . 
The program trading situation seems to have driven individual investors as well as others out of the market , and even Europeans are suspicious . 
For now , however , Mr. Phelan said : `` I refuse to get out there and tell everybody everything is hunky-dory . 
A NEW MINIMUM-WAGE PLAN has been worked out by Congress and Bush , opening the way for the first increase in over nine years . 
The Big Board is considering reviving a curb on program trading when the market is volatile . 
Stock prices rallied as the Georgia-Pacific bid broke the market 's recent gloom . 
Labor costs climbed 1.2 % in private industry during the third quarter , matching the second-quarter rise . 
Sea Containers plans to sell $ 1.1 billion of assets and use some of the proceeds to buy about 50 % of its common shares for $ 70 each . 
`` We saw good buying in Japan and excellent buying in London , '' said Jay Goldinger , market strategist and trader at Capital Insight Inc. , Beverly Hills , Calif . 
Late in London , the dollar was quoted at 1.8410 West German marks and 142.70 Japanese yen , up from late Monday in New York . 
When U.S. trading began , Treasury bonds received an additional boost from news that sales of new single-family homes fell 14 % in September . 
But later in the day , a report by the Purchasing Management Association of Chicago cast doubt on the recession scenario . 
By the end of the day , bond prices were mixed . 
The benchmark 30-year bond was nearly 1\/4 point higher , or up about $ 2.50 for each $ 1,000 face amount . 
New two-year notes ended unchanged while three-year and four-year notes were slightly lower . 
Municipal bonds ended unchanged to as much as 1\/2 point higher while mortgage-backed securities were up about 1\/8 point . The benchmark 30-year bond was nearly 1\/4 point higher , or up about $ 2.50 for each $ 1,000 face amount . New two-year notes ended unchanged while three-year and four-year notes were slightly lower . 
IBM 's visits to the debt market are closely watched by treasurers at other corporations and by credit market analysts . 
Others said IBM might increase the size of the offering to as much as $ 1 billion if investor demand is strong . 
`` I think the $ 500 million is a little bit of a fire drill , '' said Jim Ednee , head of the industrial bond department at Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc . 
The benchmark 30-year bond was quoted late at 102 12\/32 to yield 7.90 % compared with 102 7\/32 to yield 7.92 % Monday . 
Short-term rates also were mixed . 
The discount rate on three-month Treasury bills rose slightly from the average rate at Monday 's auction to 7.79 % for a bond-equivalent yield of 8.04 % . 
Freddie Mac 's 9 1\/2 % issue was quoted at 99 20\/32 , up 3\/32 from Monday . 
`` We were oversold and today we bounced back . 
`` There were no -LCB- sell -RCB- lists and the calendar is lightening up a bit . 
The market 's tone improved after Monday 's pricing of $ 813 million New York City general obligation bonds . 
The issue 's smooth absorption eased fears that supply would overwhelm demand in coming sessions , traders said . 
His comments were interpreted as a sign that higher interest rates are possible . 
Germany 's 7 % bond due October 1999 was unchanged at 99.35 to yield 7.09 % while the 6 3\/4 % notes due July 1994 rose 0.025 point to 97.275 to yield 7.445 % . 
British government bonds were little changed as investors awaited an address on economic policy by John Major , the new Chancellor of the Exchequer . 
The Financial Accounting Foundation voted 12-2 that FASB accounting rules supercede GASB rules in regard to utilities , hospitals , and colleges and universities owned by the government . 
According to Avery , for the year ended Sept. 30 , 1988 , Uniroyal Chemical had sales of $ 734.2 million and a net loss of $ 47.1 million . 
In a related development , Avery said it completed a recapitalization in which its controlling shareholders and top officers , Nelson Peltz and Peter W. May , surrendered warrants and preferred stock in exchange for a larger stake in Avery 's common shares . 
In January 1989 , the two men acquired the non-packaging assets of Triangle , including a controlling stake in Avery and , by extension , Uniroyal Chemical . 
In the August proxy material , Avery said that unless it sold Uniroyal , its ability to service debt would be hurt and Avery 's shareholder value would `` continue to erode . '' 
News of the bid drew sharp criticism from other computer companies and industry observers . 
Fujitsu itself , which said the bid had n't been approved by its headquarters , was clearly embarrassed . 
Hiroshima officials said they still consider the contract in effect and had no immediate plans to cancel it . 
Richard D. Lewis , president of the 47-store chain , defended the company 's pricing campaign , saying it did n't use `` the misleading expression ` reduced from original prices . ' '' 
Those two groups have recently been leading the list of stocks setting new highs . 
On Friday , when only a dozen common stocks hit 52-week highs on the New York Stock Exchange , five were gold-mining issues , and another four were utilities . 
At first glance , gold and utilities seem strange bedfellows . 
But the two groups have something very important in common : They are both havens for scared money , stocks for people who hate stocks . 
Still , a lot of investors clearly have revived their interest in gold and utility shares . 
`` The primary overriding thing is that people are frightened , '' says Martin Sass , a New York money manager . 
Certainly , the Oct. 13 sell-off did n't settle any stomachs . 
Beyond that , money managers and analysts see other problems . 
Inventories are creeping up 
Inventories are creeping up ; car inventories are already high , and big auto makers are idling plants . 
Britain 's unsettled political scene also worries some investors . 
`` The gyrations in the British government '' add political uncertainty on top of high inflation and a ragged stock market , says John Hoffman , assistant director of research at Smith Barney , Harris Upham & Co . 
Utilities are a classic example 
But many of these stocks have now become expensive . 
Mr. Wachtel points to Coca-Cola Co. and PepsiCo Inc. as examples 
Gold stocks are n't cheap on this basis , either , with many selling for 20 times earnings or more . 
But the two groups represent a further step in defensiveness . 
That 's just what Joseph Granville expects . 
`` We are going to explode lower , '' says the flamboyant market seer , who had a huge following a few years back . 
`` Anyone telling you to buy stocks in this market is technically irresponsible . 
One reason for his gloom is a weekly tally he keeps of stocks within a point of hitting new highs or lows . 
Robert Stovall , a veteran New York money manager and president of Stovall\/Twenty-First Securities , has money in both gold and utility issues . 
In such a climate , utility stocks look good to him . 
The appeal of gold issues , Mr. Stovall says , is that `` they 're a counter group . 
You go into them because they move counter to the general market . '' 
Nevertheless , Mr. Stovall emphasizes that `` you do n't buy -LCB- gold stocks -RCB- based on powerful fundamentals . '' 
In addition to having high price-earnings ratios , most pay puny dividends , if any . 
Abby Cohen , an investment strategist for Drexel Burnham Lambert , also thinks it makes sense to have some money in both utilities and gold . 
But `` a bunch of utilities '' should post profit increases . 
It never ceases to amaze me how the business world continues to trivialize the world 's environmental problems -LRB- `` Is Science , or Private Gain , Driving Ozone Policy ? '' by George Melloan , Business World , Oct. 24 -RRB- . 
To suggest that a 10 % drop in ozone by the middle of the next century would be negligible is irresponsible and shortsighted . 
Consider the fact that a mere 2 % drop in ozone would increase birth defects and mutations by allowing solar radiation to alter the DNA structure . 
The reason environmentalists `` do n't mind seeing new crises arise '' is because there are new crises . 
Crises larger and more dangerous to the quality of life than they were 10 years ago . 
If you are doubtful , consider for a moment that the Pomton Lakes Reservoirs in northern New Jersey , which supply the tristate area with drinking water , are riddled with toxic PCBs . 
Mr. Melloan 's column was right on the money , but I wish it could have gone one step further . 
The last of the measurements reported was in 1985 , but recent conversations with Mr. Scotto indicated that he knew of no recent changes in the trend . 
This , in turn , threatens the massive vested interests of which you have written . 
My questions on this subject at a recent meeting at the World Resources Institute with representatives of the National Resource Development Commission , the Environmental Protection Agency , Friends of the Earth , etc. were greeted with derision and some mumbled comments about that report being discredited . 
But this is almost an underground activity . 
To my knowledge , no government entities , including the EPA , are pursuing UV-B measurements . 
It seems to me that such measurements are a vital part of any intellectually honest evaluation of the threat posed by CFCs . 
Although , like all scientific theories , it had its initial opponents , few experts question the connection now . 
In the September issue of Scientific American , Thomas E. Graedel , distinguished member of the technical staff at AT&T Bell Laboratories , and Paul J. Crutzen , director of the air chemistry division of the Max Planck Institute for Chemistry in Mainz , West Germany , wrote , `` It is now quite evident that chlorofluorocarbons , particularly CFC-11 and CFC-12 are the major culprits responsible for ozone depletion . '' 
However , unlike Messrs. Graedel and Crutzen , who are both pioneers in the study of atmospheric chemistry , Mr. Teagan has no special expertise in the area . 
MiniScribe also has n't filed any financial statements for 1989 . 
Mr. Rifenburgh said such statements should be ready by the end of November . 
He said he expects the company to have $ 500 million in sales for this year . 
The release of MiniScribe 's new balance sheet came one day after it introduced its new line of one-inch disk drives , on which it is pinning much of its hope for survival . 
Although it is not the first company to produce the thinner drives , which store information in personal computers , MiniScribe says it is the first with an 80-megabyte drive 
Analysts and consultants had mixed reactions to yesterday 's announcements , praising Mr. Rifenburgh 's efforts but questioning whether the company can survive in a highly competitive marketplace . 
`` It 's a wait-and-see attitude , '' said Dave Vellante , vice president of storage research for International Data Corp . 
The company also faces delisting by the National Association of Securities Dealers . 
The company continues to trade in the over-the-counter market with an exception to listing requirements . 
Mr. Rifenburgh said the board still has n't acted on most of the internal report 's recommendations , pending restatement of the balance sheet . 
By concentrating all their resources on the pay raise , Wright and Tower , the networks actually overlooked some major stories that showed the flaws and shortcomings of the institution ... . 
The operative definition of newsworthiness will favor virtually unrestrained use of personal , sensitive and intimate facts . 
Similarly , visual images will be more vivid , sensational and , sometimes , gruesome . The operative definition of newsworthiness will favor virtually unrestrained use of personal , sensitive and intimate facts . Traditional standards of relevancy and importance -LRB- `` is this something the public ought to know '' -RRB- will be replaced by a much broader test -LRB- `` is this something the public is interested in knowing '' -RRB- . And , since the public has always been fascinated by gossip and voyeurism , reporters and editors will strain for creative angles to justify the inclusion of collateral facts about private lives including sexual activities and domestic relationships , activities of family members , and all matters about mental and physical health . 
The seemingly mundane action , which was opposed by the Securities Industry Association , a trade group , has important implications for banks ' recent entry into the underwriting of corporate securities . 
Over the past two years , the Fed has given a handful of banks ' securities affiliates permission to underwrite and deal in a variety of corporate , asset-backed and municipal securities that had previously been the sole domain of securities firms . 
As many as 50 of his employees at Specialized Bicycle Components Inc. ride with him . 
But today , the company needs its entrepreneurial spirit more than ever . 
Thus , Mr. Sinyard 's company must innovate more than ever to stay ahead of them , by developing new products specifically for mountain biking . At the same time , though , it must become more structured to better manage its growth . 
`` The big word around Specialized is passion , '' says Erik Eidsmo , a former ski-industry executive whom Mr. Sinyard recruited from Citicorp to run marketing and sales . 
That 's my challenge . 
Mr. Eidsmo is one of several key people from outside the cycling industry who were hired to bring the free-wheeling , fast-growing company under tighter control . 
`` We had a lot of problems , '' Mr. Sinyard says . 
While the company 's sales were soaring , `` We still had a system that was probably appropriate for $ 10 million to $ 20 million in sales . '' 
Since his arrival in May , Mr. Eidsmo has put in place techniques learned while working for Citicorp , such as management-by-objective , detailed project plans and forecasts of company sales and product trends . 
`` But it 's risky , '' he says of Specialized 's attempt to adopt a corporate structure . 
Hoping to stay ahead of the pack , the company is emphasizing innovation . 
At a recent trade show , convention-goers lined up to view a new Specialized bike frame that weighs just 2.7 pounds -- a pound less than the lightest mountain-bike frame on the market . 
It currently costs $ 750 , though Mr. Sinyard thinks the price can be reduced within three years to between $ 200 and $ 250 . 
But demands on the company 's creativity are certain to grow . 
Competition is intensifying as larger companies invade a mountain-bike market Mr. Sinyard 's company once had virtually all to itself . 
One especially coveted Specialized market the new players are targeting is mountain-bike accessories , which Mr. Eidsmo calls `` the future of our business . '' 
Accessories not only sell faster than whole bikes , they also offer profit margins nearly double the 25 % to 30 % or so on sales of complete cycles . 
To get a piece of the business , Nike Inc. , Beaverton , Ore. , introduced a line of mountain-bike shoes . 
Competition in the sale of complete bikes is heating up too . 
A subsidiary of a Taiwanese holding company with world-wide sales of $ 150 million , Giant is one example of the sudden globalization of Mr. Sinyard 's once-cozy market niche . 
Schwinn Bicycle Co. , Chicago , established joint ventures with bike companies in mainland China and Hungary to sell bikes . 
In response to the internationalization of the business , Mr. Sinyard 's company is replacing independent distributors overseas with wholly owned subsidiaries . 
Roger M. Marino , president , was named to the new post of vice chairman . 
`` We 'll raise it through bank loans . 
`` We 'll raise it through bank loans . We 'll raise it through -LCB- new -RCB- equity . And we 'll raise it through existing shareholders '' as well as through junk bonds , said Anthony Simonds-Gooding , the private consortium 's chief executive . 
The consortium faced a setback in May when technical problems forced it to postpone the September launch until next spring . 
British Satellite faces competition from Sky Television , a satellite-TV venture begun last February and owned by Rupert Murdoch 's News Corp . 
In London , the Financial Times 100-share index finished 30.1 points higher at 2112.2 . 
The 30-share index settled 23.2 points higher at 1701.7 . 
Jaguar ended 22 higher at 747 . 
Dealers said fresh buying was drawn into Jaguar after a senior executive of Daimler-Benz , the auto maker , told a British television interviewer during the weekend that the West German company held talks with the luxury auto maker over possible joint ventures . 
Glaxo was the biggest gainer , jumping 35 to # 13.78 -LRB- $ 21.72 -RRB- on anticipation of a stock split next week . 
On Monday , volume on the First Section was estimated at 600 million shares , down from 1.24 billion shares Friday . 
Declining issues outnumbered advancers 551 to 349 
Declining issues outnumbered advancers 551 to 349 ; 224 issues were unchanged . 
Takamori Matsuda , an analyst at Dresdner-ABD Securities , said fading expectation for lower interest rates made investors step back from real-estate shares , which advanced last week . 
The Tokyo Stock Price Index of all issues listed in the First Section , which fell 15.82 points Friday , was down 5.16 points , or 0.19 % , at 2676.60 . 
The Second Section index , which fell 36.87 points Friday , was down 21.44 points , or 0.59 % , to close at 3636.06 . 
The energy of participating investors streamed into Tokyu Group shares , pushing prices of its companies up across the board . 
Tokyu Group announced during the weekend that each Group company will buy the others ' stocks to defend themselves against a rumored takeover . 
The announcement fueled speculation for future advances in the shares . 
Tokyu Department Store advanced 260 to 2410 . 
Tokyu Department Store advanced 260 to 2410 . Tokyu Corp. was up 150 at 2890 . 
Share prices in Frankfurt closed narrowly mixed after listless and directionless trading . 
Traders said turnover was particularly thin as investors waited for Wall Street to set the direction for the week . 
Investors welcomed the move . 
Courtaulds ' spinoff reflects pressure on British industry to boost share prices beyond the reach of corporate raiders . 
Courtaulds ' restructuring is among the largest thus far in Britain , though it is dwarfed by B.A.T Industries PLC 's plans to spin off roughly # 4 billion in assets to help fend off a takeover bid from Anglo-French financier Sir James Goldsmith . 
Courtaulds has been under pressure to enhance shareholder value since takeover speculators -- including Australian financier Kerry Packer -- surfaced holding small stakes last year . 
Though Mr. Packer has since sold his stake , Courtaulds is moving to keep its institutional shareholders happy . 
In a statement , the company said : `` Both parts can only realize their full potential and be appropriately valued by the market if they are separately quoted companies . 
Company officials said the new company , Sin Kean Boon-Sanwa -LRB- J.V . -RRB- is capitalized at the equivalent of 54 million yen -LRB- $ 381,000 -RRB- . 
`` The market was pretty dull '' for most of the day , said Robert H. Chandross , vice president at Lloyds Bank PLC . 
Other key economic indicators due this week include today 's release of the September leading indicators index and new-home sales . 
Despite yesterday 's modest bond market gains , economists say investors are anxious about the Treasury 's huge quarterly refunding of government debt , the timing of which depends on Congressional efforts to raise the debt ceiling . 
The Treasury 's benchmark 30-year bond rose 1\/8 point . 
Strong demand for New York City 's $ 813 million general obligation bonds propped up the municipal market . 
The New York City issue included $ 757 million of tax-exempt bonds priced to yield between 6.50 % to 7.88 % , depending on the maturity . 
As expected , the longer-term tax-exempt New York bonds had yields nearly as high as those on taxable long-term Treasury bonds . 
As expected , the longer-term tax-exempt New York bonds had yields nearly as high as those on taxable long-term Treasury bonds . The yield on the benchmark 30-year Treasury bond ended yesterday at about 7.92 % . 
The benchmark 30-year bond ended at 102 7\/32 to yield 7.92 % , compared with Friday 's price of 102 2\/32 to yield 7.93 % . 
Short-term interest rates rose at the government 's regular weekly Treasury-bill auction . 
The average discount rate on three-month bills was 7.78 % and the rate on six-month bills was 7.62 % . 
In June , Western Union was forced to reset the interest rate on the senior secured notes due in 1992 to 19 1\/4 % from 16 1\/2 % , a move which increased the firm 's annual interest payments by $ 13.8 million . 
Other Western Union securities were also lower . 
The company 's 7.90 % sinking fund debentures were quoted at a bid price of 14 1\/4 and an offered price of 30 , while the 10 3\/4 % subordinated debentures of 1997 were being bid for at 28 and offered at around 34 3\/4 . 
Ginnie Mae 's 9 % issue for November delivery finished at 98 1\/2 , up 4\/32 , and its 10 % issue at 102 3\/8 , up 4\/32 . 
In the derivative market , insurance companies have scaled back their purchases of Remic securities , or real estate mortgage investment conduits , as they assess potential claims from the recent California earthquake and hurricane in the Carolinas . 
In the asset-backed market , Beneficial Corp. offered $ 248 million of securities backed by home-equity loans , the second large deal in the past week . 
British government bonds ended moderately higher , encouraged by a steadier pound and a rise in British stocks . 
West German government bonds fell as much as 0.60 point in light , nervous trading . 
Japanese government bonds continued to erode as the dollar remained resilient against the yen . 
The downturn in total value may be only temporary , suggested Herb Adler , a KPMG Peat Marwick partner . 
Large cross-border deals numbered 51 and totaled $ 17.1 billion in the second quarter , the firm added . 
`` The biotechnology firms may be setting up their own competitors , '' said Richard Godown , president of the Industrial Biotechnology Association . 
He added that until now the Japanese have only acquired equity positions in U.S. biotechnology companies . 
`` They are piggybacking onto developed technology , '' he said . 
During the past five years , Japanese concerns have invested in several of the U.S. 's 431 independent biotechnology companies . 
Chugai has been one of the most active Japanese players in U.S. biotechnology companies 
The Japanese government , Mr. Godown said , has stated that it wants 10 % to 11 % of its gross national product to come from biotechnology products . 
`` We think Gen-Probe has technology important to people 's health , '' he said , adding : `` We think it is important for us to have such technology . '' 
In 1988 , Chugai had net income of $ 60 million on revenue of $ 991 million . 
GenProbe had a net loss of $ 9.5 million on revenue of $ 5.8 million . 
But after a few pleasantries , the Soviets unexpectedly got serious . 
The Soviets have a world-leading space program , the guests noted . 
`` We were just surprised , '' says Tad Inada , NASDA 's director for international affairs . 
But `` the Soviet Union has areas where it is n't behind Japan , '' says Mikhail Shapovalov of the Soviet Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations . 
The sales pitch might n't be as farfetched as it seems . 
And , despite its image as a technology superpower , Japan has a lot of weaknesses . 
It 's a world leader in semiconductors , but behind the U.S. in making the computers that use those chips . 
One question being debated in the Soviet Union is how to use the defense sector 's research-and-production expertise in the rest of the economy . 
By contrast , the Japanese have proved adept at making use of Soviet inventions . 
Kobe Steel Ltd. adopted Soviet casting technology in 1966 and used it for 14 years until it developed its own system . 
Kobe Steel Ltd. adopted Soviet casting technology in 1966 and used it for 14 years until it developed its own system . Kawasaki Steel Corp. bought a Soviet steel-casting patent two years ago and has jointly developed the system with the Soviets . 
Soviet efforts to sell their technology abroad do n't appear to worry the U.S. , Japan 's principal ally . 
`` We have never opposed the development of economic relations between our allies and the Soviet Union , '' says a State Department official . 
Under Mikhail Gorbachev 's perestroika , the Soviets have sought economic ties all over the world , including new export markets . 
They believe technology is one of their best bets , and some Soviet officials say Moscow will even consider declassifying military know-how if the price is right . 
The Soviets held export exhibitions that included high-tech items in New York and West Germany . 
In August , representatives of Keidanren , Japan 's largest business organization , visited Moscow to explore exports and investments that would help the Soviet economy . 
Out of the blue , the Soviet Chamber of Commerce handed over details on 59 technologies that the Japanese might want to buy . 
But , while the Soviets ca n't expect direct technology flow from Japan , they also hope to benefit from Japanese manufacturing expertise . 
`` The Soviet Union has a lot of know-how , but it has been difficult to put that into actual production because of various structural problems in the economy , '' says Mr. Shapovalov , the Foreign Ministry official . 
Even if the Japanese find Soviet technology desirable , such discussions would be fraught with political complications . 
Still stinging from the international backlash over the sale two years ago of sensitive military technology to the Soviets by a subsidiary of Japan 's Toshiba Corp. , many Japanese are eager to avoid appearing to help the Soviets in any way . 
And what they have shown is n't impressive . 
It took effect after seven years of bitter debate between the Securities and Exchange Commission and traders and exchanges . 
The timing for change was right . 
Within three weeks of the 1975 end to fixed rates there were all-out price wars among brokers fighting for institutional business , with rate slashes of 35 % to 60 % below pre-May 1 levels . 
Ray Garrett Jr. , SEC chairman , said the `` breadth and depth of the discounting is more than I expected . '' 
Longer term , the impact is unclear . 
Foreign stock markets , with which the U.S. is entwined , also have ended fixed commissions in recent years . 
It came in London 's `` Big Bang '' 1986 deregulation ; and Toronto 's `` Little Bang '' the same year . 
Mr. Bush announced several weeks ago that he intended to send such a mission , composed of top government aides and business and labor leaders . 
But record industry executives familiar with the talks said Mr. Azoff and Warner came to an agreement yesterday to form a 50-50 joint-venture company funded by Warner and run by Mr. Azoff . 
The agreement is said to be similar to Warner 's 50-50 partnership with record and movie producer David Geffen , whose films and records are distributed by the Warner Bros. studio and the Warner records unit . 
But Mr. Azoff had been negotiating for more than a year to get out of his MCA contract , which expired in 1991 . 
Mr. Azoff also was eager to return to a more entrepreneurial role in which he had a big financial stake in his own efforts . 
Tom Panelli had a perfectly good reason for not using the $ 300 rowing machine he bought three years ago . 
Yet the rowing machine has n't been touched since , even though he has moved it across the country with him twice . 
A San Francisco lawyer , Mr. Panelli rowed religiously when he first got the machine , but , he complains , it left grease marks on his carpet , `` and it was boring . 
It 's a horrible machine , actually . 
Mr. Panelli has plenty of company . 
Nearly three-fourths of the people who own home exercise equipment do n't use it as much as they planned , according to The Wall Street Journal 's `` American Way of Buying '' survey . 
It is n't just exercise gear that is n't getting a good workout . 
The fitness craze itself has gone soft , the survey found . 
Fewer people said they were working up a sweat with such activities as jogging , tennis , swimming and aerobics . 
But even that group knows some people do n't use their machines as much as they should . 
`` The first excuse is they do n't have enough time , '' says research director Thomas Doyle . 
Still , the average price of such bikes rose last year to $ 145 . 
Mr. Doyle predicts a trend toward fewer pieces of home exercise equipment being sold at higher prices . 
Nancy Igdaloff , who works in corporate payments at Bank of America in San Francisco , may be a good prospect for such a gizmo . 
But rather than write off home fitness equipment , she traded up 
`` I 'm using it a lot , '' she says . 
The poll points up some inconsistencies between what people say and what they do . 
A surprising 78 % of people said they exercise regularly , up from 73 % in 1981 . 
This conjures up images of a nation full of trim , muscular folks , and suggests couch potatoes are out of season . 
The discrepancy may be because asking people about their fitness regime is a bit like inquiring about their love life . 
`` People say they swim , and that may mean they 've been to the beach this year , '' says Krys Spain , research specialist for the President 's Council on Physical Fitness and Sports . 
`` It 's hard to know if people are responding truthfully . 
While she applauds the fact that more Americans are getting up from the television to stroll or garden , she says the percentage of Americans who do `` real exercise to build the heart '' is only 10 % to 20 % . 
So many people fudge on answers about exercise , the president 's council now uses specific criteria to determine what is considered vigorous 
One of the council 's goals , set in 1980 , was to see more than 60 % of adults under 65 years of age getting vigorous exercise by 1990 . 
But even that goal may prove optimistic . 
Of 14 activities , the Journal survey found that 12 -- including bicycling , skiing and swimming -- are being done by fewer Americans today than eight years ago . 
Only walking and golf increased in popularity during the 1980s -- and only slightly . 
Jeanette Traverso , a California lawyer , gave up running three times a week to play a weekly round of golf , finding it more social and serene . 
It 's an activity she feels she can do for life , and by pulling a golf cart , she still gets a good workout . 
Most people said they exercise both for health and enjoyment . 
`` And it 's relaxing . 
Only about a quarter of the respondents said they exercise to lose weight . 
Slightly more , like Leslie Sherren , a law librarian in San Francisco who attends dance aerobics five times a week , exercise to relieve stress . 
But fully 90 % of those polled felt they did n't need to belong to a health club . 
`` They 're too crowded , and everybody 's showing off , '' says Joel Bryant , a 22-year-old student from Pasadena , Calif . 
`` The guys are being macho , and the girls are walking around in little things . 
But at least they show up . 
Nearly half of those who joined health clubs said they did n't use their membership as often as they planned . 
There are die-hard bodies , of course . 
The proprietor of Sante West , an aerobics studio in San Francisco 's Marina district , which was hit hard by the earthquake , says , `` People were going nuts the minute we opened , '' three days after the quake . 
Perhaps the most disturbing finding is that the bowling alley may be an endangered American institution . 
The survey reported the number of people who said they bowl regularly has fallen to just 8 % from 17 % in 1981 . 
To find out why , the group recently commissioned a study of the past 20 years of bowling-related research . 
Three reasons were pinpointed : a preference for watching bowling and other sports on television rather than actually bowling , dowdy bowling centers , and dissatisfaction with bowling itself . 
`` It 's good exercise , '' he says . 
`` I ca n't do anything score-wise , but I like meeting the girls . '' 
Concerning your Sept. 29 article `` Retailers Face Cutbacks , Uncertain Future '' : The outcome of our leveraged buyout is looking very positive . 
Unlike most of the other retailers mentioned in the story , Jos. A. Bank Clothiers Inc. is not in serious financial problems . 
When it comes to busting ghosts , the Monroe , Conn. , couple are perfect demons . 
They claim to have busted spirits , poltergeists and other spooks in hundreds of houses around the country . 
Mr. Busch says there is a scientific explanation for all haunts , and he can even tell you how to encourage the spirits . 
`` All you have to do is eat a big pizza , and then go to bed , '' he says . 
Either way , the ghostbusting business is going like gangbusters . 
Tales of haunts and horrors are proliferating beyond the nation 's Elm Streets and Amityvilles . 
In a public opinion poll published in the October issue of Parents Magazine , a third of those queried said they believe that ghosts or spirits make themselves known to people . 
The spirits , of course , could hardly care less whether people do or do n't believe in them . 
They do n't even give a nod to human sensibilities by celebrating Halloween . 
For the spooks it 's just another day of ectoplasmic business as usual 
But they do n't careen around in an old Cadillac , wear funny suits or blast away at slimy spirits . 
A foul-smelling demon supposedly plagued a house in Mannington , Ky . 
When the weather cools , Mr. Baker says , hobos often hole up in abandoned houses . 
On a recent afternoon , Mr. Baker and a reporter go ghost-busting , visiting Kathleen Stinnett , a Lexington woman who has phoned the University of Kentucky to report mysterious happenings in her house . 
Mr. Baker hears her out , pokes around a bit , asks a few questions and proposes some explanations . 
Of the self-starting vacuum cleaner , he says : `` Could be Cuddles , -LCB- Mrs. Stinnett 's dog -RCB- . '' 
Of the self-starting vacuum cleaner , he says : `` Could be Cuddles , -LCB- Mrs. Stinnett 's dog -RCB- . '' The flying telephone : `` You tangle the base cord around a chair leg , and the receiver does seem to fly off . '' 
`` I 'm not sure he 's explained everything , '' Mrs. Stinnett says grudgingly . 
`` I tell people it 's the groundup bones of saints , '' he says . 
Oregon 's Mr. Hyman has investigated claims of flying cats , apparitions and bouncing chandeliers and has come up with a plausible explanation , he says , for every one . 
Two years ago , a Canadian reader bet Omni Magazine $ 1,000 that it could n't debunk the uncanny goings-on in `` the Oregon Vortex , '' a former Indian burial ground in southern Oregon . 
He showed up with a carpenter 's level , carefully measured every surface and showed how the apparent shrinkage was caused by the perspective . 
`` A very striking illusion , '' Mr. Hyman says now , his voice dripping with skepticism , `` but an illusion nevertheless . '' 
The Rev. Alphonsus Trabold , a theology professor and exorcism expert at St. Bonaventure University in Olean , N.Y. , frequently is asked to exorcise unruly spirits , and he often obliges . 
`` On certain occasions a spirit could be earthbound and make itself known , '' he says . 
`` If the person believes there 's an evil spirit , you ask it to be gone , '' he says . 
But sometimes more energetic attacks are required . 
Mr. Warren pronounces the Litchfield case `` your typical demonic infestation . '' 
A Scottish dwarf built the small red house 110 years ago and now his demonic ghost haunts it , Mr. Warren says . 
The owner , who begs anonymity , asserts that the dwarf , appearing as a dark shadow , has manhandled her , tossing her around the living room and yanking out a hank of hair . 
Father McKenna moves through the house praying in Latin , urging the demon to split . 
Suddenly the woman begins swaying and then writhing . 
`` She 's being attacked by the demon , '' Mrs. Warren stagewhispers as the priest sprinkles holy water over the squirming woman , and the television camera grinds . 
A half-hour later , the woman is smiling and chatting 
But Mr. Warren says the woman has `` psychic burns '' on her back from the confrontation . 
Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. counts under 39,000 workers , down 100 from the start of the year and off 8,500 from after its merger and the market collapse two years ago . 
Another major firm has cut 6,000 workers , 13 % of its staff , since Black Monday . 
Any hiring is confined to retail sales . 
Now it offers richer commissions to lure a broker a week . 
But then it was acquired by Household International Inc . Now it offers richer commissions to lure a broker a week . Interstate\/Johnson Lane Inc. this year adds 70 people -- 60 of them in retail -- to its 1,300-member staff . 
`` I do n't foresee any shortages over the next few months , '' says Ken Allen , an official of Operating Engineers Local 3 in San Francisco . 
The supply of experienced civil engineers , though , is tighter . 
But , with the state offering only $ 39,000 a year and California 's high standard of living , `` there are n't too many to choose from , '' says Brent Scott , a recruiting officer . 
Employee-benefit specialists drew a collective sigh of relief in early October when the Labor Department backed away from a proposal that companies let former employees and beneficiaries -- along with active workers -- borrow against balances in 401 -LRB- k -RRB- and similar savings plans . 
Now comes word that IRS regulations being drafted could put companies in violation of the tax code if they make loans to retiree shareholders and directors but do n't make them available to other former workers who usually earned less . 
But violation could bring substantial tax penalties to both employer and employees . 
CORPORATE DOWNSIZING digs deeper . 
Outplacement consultant Right Associates says the average pay of its clients fell to $ 66,743 last year from $ 70,765 in 1987 
Outplacement consultant Right Associates says the average pay of its clients fell to $ 66,743 last year from $ 70,765 in 1987 ; severance pay dropped to 25 weeks from 29 . 
Only one in four companies with flexible benefit plans lets workers buy or sell vacation days , consultant Towers Perrin says . 
STUDENTS SHUN burger flipping for jobs tied to careers . 
`` Fast-food jobs are n't popular no matter what they pay , '' says a Tufts official . 
Working students , she explains , want `` some satisfaction . '' 
Carnegie Mellon , though , says some students conclude they can help their careers most by hitting the books 
Slowing economies in some areas limit student choice . 
Democracy is making a return with a vengeance to Latin America 's most populous and deeply indebted country . 
Who that winner will be is highly uncertain . 
A half-dozen candidates , backing policies ranging from Thatcherism to watered-down Marxism , are given a chance of winning . 
The uncertainty is sending shivers through Brazilian financial markets . 
The dollar , the best indicator of the country 's mood , has skyrocketed on the parallel market , as has gold . 
The big question is whether the new president will have the strength and the political support in Congress to take steps to cure Brazil 's economic ills . 
Still , massive internal debt has forced the government to borrow massively on the domestic market and to offer inflation-adjusted returns of 2 % to 3 % a month just to get investors to hold on to its paper . 
Much of the money goes into subsidies or keeping inefficient state-controlled companies operating . 
Among the results is a frequent breakdown of public services . 
But his inexperience raises doubts that he would have the political power to carry them out . 
Mr. Conn charges that Humana 's own actions undermine its argument . 
When a hospital in Lexington installed a lithotripter last year , demand for a similar kidney-stone smashing machine at a Humana hospital in Louisville fell 34 % . 
Meanwhile , another hospital 's proposal for a new-generation lithotripter is pending before the board that administers the certificate-of-need law . 
Now there 's a new wrinkle in what young doctors want 
`` Ten years ago , a physician would go to a town and take out a loan -LRB- to start a practice -RRB- , '' says James Merritt , president of Merritt , Hawkins & Associates , an Irvine , Calif. , physician recruiter that conducted the survey . 
`` They wo n't do that very often today at all . 
The numbers behind such fears : The average debt of medical school graduates who borrowed to pay for their education jumped 10 % to $ 42,374 this year from $ 38,489 in 1988 , says the Association of American Medical Colleges . 
Money is n't the only reason for the shift in practice preferences . 
It reflects values of a generation that wants more time for families and personal interests , says John H. Moxley III , who directs physician-executive searches for Korn\/Ferry International . 
The 12-bed `` cooperative care '' unit is one of about 18 nationwide where a family member or friend helps care for a patient in the hospital . 
`` The philosophy is to make the patient and the family very responsible for a portion of their own care , '' says Anthony J. Grieco , medical director of cooperative care at New York University Medical Center , where the concept began 10 years ago . 
It also saves money . 
The approach has generated so much interest that NYU is host to the first conference on cooperative care Nov. 30 . 
THE CHIEF NURSING officer can be responsible for more than 1,000 employees and at least one-third of a hospital 's budget 
Knight-Ridder would n't comment on the offer . 
Under the plan , NRM said holders of its common units will receive one share of new common stock in Edisto Resources Corp. for every 14.97 common units owned . 
As the largest holder of acquisition preferred units , Mesa Limited Partnership would own about 28 % of Edisto after the transaction . 
Sherwin-Williams Co. and Whittaker Corp. said they 've discontinued talks toward a definitive agreement regarding Sherwin-Williams ' acquisition of Whittaker 's chemical coating group . 
After hitting two-year highs this summer , net sales of stock funds slowed in September , according to the Investment Company Institute , a trade group . 
`` Confidence was starting to come back because we did n't have wildly volatile days , '' says Tyler Jenks , research director for Kanon Bloch Carre & Co. , a Boston research firm . 
But if reinvested dividends are excluded , investors put in only $ 340 million more than they pulled out for the month . 
Investors in stock funds did n't panic the weekend after mid-October 's 190-point market plunge . 
But the stock market swings have continued . 
Investors pulled back from bond funds in September , too . 
Net sales of bond funds for the month totaled $ 1.1 billion , down two-thirds from $ 3.1 billion in August . 
The major reason : heavy outflows from high-risk , high-yield junk bond funds . 
Many small investors went for the safety of money market funds . 
Assets of these and other short-term funds surged more than $ 5 billion in September , the institute said . 
At Fidelity Investments , the nation 's largest fund group , money funds continue to draw the most business , says Michael Hines , vice president , marketing . 
Investor interest in stock funds `` has n't stalled at all , '' Mr. Hines maintains . 
One trend that continues is growth in the money invested in funds . 
Stock-fund managers , meantime , went into October with less cash on hand than they held earlier this year . 
Managers of junk funds were bolstering their cash hoards after the September cash crunch at Campeau Corp . 
Junk-portfolio managers raised their cash position to 9.4 % of assets in September from 8.3 % in August . 
Investors in all funds will seek safety in the coming months , some analysts say . 
Secretary of State Baker , we read , decided to kill a speech that Robert Gates , deputy national security adviser and a career Soviet expert , was going to give to a student colloquium , the National Collegiate Security Conference . 
Perhaps he might have cited Mr. Gorbachev 's need for `` a stable currency , free and competitive markets , private property and real prices '' and other pie-in-the-sky reforms . 
If Mr. Gates had been allowed to say these things , we would now be hearing about `` discord '' and `` disarray '' on foreign policy . 
In fact , he did 
So far as we can see , there is no disagreement among Mr. Baker , Mr. Quayle , the Mr. Gates we 've read , or for that matter President Bush . 
They all understand point one : Nothing the U.S. can do will make much difference in whether Mr. Gorbachev succeeds with perestroika . 
But everyone agrees that Mr. Gorbachev 's problems result from the failure of his own system . 
They can be relieved only by changing that system , not by pouring Western money into it . 
On the other hand , so long as Mr. Gorbachev is easing his grip on his empire , everyone we 've heard agrees that the U.S. can benefit by engaging him . 
If a deal can be made to cut the world 's Ortegas loose from Moscow , why not ? 
Mr. Baker may want to avoid criticism from Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell , but as Secretary of State his audience is the entire Free World , not just Congress . 
In any case , he 's likely to find that the more he muzzles his colleagues , the more leaks will pop up all around Washington , a lesson once learned by Henry Kissinger . 
Letting officials express their own nuances can be educational . 
It is in the Western interest to see Mr. Gorbachev succeed . 
Even if the press is ready to seize and misinterpret , these are not very complicated thoughts . 
Vernon E. Jordan was elected to the board of this transportation services concern . 
Two gunmen entered a Maryland restaurant , ordered two employees to lie on the floor and shot them in the backs of their heads . 
Describing this and other grisly killings , Sen. Strom Thurmond -LRB- R. , S.C . -RRB- recently urged fellow lawmakers to revive a broad federal death penalty . 
There 's just one problem : The law that Sen. Thurmond is pushing would be irrelevant in the case of the Maryland restaurant murders and almost all other killings . 
Yet the bill is riding high on the furor over drug trafficking . 
Senate Republicans , after repeatedly failing to attach death-penalty amendments to unrelated legislation , have finally gotten a full-blown death-penalty bill through committee . 
But in 1976 , the court permitted resurrection of such laws , if they meet certain procedural requirements . 
The Thurmond bill would establish a federally administered death sentence for 23 crimes , most of which were formerly punishable by death under federal statutes that the Supreme Court invalidated . 
For one thing , it 's unlikely that many people would receive federal death sentences , let alone be executed . 
In fact , only 28 defendants would have been eligible for federal death sentences if the Thurmond bill had been in effect in the past three years , according to a study by the Senate Judiciary Committee 's Democratic staff . 
`` In that sense , the whole debate is sort of a fraud , '' argues a Democratic Senate staff member . 
Republicans acknowledge that few people would be executed under the Thurmond bill , but they contend that is n't the point . 
In addition to resuscitating the old issue of whether death sentences deter criminals , this bill has made race a major part of the death-penalty debate . 
The amendment prompted an ironic protest from Mr. Thurmond , who complained that it would `` kill '' capital punishment . 
And the Kennedy amendment would invade not only federal but state sentencings , in two important ways . 
`` That burden is very difficult , if not impossible , to meet , '' says Mr. Boyd . 
`` How do you prove a negative ? '' 
At least 15 major studies purport to show that particular states have imposed the death penalty disproportionately against killers of whites compared with blacks , and against black defendants compared with white defendants . 
The Kennedy amendment would , in effect , legislate around the Supreme Court ruling . 
But if it survives , it could prompt other statutory changes , according to the Mr. Burr . 
Robert Kornreich , an attorney for the Telerate holders , told Judge Hartnett the Dow Jones offer is `` arrogant '' and `` hostile . '' 
Telerate provides information about financial markets through an electronic network . 
Separately , Lone Star Technologies said the bankruptcy court granted Lone Star Steel an extension until year end on its exclusive period to present a reorganization plan . 
Nothing was going to hold up the long-delayed settlement of Britton vs. Thomasini . 
The walls shook 
The walls shook ; the building rocked . 
`` The judge came out and said , ` Quick , let 's put this on the record , ' '' says Sandy Bettencourt , the judge 's court reporter . 
A 10-gallon water cooler had toppled onto the floor , soaking the red carpeting . 
Lights flickered on and off 
Lights flickered on and off ; plaster dropped from the ceiling , the walls still shook and an evacuation alarm blared outside . 
And the lawyers were just as eager as the judge to wrap it up . 
Indeed , the insurance adjusters had already bolted out of the courtroom . 
The insurance adjusters think differently . 
`` I did n't know if it was World War III or what , '' says Melanie Carvain of Morristown , N.J . 
Elaborating on the concern about doctors ' sacrificing earnings in order to spend `` talk time '' with patients , we are finding the quality of the time spent is the key to true rapport . 
The issue is far-reaching . 
Right now , the American populace is spending about 12 % of our gross national product on health care . 
The overcapacity problem has intensified in recent years , with foreign auto makers beginning car and truck production in the U.S. . 
`` Unless the market goes to 19 million units -- which we all know it 's not going to do -- we have the inescapable fact that the transplants are adding capacity , '' Mr. Lutz said last month . 
Revco reacted cautiously , saying the plan would add $ 260 million of new debt to the highly leveraged company . 
However , the group is offering to pay off bondholders in cash only -- $ 260.5 million -- and no equity . 
The Revco bonds are high-yield , high-risk `` junk '' bonds 
Analysts said the nation 's second-largest drugstore chain was a valuable company , despite its financial woes . 
In addition , Revco 's 1,900 stores in 27 states represent a lot of real estate , he said , and demographics are helping pharmacies 
Last week , Revco 's parent company , Anac Holding Corp. , said the company reported a loss of $ 16.2 million for the fiscal first quarter , compared with a loss of $ 27.9 million in the year-earlier quarter . 
The offer consists of $ 410.5 million in cash and the rest in notes . 
`` It 's not like the board can decide '' by itself , Mr. Sells said , adding , `` we 're indifferent to -LRB- the Bass -RRB- plan . 
But Mr. Schulte , the bondholders ' adviser , said Revco was dragging its feet in responding to the proposal . 
Mr. Schulte , who met with Acadia representatives on Oct. 10 , said , `` It 's certainly a responsible offer . 
Copper futures prices failed to extend Friday 's rally . 
Also , the premiums paid by the U.S. government on a purchase of copper for the U.S. Mint were lower than expected , and acted as a price depressant , analysts said . 
The mint purchases were at premiums about 4 1\/2 cents a pound above the respective prices for the copper . 
All this has led to prolonged selling in futures , mostly on the part of computer-guided funds . 
The reluctance of traders to buy contracts indicates that they have begun focusing on demand rather than supply . 
Japan normally depends heavily on the Highland Valley and Cananea mines as well as the Bougainville mine in Papua New Guinea . 
But as Highland Valley and Cananea begin operating , they are expected to resume their roles as Japan 's suppliers . 
It has n't been operating since May 15 because of attacks by native landowners . 
According to Drexel 's Mr. Demler , the potential strike is expected to be resolved quickly , which may be one reason why the situation did n't affect prices much . 
Mr. Demler said that stocks of copper in U.S. producers ' hands at the end of September were down 16,000 metric tons from August to 30,000 tons . 
Consumer stocks of copper in the U.S. fell to 44,000 tons at the end of September from 54,000 tons a month earlier , and stocks of copper held by consumers and merchants outside of the U.S. at the end of July stood at 123,000 tons , down from 125,000 tons in June . 
The prices of most corn , soybean and wheat futures contracts dropped slightly as farmers in the Midwest continued to rebuild stockpiles that were depleted by the 1988 drought . 
Futures prices rose slightly in a market filled with rumors that a new international coffee agreement might still be achieved . 
The December contract ended with a gain of 1.29 cents a pound at 74.35 cents . 
According to one analyst , prices opened higher because of reports over the weekend that Brazil and Colombia , at the Pan-American summit meeting in Costa Rica , had agreed to a reduction in their coffee export quotas for the sake of creating a new agreement . 
The reports , attributed to the Colombian minister of economic development , said Brazil would give up 500,000 bags of its quota and Colombia 200,000 bags , the analyst said . 
These reports were later denied by a high Brazilian official , who said Brazil was n't involved in any coffee discussions on quotas , the analyst said . 
Futures prices showed modest changes in light trading volume . 
December delivery gold eased 40 cents an ounce to $ 380.80 . 
December delivery gold eased 40 cents an ounce to $ 380.80 . December silver was off 3.7 cents an ounce at $ 5.2830 . 
The market turned quiet after rising sharply late last week , according to one analyst . 
Last week 's uncertainty in the stock market and a weaker dollar triggered a flight to safety , he said , but yesterday the market lacked such stimuli . 
When the Supreme Soviet passed laws on workers ' rights in May 1987 and on self-managing cooperatives a year later , some Western observers assumed Mikhail Gorbachev had launched the Soviet Union on a course that would lead inevitably to the creation of a market economy . 
For example , while the laws on individual labor activity allow a citizen to earn a living independent of the state , strict provisions are attached on how far this may lead to the development of a free market . 
Before becoming self-employed , or setting up a cooperative , workers must seek permission from the local soviet -LRB- council -RRB- . 
Permission is far from automatic 
Private dressmaking , for example , is allowed in 10 Soviet republics but banned by five 
All independent media activity is now illegal , which perhaps is not surprising , but so is the manufacture of perfume , cosmetics , household chemicals and sand candles . 
Earlier this month , the Supreme Soviet adopted two more resolutions restricting the freedom of cooperatives : The first enables the soviets to set prices for which goods may be sold 
Along with some other revealing indicators , these developments suggest that while Mr. Gorbachev wishes to move away from some rigid central controls , he is bent on creating economic structures of a kind that would scarcely find favor with the Austrian or Chicago schools of economic thought . 
Mr. Gorbachev has ruled out the use of the market to solve the problem of insufficient consumer goods . 
Having rejected central economic planning for economic reasons , and the market for fear of the social -LRB- political -RRB- consequences , Mr. Gorbachev seeks a `` third way '' that would combine the discipline and controls of the former with the economic benefits of the latter . 
The emergence of Russian corporatism had been anticipated in journalist George Urban 's introduction to a series of colloquies -- `` Can the Soviet System Survive Reform ? '' -- published this spring . 
The fascist concept of corporatism envisaged an `` organic '' society in which citizens were spiritually and morally unified , and prepared to sacrifice themselves for the nation . 
This unification was to be brought about through policies and institutions that would unite workers and employers with government in a fully integrated and `` harmonic '' society . 
The closeness of Soviet perestroika to the fascist social blueprint of Mussolini was evident when Mr. Gorbachev presented his economic vision to the Soviet Congress . 
Mr. Gorbachev is in a much stronger position to pursue the corporatist ideal than was Mussolini , who was never able to influence business giants such as Pirelli and Fiat . 
At the same time , he must give it sufficient freedom to provide the economic benefits so desperately needed . 
At the same time , the strategy requires that he deal effectively with those who seek genuine Western-style political pluralism . 
The most important development in Mr. Gorbachev 's policy for marginalizing the opposition movement is the claim that the U.S.S.R. also suffers from terrorism . 
An increasing number of references by the Soviet press to opposition groups now active in the U.S.S.R. , particularly the Democratic Union , allege that they show `` terroristic tendencies '' and claim that they would be prepared to kill in order to achieve their aims . 
Mr. Gorbachev would appear to see his central task , however , as that of ensuring that foundations of an alliance among labor , capital and the state are properly laid before the demands for a multiparty system reach a crescendo . 
The weaknesses in his plan do not lie in the political calculations -- Mr. Gorbachev is a consummate political leader , perhaps one of the greatest -- but in its economic prescription . 
Contrary to widespread belief , Mussolini failed to live up to his promise to make the trains run on time 
Through the first nine months of the year , the unadjusted total of all new construction was $ 199.6 billion , flat compared with a year earlier . 
The South was off 2 % after the first nine months , while the North Central region was up 3 % . 
`` At the end of the third quarter , there was still no evidence of renewed home building in response to the midyear decline of mortgage rates , '' Mr. Christie said . 
Contracting for non-residential buildings rose 10 % in September to an annualized $ 100.8 billion . 
Commercial and industrial construction rose sharply , partly because of three large projects , each expected to cost more than $ 100 million . 
In addition , Moody 's said it downgraded Financiere Credit Suisse-First Boston 's senior and subordinated Swiss debt to single-A-2 from single-A-1 and lowered Financiere CSFB N.V. 's junior subordinated perpetual Eurodebt , guaranteed by Financiere Credit Suisse -- First Boston , to single-A-3 from single-A-2 . 
A spokesman for CS First Boston said : `` We remain committed to a full range of businesses , including merchant banking . 
A spokesman for CS First Boston said : `` We remain committed to a full range of businesses , including merchant banking . We think that the ratings revision is unfortunate but not unexpected . 
First Boston 's merchant banking risks mounted last month as highly leveraged Campeau Corp. , First Boston 's most lucrative client of the decade , was hit by a cash squeeze and the high-risk junk bond market tumbled . 
First Boston incurred millions of dollars of losses on Campeau securities it owned as well as on special securities it could n't sell . 
Moody 's said its rating changes actions `` reflect CS First Boston 's aggressive merchant banking risk as well as the risk profile of its current merchant banking exposures . '' 
`` These two exposures alone represent a very substantial portion of CS First Boston 's equity , '' Moody 's said . 
Independent providers of financial information , including Quotron , have been under some pressure as the major securities houses try to regain their hold on the production of market data and on the related revenue . 
The job cuts , to be made in a number of areas at various job levels , are `` a streamlining of operations , '' a spokeswoman said . 
The sweep by the A's , whose pitchers and home-run hitters dominated the injury-prone Giants , will only make things worse for ABC , owned by Capital Cities\/ABC Inc . 
It is n't clear how much those losses may widen because of the short Series . 
But some industry executives said ABC , in anticipation of a four-game sweep , limited its losses by jacking up the number of commercials it aired in the third and fourth games . 
The Series typically is among the highest-rated sports events on television . 
Last year 's series , broadcast by General Electric Co. 's NBC , was the lowest-rated Series in four years 
ABC 's hurdle was even higher this year with two teams from the same area . 
The Series got off to a lukewarm start Oct. 14 with a 16.2 % rating 
The Series got off to a lukewarm start Oct. 14 with a 16.2 % rating ; the next night it drew 17.4 % of homes . 
Some people had hoped ABC 's ratings would go up because of the intense focus on the event in the aftermath of the earthquake . 
But interest instead decreased . 
The Dow Jones Industrial Average gained 6.76 points to 2603.48 in light trading after losing more than 92 points last week . 
Bond prices continued to edge higher in anticipation of more news showing a slower economy . 
Trading volume on the New York Stock Exchange dwindled to only 126.6 million shares yesterday as major brokerage firms continued to throw in the towel on program trading . 
Yet that did n't eliminate program trading from the market . 
The first is Wednesday 's survey of purchasing managers , considered a good indicator of how the nation 's manufacturing sector fared in October . 
The first is Wednesday 's survey of purchasing managers , considered a good indicator of how the nation 's manufacturing sector fared in October . The other is Friday 's measure of October employment , an indicator of the broader economy 's health . 
Bond prices crept higher . 
The Treasury 's benchmark 30-year bond gained about an eighth of a point , or about $ 1.25 for each $ 1,000 face amount . 
The dollar gained . 
In late New York trading the dollar was quoted at 1.8340 marks and 141.90 yen , compared with 1.8300 marks and 141.65 yen Friday . 
Because the companies have lacked office computers considered standard equipment in the U.S. and Western Europe , Japanese corporations ' reputation as hi-tech powerhouses is only half right . 
Now , the personal-computer revolution is finally reaching Japan . 
Kawasaki-Rikuso , a freight company , set up its own software subsidiary this year and is spending nearly a year 's profit to more than double the computer terminals at its main office . 
Overall , PC sales in Japan in the first half of 1989 were 34 % higher than in the year-earlier period . 
And with a labor shortage and intense competitive pressure to improve efficiency , more and more Japanese companies are concluding that they have no choice . 
`` We have too many people in our home offices , '' says Yoshio Hatakeyama , the president of the Japan Management Association . 
But it also offers opportunities 
But it also offers opportunities ; Americans are well poised to supply the weapons . 
After years of talking about selling in Japan , more and more U.S. companies are seriously pouring in . 
Apple Computer Inc. has doubled its staff here over the past year . 
Apple Computer Inc. has doubled its staff here over the past year . Lotus Development Corp. has slashed the lag between U.S. and Japan product introductions to six months from three years . 
But the Japanese have to go a long way to catch up . 
Typical is one office of the Ministry of International Trade and Industry 's Machinery and Information Industries Bureau -- the main bureaucracy overseeing the computer industry . 
While American PC sales have averaged roughly 25 % annual growth since 1984 and West European sales a whopping 40 % , Japanese sales were flat for most of that time . 
Moreover , Japanese offices tend to use computers less efficiently than American offices do . 
In the U.S. , PCs commonly perform many tasks and plug into a broad network . 
But the machines are n't on employees ' desks 
Some machines make charts for presentations . 
To transfer information from one to the other , employees make printouts and enter the data manually . 
Others analyze the data . To transfer information from one to the other , employees make printouts and enter the data manually . To transmit charts to branch offices , they use a fax machine . Meanwhile , a woman sitting next to a new Fujitsu terminal writes stock-market information on a chart with a pencil and adds it up with a hand calculator . Some machines make charts for presentations . 
In the U.S. , more than half the PC software sold is either for spreadsheets or for database analysis , according to Lotus . 
In the U.S. , more than half the PC software sold is either for spreadsheets or for database analysis , according to Lotus . In Japan , those functions account for only about a third of the software market . 
Machines dedicated solely to word processing , which have all but disappeared in the U.S. , are still more common in Japan than PCs . 
In the U.S. , one-fifth of the office PCs are hooked up to some sort of network . 
`` Computers here are used for data gathering , '' says Roger J. Boisvert , who manages the integrated-technologies group in McKinsey & Co. 's Tokyo office . 
Some Japanese operations , such as securities-trading rooms , may be ahead of their American counterparts , he says , but `` basically , there 's little analysis done on computers in Japan . '' 
But healthy skepticism is only a small reason for Japan 's PC lag . 
Because the Japanese `` alphabet '' is so huge , Japan has no history of typewriter use , and so `` keyboard allergy , '' especially among older workers , remains a common affliction . 
While most American employees have their own private space , Japanese `` salarymen '' usually share large , common tables and rely heavily on old-fashioned personal contact . 
Besides , a computer processing the Japanese language needs a huge memory and much processing capability , while the screen and printer need far better definition to depict accurately the intricate symbols . 
But the complex language is n't the only reason . 
For the past decade , NEC Corp. has owned more than half the Japanese PC market and ruled it with near-monopoly power . 
But early on , IBM offered its basic design to anybody wanting to copy it . 
Dozens of small companies did , swiftly establishing a standard operating system . 
If a record industry lacked a common standard , Sony CD owners could listen to a Sony version of Madonna 's `` Like a Prayer '' but not one made for a Panasonic player . 
That is the state of Japan 's computer industry . 
NEC wo n't release its code , and every one of the dozen or so makers has its own proprietary operating system -- all incompatible with each other . 
Meanwhile , the big players have n't tried to copy the NEC standard . 
Corporate pride as well as the close ties common among Japanese manufacturers help explain why . 
Most rivals `` have a working relationship with NEC , often through cross-licensing of technology , '' the Japan Personal Computer Software Association noted recently . 
`` They hesitate to market NEC-compatible machines 
The result , according to many analysts , is higher prices and less innovation . 
While tens of thousands of software packages using the IBM standard are available in the U.S. , they say only about 8,000 are written for NEC . 
In Japan , `` software is four to five years behind the U.S. because hardware is four to five years behind , because NEC is enjoying a monopoly , '' complains Kazuhiko Nishi , the president of Ascii Corp. , one of Japan 's leading PC-magazine publishing and software companies . 
`` There are no price wars , no competition . '' 
An NEC spokeswoman responds that prices are higher in Japan because customers put a greater emphasis on quality and service than they do in the U.S. . 
But the market is changing . 
The government is funding several projects to push PC use . 
In the private sector , practically every major company is setting explicit goals to increase employees ' exposure to computers . 
Toyota Motor Corp. 's sales offices in Japan have one-tenth the computers per employee that its own U.S. offices do 
Toyota Motor Corp. 's sales offices in Japan have one-tenth the computers per employee that its own U.S. offices do ; over the next five years , it is aiming for rough parity . 
By increasing the number of PCs it uses from 66 to 1,000 , Omron Tateishi Electronics Co. , of Kyoto , hopes not only to make certain tasks easier but also to transform the way the company is run . 
Meanwhile , more computer makers now are competing for the new business . 
Seiko Epson Corp. , a newcomer to the industry , fought off a legal challenge and started selling NEC clones last year . 
It has won about 15 % of the retail PC market . Seiko Epson Corp. , a newcomer to the industry , fought off a legal challenge and started selling NEC clones last year . 
In a country where elbow room is scarce , laptop machines will take a large portion of the industry 's future growth . 
Toshiba Corp. busted open that sector this summer with a notebook-sized machine that retails for less than 200,000 yen -LRB- under $ 1,500 -RRB- -- one of the smallest , cheapest PCs available in the country . 
Many of the companies are even dropping their traditional independence and trying to band together to create some sort of standard . 
Two years ago , most of the smaller makers joined under the Microsoft Corp. umbrella to adopt a version of the American IBM AT standard . 
But it could also help American companies , which also are starting to try to open the market . 
As with many other goods , the American share of Japan 's PC market is far below that in the rest of the world . 
Though no formal trade barriers exist , the Japanese computer industry is difficult for outsiders to enter . 
`` If it were an open market , we would have been in in 1983 or 1984 , '' says Eckhard Pfeiffer , who heads Compaq Computer Corp. 's European and international operations . 
His company , without any major effort , sells more machines in China than in Japan . 
But the Americans are also to blame . 
They long made little effort here . 
IBM , though long a leader in the Japanese mainframe business , did n't introduce its first PC in Japan until five years after NEC did , and that was n't compatible even with the U.S. IBM standard . 
Critics also say American companies charge too much . 
But the U.S. companies are redoubling their efforts . 
Apple recently hired its first Japanese president , luring away an official of Toshiba 's European operations , as well as a whole Japanese top-management team . 
Earlier this year , it introduced a much more powerful kanji operating system and a kanji laser printer . 
From a reading of the somewhat scant English-language medical literature on RU-486 , the French abortion pill emerges as one of the creepiest concoctions around . 
Abortion via the pill is far more of an ordeal than conventional surgical abortion . 
It is time-consuming -LRB- the abortion part alone lasts three days , and the clinical part comprises a week 's worth of visits -RRB- , bloody -LRB- one woman in a Swedish trial required a transfusion , although for most it resembles a menstrual period , with bleeding lasting an average of 10 days -RRB- , and painful -LRB- many women require analgesic shots to ease them through -RRB- . 
Timing is of the essence with RU-486 . 
It is most effective taken about a week after a woman misses her menstrual period up through the seventh week of pregnancy , when it is markedly less effective . 
But `` safe , '' in the definition of Marie Bass of the Reproductive Health Technologies Project , means `` there 's been no evidence so far of mortality . '' 
The drug seems to suppress ovulation for three to seven months after it is taken . 
All the published studies recommend that women on whom the drug proves ineffective not carry the pregnancy to term but undergo a surgical abortion . 
Some abortion advocates have been asking themselves this very question . 
RU-486 `` probably represents a technical advance in an area where none is needed , or at least not very much , '' said Phillip Stubblefield , president of the National Abortion Federation , at a reproductive health conference in 1986 . 
In the year since the pill went on the French market , the National Organization for Women and its offshoot , former NOW President Eleanor Smeal 's Fund for a Feminist Majority , have been trying to browbeat the U.S. pharmaceutical industry into getting involved . 
Following the feminist and population-control lead has been a generally bovine press . 
A June 1988 article in Mother Jones magazine is typical of the general level of media ignorance . 
`` It also means she will never have to know whether she had actually been pregnant . '' `` For a woman whose period is late , using RU-486 means no waiting , no walking past picket lines at abortion clinics , and no feet up in stirrups for surgery , '' burbles health writer Laura Fraser . 
RU-486 is being administered in France only under strict supervision in the presence of a doctor . 
Furthermore , because timing is so critical with RU-486 , she will learn , via a pelvic examination and ultrasound , not only that she is pregnant , but just how pregnant she is . 
Furthermore , because timing is so critical with RU-486 , she will learn , via a pelvic examination and ultrasound , not only that she is pregnant , but just how pregnant she is . No doctor who fears malpractice liability would likely expose a non-pregnant patient to the risk of hemorrhaging . 
Many women may even see the dead embryo they have expelled , a sight the surgical-abortion industry typically spares them . 
At the behest of pro-choice members of Congress , a four-year reauthorization bill for Title X federal family-planning assistance now contains a $ 10 million grant for `` development , evaluation and bringing to the marketplace of new improved contraceptive devices , drugs and methods . '' 
We do not know whether RU-486 will be as disastrous as some of the earlier fertility-control methods released to unblinking , uncritical cheers from educated people who should have known better . 
Mrs. Allen is a senior editor of Insight magazine . 
More than half of the `` newly found '' net exports were from just a few service-sector categories . 
Nearly 10 years ago , representatives of service-sector companies worked out a plan with the Commerce Department to improve the data on service-sector exports . 
Over time , through benchmark surveys , the corrected data on service exports and imports have been gathered . 
Combined with recalculations and revisions in other trade areas , the value of U.S. net exports that had not previously been recorded was about $ 20 billion a year . 
These revised figures also may explain some of the recent strength of the dollar . 
Too early to tell , but a trade deficit that is significantly smaller than we imagined does suggest a review of our trade posture . 
The buy-out group is also entitled to $ 16 million to repay a fund created by the pilots union for an employee stock ownership plan . 
At the New York Stock Exchange , which has been buffeted by complaints from angry individual investors and the exchange 's own listed companies , Chairman John J. Phelan Jr. held an emergency meeting with senior partners of some of the Big Board 's 49 stock specialist firms . 
The specialists , a trader said , were `` livid '' about Mr. Phelan 's recent remarks that sophisticated computer-driven trading strategies are `` here to stay . '' 
A Big Board spokesman would only say , `` We 're working the problem and looking at the issue and meeting with a broad number of customers and constituents to get their views and ideas on the issue . '' 
The decision by Merrill , the nation 's largest securities firm , represents the biggest retreat yet from program trading . 
Merrill 's move is one of the most sweeping program-trading pullbacks of recent days , because the big securities firm will no longer execute stock-index arbitrage trades for customers . 
In stock-index arbitrage , traders buy and sell large amounts of stocks with offsetting trades in stock-index futures and options . 
Last Thursday , PaineWebber Group Inc. also said it would cease index arbitrage altogether , but the firm was n't as big an index arbitrager as Merrill is . 
Kidder made an abrupt about-face on program trading yesterday , after a special meeting between the firm 's president and chief executive officer , Michael Carpenter , and its senior managers . 
Just a week ago , Mr. Carpenter staunchly defended index arbitrage at Kidder , the most active index-arbitrage trading firm on the stock exchange this year . 
But yesterday , Mr. Carpenter said big institutional investors , which he would n't identify , `` told us they would n't do business with firms '' that continued to do index arbitrage for their own accounts . 
Kidder so far this year has executed a monthly average of 37.8 million shares in index-arbitrage trading , and is second only to Morgan Stanley in overall program trading , which includes index arbitrage . 
`` Our decision had nothing to do with any pressure Mr. Welch received , '' Mr. Carpenter said . 
Meanwhile , Bear Stearns Chairman and Chief Executive Alan C. Greenberg said his firm will continue stock-index arbitrage for its clients . 
At the firm 's annual meeting last night , he told shareholders that index arbitrage wo n't go away , despite the public outcry . 
`` If they think they are going to stop index arbitrage by causing a few Wall Street firms to quit , they are crazy , '' Mr. Greenberg said . 
And there was speculation yesterday that Fidelity Investments and other large mutual-fund companies might soon follow the lead of Kemper Corp. and other institutions in cutting off trading business to securities firms that do program trading . 
Michael J.C. Roth , USAA executive vice president , called program trading `` mindless . '' 
A program-bashing move is clearly on . 
`` We are reaching the moment of truth '' on Wall Street , said Rep. Edward J. Markey -LRB- D. , Mass. -RRB- , chairman of the House subcommittee on telecommunications and finance . 
An ancient red-figured Greek kylix , or drinking cup , was recovered backstage at Sotheby 's this spring and has been returned to the Manhattan couple who lost it in a burglary three years ago . 
Robert Guy , an associate curator at the Princeton Art Museum , was previewing a June antiquities sale at the auction house when he recognized the kylix , which he , as a specialist in Attic pottery and a careful reader of the Stolen Art Alert in `` IFAR Reports , '' knew was stolen . 
The timing of his visit was fortuitous 
The timing of his visit was fortuitous ; the man who had brought it in for an estimate had returned to collect it and was waiting in the hall . 
To confirm Mr. Guy 's identification , Sotheby 's and IFAR exchanged photos by fax , and the waiting man , apparently innocent of knowledge that the kylix was stolen , agreed to release it . 
The cup had been insured , and in short order it was given over to a Chubb & Son representative . 
A former curator of the Museum of Cartoon Art in Rye Brook , N.Y. , pleaded guilty in July to stealing and selling original signed and dated comic strips , among them 29 Dick Tracy strips by Chester Gould , 77 Prince Valiant Sunday cartoons by Hal Foster , and a dozen Walt Disney animation celluloids , according to Barbara Hammond , the museum 's director . 
He sold them well below market value to raise cash `` to pay off mounting credit-card debts , '' incurred to buy presents for his girlfriend , his attorney , Philip Russell , told IFAR . 
But on Oct. 6 , he had reason to celebrate . 
Instead , New York City police seized the stolen goods , and Mr. Krisher avoided jail . 
The air-waybill number was changed en route , and paper work showing that the crates had cleared customs was misplaced , so it was a week before three of the four crates could be located in a bonded warehouse and the Gauguin discovered missing . 
Although Heathrow authorities have been watching a group of allegedly crooked baggage handlers for some time , the Gauguin may be `` lost . '' 
Officials at the University of Virginia Art Museum certainly would agree . 
Their museum had purchased an Attic black-figured column krater and shipped it from London . 
It was reported stolen in transit en route to Washington , D.C. , in February . 
Two Mexican college dropouts , not professional art thieves , have been arrested for a 1985 Christmas Eve burglary from the National Museum of Anthropology in Mexico City . 
About 140 Mayan , Aztec , Mixtec and Zapotec objects , including some of Mexico 's best-known archaeological treasures , were taken . 
The government offered a reward for the return of the antiquities , but routine police work led to the recovery . 
Then they took the art to Acapulco and began to trade some of it for cocaine . 
Among other happy news bulletins from the German Democratic Republic , the Leipzig Museum of Fine Arts announced that it has recovered `` Cemetery in the Snow , '' a painting by the German Romantic painter Caspar David Friedrich . 
The precious canvas , cut from its frame at the time of the theft , was found in nearby Jena , hidden in the upholstery of an easy chair in the home of the girlfriend of one of the thieves . 
Trompe l'oeil painting is meant to fool the eye , but Robert Lawrence Trotter , 35 , of Kennett Square , Pa. , took his fooling seriously . 
Mr. Trotter 's painting showed a wall of wood boards with painted ribbons tacked down in a rectangle 
The dealers immediately showed their new acquisition to an expert and came to see it as a fake . 
They persuaded Mr. Trotter to take it back and , with the help of the FBI , taped their conversation with him . 
As a result of the adhesive problem on the Ford Escort subcompacts , windshields may easily separate from the car during frontal impact , the U.S. auto maker said . 
A Ford spokesman said the Dearborn , Mich. , auto maker is n't aware of any injuries caused by the windshield problem . 
Mazda and Ford said a combination of limited crankcase ventilation and improper maintenance could cause engine oil in some of the Mercury Tracers and Mazda 323s to deteriorate more rapidly than normal , causing increased engine noise or reduced engine life . 
For owners who have followed the recommended oil maintenance schedule , Mazda will extend to five years or 60,000 miles the warranty term for engine damage due to abnormal engine oil deterioration . 
The normal term for the 1986 and 1987 model 323 is two years or 24,000 miles 
The normal term for the 1986 and 1987 model 323 is two years or 24,000 miles ; the term for the 1988 323 is three years or 50,000 miles . 
Separately , Ford said it will offer $ 750 cash rebates to buyers of its 1990-model Ford Bronco sport utility vehicle . 
It said it will also offer buyers the option of financing as low as 6.9 % on 24-month loans . 
A few months later , under pressure from the United Steelworkers of America , LTV instituted a new program to provide retirement benefits similar to those in the terminated plans . 
The agency also concluded that LTV 's financial status had improved while it was under reorganization . 
In May , a federal appeals court in New York agreed that the agency acted unlawfully . 
In Dallas , LTV said that it was disappointed that the court agreed to hear the case because it believes the move will further delay its Chapter 11 proceedings . 
The commercial was absolutely silent . 
Please contribute what you can , '' the ad said . 
The Nissan logo flashed on the screen for a moment , and then came a taped plea for donations from former President Reagan -- followed by the silent print telling viewers where to call . 
Sometimes , the ads attempt to raise money 
Sometimes , the ads attempt to raise money ; always , they try to boost good will . 
But the strategy can backfire 
That has n't deterred plenty of companies . 
Along with Nissan , Grand Metropolitan PLC 's Burger King and New York Life Insurance have tied ads to Red Cross donations . 
Other ads do n't bother with the fundraising 
At Nissan , `` we felt we wanted to do something to help them gather money , and we had this airtime on Monday Night Football , '' explains Brooke Mitzel , a Nissan advertising creative manager . 
The ads are just the latest evidence of how television advertising is getting faster on the draw . 
While TV commercials typically take weeks to produce , advertisers in the past couple of years have learned to turn on a dime , to crash out ads in days or even hours . 
The big brokerage houses learned the art of the instant commercial after the 1987 crash , when they turned out reassuring ads inviting investors right back into the stock market . 
They trotted out another crop of instant commercials after the sudden market dip a few weeks ago . 
But as advertisers latch onto disasters with increasing frequency , they risk hurting themselves as much as helping the cause . 
They chance alienating the customers they hope to woo by looking like opportunistic sharks . 
`` It can backfire because companies can step across the line and go too far , be too pushy , '' agrees Gary Stibel , a principal with New England Consulting Group , Westport , Conn . 
Still , he says that only a few of the quake-related campaigns have been `` tasteless '' and that `` the majority have been truly beneficial to the people who need the help . 
The companies running the disaster ads certainly do n't see themselves as ambulance chasers , either . 
Burger King 's chief executive officer , Barry Gibbons , stars in ads saying that the fast-food chain will donate 25 cents to the Red Cross for every purchase of a BK Doubles hamburger . 
The campaign , which started last week and runs through Nov. 23 , with funds earmarked for both the quake and Hugo , `` was Barry 's idea , '' a spokeswoman says . 
`` Barry felt very committed . 
While the campaign was Mr. Gibbons 's idea , however , he wo n't be paying for it 
Toyota 's upscale Lexus division , a sponsor of the World Series , also put in a plug for Red Cross donations in a World Series game it sponsored . 
And New York Life made a plea for Red Cross donations in newspaper ads in the San Francisco area , latching onto the coattails of the Red Cross 's impeccable reputation : `` The Red Cross has been helping people for 125 years . 
It can be hoped that Spanish Prime Minister Felipe Gonzalez will draw the right conclusion from his narrow election victory Sunday . 
A strong challenge from the far left , the Communist coalition Izquierda Unida , failed to topple him . 
He should consider his victory a mandate to continue his growth-oriented economic reforms and not a demand that he move further left . 
The far left had some good issues even if it did not have good programs for dealing with them . 
It could point to plenty of ailments that the Spanish economic rejuvenation so far has failed to cure . 
Unemployment still is officially recorded at 16.5 % , the highest rate in Europe , although actual joblessness may be lower . 
Unemployment still is officially recorded at 16.5 % , the highest rate in Europe , although actual joblessness may be lower . Housing is scarce and public services -- the court system , schools , mail service , telephone network and the highways -- are in disgraceful condition . 
The left also is critical of the style of the Socialist government -- a remarkable parallel to the situation in Britain . 
Mr. Gonzalez and his colleagues , particularly the finance minister , Carlos Solchaga , are charged with having abandoned their socialist principles and with having become arrogant elitists who refuse even to go on television -LRB- controlled by the state -RRB- to face their accusers . 
They are very considerable 
They are very considerable : Since 1986 , when Spain joined the European Community , its gross domestic product has grown at an annual average of 4.6 % -- the fastest in the EC . 
They are very considerable : Since 1986 , when Spain joined the European Community , its gross domestic product has grown at an annual average of 4.6 % -- the fastest in the EC . In that time more than 1.2 million jobs have been created and the official jobless rate has been pushed below 17 % from 21 % . 
They are very considerable : Since 1986 , when Spain joined the European Community , its gross domestic product has grown at an annual average of 4.6 % -- the fastest in the EC . In that time more than 1.2 million jobs have been created and the official jobless rate has been pushed below 17 % from 21 % . A 14 % inflation rate dropped below 5 % . 
Mr. Gonzalez is not quite a closet supply-side revolutionary , however . 
Yet the best the far-left could do was not enough to deter the biggest voting bloc -- nearly 40 % -- from endorsing the direction Spain is taking . 
Now he can go further . 
He should do more to reduce tax rates on wealth and income , in recognition of the fact that those cuts yield higher , not lower , revenues . 
The voters delivered Mr. Gonzalez a third mandate for his successes . 
They , as well as numerous Latin American and East European countries that hope to adopt elements of the Spanish model , are supporting the direction Spain is taking . 
Oh , that terrible Mr. Ortega . 
Conservatives are the faction in U.S. politics which always said that Mr. Ortega and his friends do n't want to hold an election in Nicaragua . 
Liberals are the faction that says , Give peace a chance 
We suspect Daniel Ortega knows the difference between a blunder and a strategy . 
He knows that making George Bush look silly in a photograph with him will trigger Noriegan fulminations , and that announcing an end to the liberals ' cease-fire will produce mainly their concern over the Contras ' military activities in northern Nicaragua . 
Mr. Ortega understands better than those who worry about his behavior that what sustains the Sandinista movement is not democratic peace , but nondemocratic unpeace . 
The biotechnology concern said Spanish authorities must still clear the price for the treatment , but that it expects to receive such approval by year end . 
Four other countries in Europe have approved Proleukin in recent months . 
In recent testimony on Capitol Hill , Treasury officials said they were considering the new reporting requirements , and the expected publication of the proposal in the Federal Register today is the first official step toward creating final regulations . 
Among the possibilities the Treasury is considering are requirements that banks keep records identifying the originators and recipients of international wire transfers . 
But wire transfers from a standing account -- including those bigger than $ 10,000 -- are n't reported . 
Yesterday the company said it had filed a request with the Securities and Exchange Commission to withdraw the registration statement regarding the proposed swap . 
Despite some early computer-guided program buying , the Nasdaq composite fell 1.39 to 451.37 . 
The Nasdaq bank index fell 5.00 to 432.61 , while the insurance index fell 3.56 to 528.56 , and the `` other finance '' index dropped 3.27 to 529.32 . 
Profit-taking accounted for much of the slide in OTC stock prices , according to David Mills , senior vice president of Boston Company Advisers . 
Tax-loss sellers , those investors who sell loss-making stocks so they can deduct their losses from this year 's income , are also getting out , Mr. Mills said . 
`` The stocks that have been the best are having big pullbacks , and the ones that have been the worst are getting clobbered , '' Mr. Mills said . 
The selling by money managers and individual investors is turning traders bearish as well . 
`` We are advising a lot of our clients to make moves that make sense to them , rather than waiting until the last minute , because things have been so volatile , '' said William Sulya , head of OTC trading at A.G. Edwards & Sons in St. Louis . 
Weisfield 's surged 14 to 53 after agreeing in principle to be acquired by a unit of Ratners Group for $ 50 a share . 
Mid-State Federal Savings Bank advanced 1 1\/2 to 20 1\/4 after it said it is in talks with a possible acquirer . 
Jaguar assumed its recently customary place on the OTC most active list as its American depository receipts gained 1\/4 to 11 7\/8 on volume of 1.2 million shares and Daimler-Benz joined the list of companies interested in the British car maker . 
Meanwhile , General Motors and Ford Motor continue their pursuit of the company . 
ShowBiz Pizza Time gained 1 1\/2 to 13 . 
The company reported third-quarter operating profit of 37 cents a share , compared with 12 cents a share a year earlier . 
Employers Casualty , which reported a $ 53.9 million third-quarter loss late Friday , fell 2 1\/4 to 13 3\/4 . 
The loss was largely due to a $ 55.2 million addition to reserves . Employers Casualty , which reported a $ 53.9 million third-quarter loss late Friday , fell 2 1\/4 to 13 3\/4 . 
Old Stone fell 1 5\/8 to 13 1\/2 . 
The loss came after a $ 23.3 million addition to loan-loss reserves . 
That is for the future . 
`` It 's a super-exciting set of discoveries , '' says Bert Vogelstein , a Johns Hopkins University researcher who has just found a gene pivotal to the triggering of colon cancer . 
`` Only a decade ago cancer was a black box about which we knew nothing at the molecular level . 
Scientists call the new class of genes tumor-suppressors , or simply anti-cancer genes . 
Oncogenes must be present for a cell to become malignant , but researchers have found them in normal as well as in cancerous cells , suggesting that oncogenes do n't cause cancer by themselves . 
In recent months , researchers have come to believe the two types of cancer genes work in concert 
Either copy can make the proteins needed to control cell growth , so for cancer to arise , both copies must be impaired . 
The Dedham , Mass. , couple knew even before Bonnie became pregnant in 1987 that any child of theirs had a 50 % chance of being at risk for retinoblastoma , an eye cancer that occurs about once every 20,000 births . 
A test using new `` genetic probes '' showed that little Will Quinlan had not inherited a damaged retinoblastoma supressor gene and , therefore , faced no more risk than other children of developing the rare cancer . 
This test was the first to predict reliably whether an individual could expect to develop cancer . 
Equally important , the initial discovery of the gene that controls retinal cell growth , made by a Boston doctor named Thaddeus Dryja , has opened a field of cancer study , which in recent months has exploded . 
`` It turns out that studying a tragic but uncommon tumor made possible some fundamental insights about the most basic workings of cancer , '' says Samuel Broder , director of the National Cancer Institute . 
To date , scientists have fingered two of these cancer-suppressors . 
Researchers say the inactivation of tumor-suppressor genes , alone or in combination , appears crucial to the development of such scourges as cancer of the brain , the skin , kidney , prostate , and cervix . 
The story of tumor-suppressor genes goes back to the 1970s , when a pediatrician named Alfred G. Knudson Jr. proposed that retinoblastoma stemmed from two separate genetic defects . 
He theorized that in the eye cancer , an infant inherited a damaged copy of a gene from one parent and a normal copy from the other . 
Dr. Knudson found that some children with the eye cancer had inherited a damaged copy of chromosome No. 13 from a parent who had had the disease . 
Under a microscope he could actually see that a bit of chromosome 13 was missing . 
Then , a scientific team led by molecular geneticist Webster Cavenee , then at the University of Utah , found the answer . 
The finding riveted medicine . 
It was the first time anyone had showed that the loss of both copies of the same gene could lead to the eruption of a cancer . 
`` It was extraordinarily satisfying , '' says Dr. Knudson , now at Fox Chase Cancer Research Center in Philadelphia . 
But in Baltimore , Dr. Vogelstein , a young molecular biologist at Johns Hopkins Medical School , believed Dr. Knudson was right , and set out to repeat the Cavenee experiment in cells from other cancers . 
Dr. Vogelstein next turned his attention to colon cancer , the second biggest cancer killer in the U.S. after lung cancer . 
He believed colon cancer might also arise from multiple `` hits '' on cancer suppressor genes , because it often seems to develop in stages . 
They began uncovering a confusing variety of genetic deletions , some existing only in benign polyps , others in malignant cells and many in both polyps and malignant cells . 
Gradually , a coherent picture of cancer development emerged . 
If both copies of a certain gene were knocked out , benign polyps would develop . 
If both copies of a second gene were then deleted , the polyps would progress to malignancy . 
Their report galvanized other molecular biologists . 
But Dr. Vogelstein had yet to nail the identity of the gene that , if damaged , flipped a colon cell into full-blown malignancy . 
They focused on chromosome 17 . 
For months the Johns Hopkins researchers , using gene probes , experimentally crawled down the length of chromosome 17 , looking for the smallest common bit of genetic material lost in all tumor cells . 
When they found it last winter , Dr. Vogelstein was dubious that the search was over . 
His doubts stemmed from the fact that several years earlier a Princeton University researcher , Arnold Levine , had found in experiments with mice that a gene called p53 could transform normal cells into cancerous ones . 
Evidence now is emerging that the p53 suppressor gene is involved in other cancers , too . 
Researchers in Edinburgh , Scotland , have found that in 23 of 38 breast tumors , one copy of chromosome 17 was mutated at the spot where gene p53 lies . 
The p53 gene has just been implicated in lung cancer . 
At the same time , the Johns Hopkins team and others are rushing to pinpoint other tumor-suppressor genes . 
Dr. Vogelstein hopes soon to isolate one on chromosome 18 , also involved in colon cancer . 
Where these discoveries will lead , scientists can only speculate . 
Some researchers say new cancer drugs to slow or reverse tumor growth may be based on the suppressor proteins normally produced by the genes . 
The idea would be to administer to patients the growth-controlling proteins made by healthy versions of the damaged genes . 
Known as Easy Eggs , the product has disappointed investors . 
Michael wo n't confirm the identities of any Easy Egg customers , nor will it say much of anything else . 
Two Minneapolis shareholder suits in the past month have accused top officers of making `` various untrue statements . '' 
But at least Burger King has signed on , and says that by year end it wo n't be using any shell eggs . 
Still , caution is advisable . 
But Burger King operators independently confirm using Michael 's product . 
Other institutional users reportedly include Marriott , which is moving away from fresh eggs on a region-by-region basis . 
Michael Foods has attracted a good many short-sellers , the people who sell borrowed shares in a bet that a stock price will drop and allow the return of cheaper shares to the lender . 
-LRB- The company did n't put out a public announcement . 
Analyst Robin Young of John Kinnard & Co. , Minneapolis , calls himself `` the last remaining bull on the stock . '' 
He argues that Michael Foods is misunderstood 
Prospective competition is one problem . 
Michael shares closed at 13 3\/4 yesterday in national over-the-counter trading . 
But dry growing conditions in the Red River Valley of Minnesota and North Dakota are pushing spot prices of potatoes beyond what Michael contracted to pay last spring . 
Yesterday , Quebecor Inc. , a Montreal printing , publishing and forest-products company 53%-owned by Mr. Peladeau , agreed to acquire Maxwell Communication Corp. 's U.S. printing subsidiary , Maxwell Graphics Inc. , for $ 500 million in cash and securities . 
But the transaction is just Mr. Peladeau 's latest step in a larger design : to build Quebecor through acquisitions into an integrated paper , publishing and printing concern with a reach throughout North America . 
He already has achieved vertical integration on a limited scale 
He adds : `` I think this is a great strategic move for Quebecor . 
Mr. Peladeau says he is n't trying to catch up to Donnelley , which has annual sales of over $ 3 billion . 
`` Size does n't matter , '' Mr. Peladeau says . 
Some of Mr. Peladeau 's ventures , including an earlier push into the U.S. market , have n't paid off on the bottom line . 
Quebecor started the Philadelphia Journal , a daily tabloid , in 1977 and closed it three years later . 
More recently , some former Quebecor executives started their own printing company , specializing in printing and distributing advertising circulars . 
Mr. Peladeau took his first big gamble 25 years ago , when he took advantage of a strike at La Presse , then Montreal 's dominant French-language newspaper , to launch the Journal de Montreal . 
Still , Mr. Peladeau stuck with the venture . 
Mr. Peladeau has never made any apologies for publishing the tabloid , a brash mix of crime and sports . 
`` I 've read Balzac , '' he answers critics . 
Quebecor also publishes a second tabloid in Montreal , the struggling 18-month-old Montreal Daily News ; dailies in Quebec City and Winnipeg , Manitoba ; and dozens of weeklies covering most of Quebec . 
The new , as yet unnamed , subsidiary will combine Quebecor 's existing printing unit and Maxwell Graphics . 
Quebecor will own 57.5 % of the new subsidiary . 
The Maxwell deal is Quebecor 's second big printing acquisition in just over a year . 
Last October , Quebecor bought 23 Canadian printing plants from BCE Inc. , a Montreal telecommunications , manufacturing , energy and real estate company . 
In Montreal , Quebecor 's multiple voting Class A stock closed at C$ 16.375 -LRB- US$ 13.94 -RRB- , down 12.5 Canadian cents . 
The U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission sued New York state for age discrimination against appointed state judges . 
Separately , the commission intervened in a Connecticut state judge 's age-bias suit in federal court in New Haven . 
`` The issue is n't age -- age is just a number . 
`` I 've had no problems performing my duties and responsibilities . '' 
The suit 's impact on New York may be narrow , however . 
Most New York judges are elected , and the federal age-discrimination law does n't apply to elected officials , said James L. Lee , regional attorney for the EEOC in New York . 
In February , Mr. Thornburgh announced his plan to abolish the units . 
Opponents say Mr. Thornburgh 's plan will needlessly break up longtime , tightly knit crime-fighting units that have successfully prosecuted major organized-crime figures . 
Some former strike-force personnel say the units have already begun to break up . 
But Mr. Runkel contends there has been no exodus of strike-force lawyers . 
Some congressional leaders intend to continue to fight for independent strike forces . 
A spokesman for Sen. Edward M. Kennedy -LRB- D. , Mass . -RRB- says Mr. Thornburgh would be required to reinstate the units next year if an proposed omnibus crime bill is passed . 
`` We will vigorously oppose the bill , '' he says . 
Shelly Hancock , a male county court judge in Houston , refused to let a woman plead guilty to a drunk-driving charge because her skirt stopped three inches above her knees . 
The woman appeared in court Thursday to enter her plea , but when she started to approach the bench , she was stopped by Judge Hancock . 
He told the woman 's lawyer , Victor Blaine , that the short skirt was inappropriate for a court appearance . 
Although settlement talks had been dropped , attorneys for the two sides apparently began talking again yesterday in an attempt to settle the matter before Thursday , when a judge is expected to rule on Warner 's request for an injunction that would block the two producers from taking over the management of Columbia . 
Wayne Smith , an attorney at Gibson , Dunn & Crutcher in Los Angeles representing Sony , said the Sony executives had n't seen the contract because `` it was n't relevant once Guber and Peters told them Warner would let them terminate it at any time . '' 
Warner described as `` nonsense '' yesterday Sony 's assertions in prior court filings that Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters could in theory run Columbia while still fulfilling their contract to produce movies for Warner . 
DPC , an investor group led by New York-based Crescott Investment Associates , had itself filed a suit in state court in Los Angeles seeking to nullify the agreement . 
Earlier this year , Dataproducts had rejected a $ 15 a share offer from DPC , saying it was n't adequately financed . 
For the third quarter , net rose to $ 242 million , or $ 1.05 a share , from $ 144 million , or 63 cents a share . 
Before the union rejected the company 's offer and the strike was launched with the graveyard shift of Oct. 4 , Boeing had been counting on turning 96 aircraft out the door in the present period . 
That 's the primary reason the company 's share price has held up so well when , in Mr. Smith 's words , `` most companies would have unraveled '' by now . 
Still , Boeing went through its normal verbal gymnastics and played up the downside . 
For instance , he noted that spending on Pentagon programs is shrinking , and Boeing is either the prime contractor or a major supplier on many important military projects , including the B-2 Stealth bomber , the V-22 Osprey tilt-rotor aircraft and the Air Force 's next-generation tactical fighter . 
Moreover , Mr. Shrontz added , production-rate increases that have been implemented on the 737 , 747 , 757 and 767 programs have resulted in `` serious work force skill-dilution problems . '' 
And , of course , there 's the unsteady labor situation . 
Also , a contract with the United Auto Workers at the company 's helicopter plant in Philadelphia expired Oct. 15 . 
The Machinists rejected a proposal featuring a 10 % base wage increase over the life of the three-year contract , plus bonuses of 8 % the first year and 3 % the second . 
The union , though , has called the offer `` insulting . '' 
For the nine months , Boeing 's net increased 36 % to $ 598 million , or $ 2.60 a share , from $ 440 million , or $ 1.92 a share . 
The settlement relates to four contracts negotiated from 1982 to 1985 , prosecutors said . 
A Boeing spokesman responded : `` All along the company has said there was no grounds for criminal prosecution . 
Foothills ' main rival to build a Mackenzie Delta pipeline is likely to be TransCanada PipeLines . 
Like Foothills , TransCanada 's Polar Gas consortium plans to build a pipeline directly south from the Mackenzie River delta in Canada 's western Arctic with an initial capacity to transport 1.2 billion cubic feet of gas daily . 
`` This is virgin territory , unclaimed , and it 's going to be nasty , '' said one observer , who asked not to be named . 
First , the price of natural gas will have to almost double . 
But Foothills said it plans to seek regulatory approval to build an alternative line , the Alaska Natural Gas Transportation System further north toward Alaska . 
It 's also likely that regulators will try to forge some kind of consensus between the would-be pipeline builders before undertaking any hearings into rival projects . 
The decision reflects the Fed 's tougher stance on enforcing the Community Reinvestment Act , a federal law passed in 1977 to help low-income residents obtain loans . 
During the summer , Legal Services Corp. , a Florida legal aid group , filed a petition with the Fed on behalf of residents in four Florida counties . 
First Union , with assets of about $ 32 billion , said it was disappointed by the delay but said it would cooperate with regulatory authorities . 
The company has already missed its initial Oct. 1 target date for completing the merger . 
Florida National , if acquired , would almost double First Union 's banking franchise in Florida to $ 17 billion in assets . 
In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday , First Union shares rose 25 cents to $ 23 . 
Texas Air has run into difficulty reselling about $ 20 million of debt securities because of problems in the junk bond market , the person said . And plans to raise another $ 20 million through changes to an insurance policy have hit a snag , the source said . 
An Eastern spokesman said `` the $ 40 million will have no effect whatsoever on the asset structure of Eastern 's plan . 
However , since Eastern first filed for Chapter 11 protection March 9 , it has consistently promised to pay creditors 100 cents on the dollar . 
Because the carrier is still pledging to do that , some committee members successfully argued that there 's little reason yet to explore a different plan , according to one person familiar with the creditors ' position . 
Earlier this month the accounting firm of Ernst & Young and the securities firm of Goldman , Sachs & Co. , the experts hired by the creditors , contended that Eastern would have difficulty meeting earnings targets the airline was projecting . 
Ernst & Young said Eastern 's plan would miss projections by $ 100 million . 
Yesterday , Joel Zweibel , an attorney for Eastern 's creditors committee , declined to comment on whether the experts had ever been instructed to look at other choices and whether they now were asked not to . 
He said only that the committee has not yet taken any position on Eastern 's reorganization plan and that the two sides were still negotiating . 
Eastern and its creditors agreed in July on a reorganization plan that called for the carrier to sell off $ 1.8 billion in assets and to emerge from Chapter 11 status in late 1989 at two-thirds its former size . 
Eastern eventually decided not to sell off a major chunk , its South American routes , which were valued at $ 400 million . 
The bonds are all rated single-A by Moody 's Investors Service Inc . 
Allianz said it won French government approval to buy as much as one-third of Navigation Mixte , a diversified financial , transport and food holding company . 
Munich-based Allianz 's brief explanatory statement said it is acting to protect its own interests as a shareholder of Navigation Mixte . 
That would be a blow to both Paribas and Navigation Mixte . 
The Allianz statement also reinforced the belief that the takeover battle could be a long one . 
Allianz 's entry reflects the increasing eagerness of West German companies , looking ahead to the reduction in European Community internal barriers in 1992 , to get involved in what until now were considered internal French affairs . 
Dresdner Bank this month moved to acquire Banque Internationale des Placements , a small French merchant bank that Deutsche Bank had looked at and passed over . 
Commerzbank had hoped to buy a stake in Credit Lyonnais , until the Socialists returned to government last year and canceled plans to privatize the large French bank . 
Deutsche Bank has actively sought a French acquisition for at least two years . 
`` We are still looking , '' said a Deutsche Bank spokesman . 
While Allianz officials were n't willing to comment in any detail on their plans , they said Allianz currently holds between 5 % and 10 % of Navigation Mixte , an apparent increase from the 5 % stake that Navigation Mixte officials had earlier announced . 
Allianz also holds a 50 % stake in Navigation Mixte 's insurance subsidiary , one of France 's largest insurance groups , which it bought for about 6.5 billion francs just before Paribas launched its bid . 
Allianz also suggested , without saying so directly , that it regrets that Paribas is n't bidding for all of Navigation Mixte 's shares . 
The problem here , analysts say , is that if Paribas wins its 66.7 % , remaining Navigation Mixte shares will fall in value . 
The Allianz statement led to speculation that Allianz eventually could sell to Paribas . 
That would be bad news for Navigation Mixte 's current management , which was counting on Allianz to help fend off Paribas . 
Allianz did n't say whom , if anyone , it will support . 
Paribas currently intends to offer 1,850 francs a share for Navigation Mixte shares that receive full dividends this year . 
MiniScribe said it expects to begin full volume production of the drives in the U.S. and Singapore in the first quarter next year . 
MiniScribe has been on the rocks since it disclosed early this year that its earnings reports for 1988 were n't accurate . 
The settlement stemmed from a lawsuit the dealers filed in 1982 when the Times began its own competing direct delivery service . 
Home delivery is the fastest growing segment of the Times 's 1.1 million daily circulation . 
Mercury also is shrinking itself , part of its plan to change its emphasis from buying mortgage loans from mortgage brokers to making loans directly . 
Sigmund Levine , Bancroft secretary and treasurer , said the closed-end fund 's directors will consider Mr. Green 's offer in a couple of weeks at a regular meeting . 
The decision in Los Angeles federal court stems from a 1985 Mercury Sable TV ad that Young & Rubicam worked up for Ford Motor Co . 
The ad agency had approached Ms. Midler about appearing , but she declined , citing a longstanding policy of refusing advertising work . 
Peter Laird , a Los Angeles lawyer for Ms. Midler , said , `` We believe that the verdict reaffirms her position and our position that advertisers and advertising agencies can not with impunity imitate the voices of well-known performers . 
The appeals-court decision last year was particularly surprising because the same court had dismissed a similar case in 1970 involving singer Nancy Sinatra and a tire ad -- also a Young & Rubicam product . 
`` One thing that is a little unnerving is that you had three old men on the court of appeals in California coming up with a statement that Nancy Sinatra is not distinctive but that Bette Midler is . 
Nonetheless , Mr. Kurnit said that the latest decisions are having a chilling effect . 
James River , a maker of pulp , paper and plastic products , already has interests in tissue businesses in France , Spain , Italy and Turkey . 
Vitro said the definitive agreements require that Anchor obtain a waiver from its bank lenders of existing covenant defaults under its bank facilities . 
But others reject the view , and forecast the dollar will continue to hold its current tight trading pattern . 
In late New York trading yesterday , the dollar was quoted at 1.8340 marks , up from 1.8300 marks late Friday , and at 141.90 yen , up from 141.65 yen late Friday . 
The dollar began yesterday on a firm note in Tokyo , closing higher in late trade . 
On the Commodity Exchange in New York , gold for current delivery settled at $ 377.80 an ounce , down 70 cents . 
Soviet police clashed with demonstrators in Moscow following a candlelight vigil around the KGB 's Lubyanka headquarters in memory of those persecuted under Stalin . More than 1,000 Muscovites attended the service . 
U.S. and Soviet negotiators opened talks in New York aimed at resolving differences in proposals to reduce chemical-weapons arsenals . 
Secretary of State Baker expressed concern that Nicaraguan President Ortega may attempt to use alleged attacks by the U.S.backed Contra rebels as an excuse to scuttle elections scheduled for February . 
The USS Lexington returned to dock in Pensacola , Fla. , following an accident Sunday in which the pilot of a training jet crashed into the ship , killing five sailors . 
Four people torched three U.S. flags on the central steps of the U.S. Capitol in a bid to test a new federal law protecting the American flag from desecration . 
Authorities in Algeria said the toll from two earthquakes Sunday had reached at least 30 dead and about 250 injured . 
Britain 's Thatcher summoned senior advisers for strategy talks as opinion polls showed the prime minister 's popularity had hit a record low following the resignation last Thursday of Chancellor of the Exchequer Lawson . 
The troubled West German computer company said , in a statement to its employees , that the number of persons working in product development will be reduced world-wide to 2,440 from 2,888 by the end of 1990 . 
The number of workers in production sectors will be cut by 488 , to 5,200 by September . 
The company also cited some success in damping cost increases and said it wants to return to profitability in 1990 . 
The tender offer , which surprised analysts because it appeared to be unsolicited , could spark a period of industry consolidation . 
Two more securities firms bowed to the outcry over program trading . 
A big pension-insurance case will be reviewed by the Supreme Court . 
Drug companies lost a major liability case . 
Revco received a $ 925 million takeover offer from Texas financier Robert Bass and Acadia Partners . 
Rockefeller Group agreed to sell a 51 % interest to Mitsubishi Estate , a major Japanese developer and property owner , for $ 846 million . 
Continental Air replaced its top executive for the sixth time in as many years . 
The plan calls for Cray Research holders to receive one share in the new company for every two shares held . 
Chairman Carl L. Bixby said the decline occurred although revenue rose 30 % to more than $ 8.3 million from $ 6.4 million a year earlier . 
Mr. Bixby said that early signs point to improved earnings and revenue in the first quarter of fiscal 1990 . 
Priam had a loss of $ 25.4 million for the fiscal year ended July 7 , compared with year-earlier profit of $ 543,000 , or two cents a share . 
In exchange offers that expired Friday , holders of each $ 1,000 of notes will receive $ 250 face amount of Series A 7.5 % senior secured convertible notes due Jan. 15 , 1995 , and 200 common shares . 
Japan 's biggest computer maker last week undercut seven competitors to win a contract to design a mapping system for the city of Hiroshima 's waterworks . 
The bid created such a furor that Fujitsu said it is now offering to withdraw from the project . 
`` We desperately wanted the contract because we want experience in the field , '' the Fujitsu spokeswoman said . 
`` We expect a big market in the future , so in the long term it will be profitable . 
Hiroshima 's waterworks bureau said the municipal government had budgeted about 11 million yen -LRB- $ 77,500 -RRB- for the project . 
`` I was flabbergasted , '' Tatsuhara Yamane , head of the bureau , was quoted by Kyodo news service as saying . 
Indeed , Fujitsu officials admitted they may have been a little overzealous . 
The Fujitsu spokeswoman said headquarter officials did n't approve the bid in advance and will take measures so this kind of thing does n't happen in the future . 
Specifically , Fujitsu won the right to design the specifications for a computerized system that will show water lines throughout the city . 
Fujitsu said it hopes the Hiroshima contract will help it secure pacts with other municipalities . 
Japanese local governments are expected to invest heavily in computer systems over the next few years , and many companies expect that field to provide substantial revenue . 
`` In the near future , it will be a big market , not just for waterworks , but for all mapping systems , '' the Fujitsu spokeswoman said . 
But the Japanese practice of deep discounting often is cited by Americans as a classic barrier to entry in Japan 's market . 
Fujitsu was n't the only company willing to sacrifice profit on the project . 
Three competitors bid between 300,000 yen and 500,000 yen , according to the Hiroshima government office . 
With the new service , American will fly 161 flights a week to 17 European cities . 
The West German retailing group also said that the results of the first three quarters suggest it will meet its profit goal for the year . 
Analysts , however , were surprised because the tender offer appeared unsolicited . 
The two companies would appear to be a logical fit because of their complementary lines , and analysts described the offer , representing a 36 % premium over Nekoosa 's market price , as fair . 
But industry observers still questioned whether Georgia Pacific will ultimately prevail . 
`` You have to watch out for counterbids , '' said one analyst . `` 
According to the Value Line Investment Survey , demand for Nekoosa 's commodity paper has weakened , prompting earnings to decline by 6.6 % in the third quarter ended Sept. 30 . 
Ratners and Weisfield 's said they reached an agreement in principle for the acquisition of Weisfield 's by Sterling Inc . 
The companies said the acquisition is subject to a definitive agreement . 
Ratners , which controls 25 % of the British jewelry market , would increase the number of its U.S. stores to about 450 stores from 360 . 
It has said it hopes to control 5 % of jewelry business in the U.S. by 1992 
Analog also said that a one million share buy-back program announced in March is substantially complete . 
The media 's treatment of the Defense Department during the Vietnam War , the Carter administration 's denigration of the military , and the public scapegoating of Lt. Col. Oliver North have all served to emasculate the poor souls who live there . 
Where does Mr. Lehman get off castigating Gen. George Marshall for muscling in on naval prerogatives ? 
Ever since the days of Alfred Thayer Mahan -LRB- U.S. naval officer and naval historian -RRB- and Teddy Roosevelt the Navy has been the service most favored by Washington officialdom . 
But Mr. Corr 's tenure was shorter than most . 
The 48-year-old Mr. Corr was hired largely because he was credited with returning Trans World Airlines Inc. to profitability while he was its president from 1986 to 1988 . 
Companies listed below reported quarterly profit substantially different from the average of analysts ' estimates . 
The companies are followed by at least three analysts , and had a minimum five-cent change in actual earnings per share . 
He succeeds Alvin A. McCall in the position . 
Charles A. Pearce , 66 years old , will retire from his post as chief executive officer of this bank holding company effective Dec. 31 . 
He will remain chairman . 
It is a peaceful time in this part of western India . 
The summer crop is harvested , winter sowing has yet to begin . 
For just as the Arabs were in the 1960s , the farmers of Sidhpur are on the brink of global power and fame . 
The Arabs had merely oil . 
Ever since the link to cholesterol was disclosed , Americans have begun scarfing up psyllium in their breakfast cereals . 
`` This seed 's not grown anywhere else in India , or anywhere else in the world , '' says T.V. Krishnamurthy , a vice president of Procter & Gamble India Ltd. , a major psyllium buyer and promoter . 
Only one thing is certain here : Pysllium is likely to remain solely an export item from Sidhpur for a long time . 
As such , the soluble fiber has an almost fanatic following in northern India . 
`` I can assure you , '' attests a 25-year-old lawyer in New Delhi , with a meaningfully raised eyebrow , `` from personal experience , it works . '' 
'' Folk doctors also prescribe it for kidney , bladder and urethra problems , duodenal ulcers and hemorrhoids . 
The transluscent husk of the seed is removed , sifted and crushed 
But some time ago , researchers discovered that soluble fibers also lower cholesterol levels in the blood . 
Cincinnati-based P&G took an interest 
One of the studies , done at the University of Minnesota , tested 75 people with raised cholesterol levels . 
After 16 weeks , the group that took three daily teaspoons of Metamucil saw a significant dip in their general cholesterol levels , and an even larger reduction in levels of low-density lipoproteins , the so-called bad cholesterol . 
In April , the psyllium bandwagon got more crowded . 
General Mills Inc. , the food giant , launched a breakfast cereal called Benefit , containing psyllium , oat , wheat and beet bran 
Suddenly , on television , in advertisements and on their cereal boxes , Americans were inundated with news about the obscure seed . 
The flood of claims and counter-claims worried consumers and actually hurt sales of the new cereals . 
Currently , there is a lull in the psyllium war . 
But the agency has n't yanked psyllium off store shelves . 
`` It 's going to be a sensational thing , '' says Mr. Krishnamurthy of P&G in Bombay . 
But the news of the boom has yet to trickle down to the farmers . 
`` Psyllium 's not a good crop , '' complains Sooraji Jath , a 26-year-old farmer from the village of Lakshmipura . `` 
Even at the Basic Chemicals , Pharmaceuticals and Cosmetics Export Promotion Council , the government agency that promotes the seed , the psyllium boom is distant thunder . 
The staff brags about psyllium 's hefty contribution to American regularity , without quite grasping the implications of the research on cholesterol . 
In one way , the psyllium middlemen -- the buyers and exporters -- are glad to keep news of the boom to themselves . 
But there 's a catch . 
Sidhpur and adjacent districts are the only places in the world where psyllium is grown in large quantities . 
This is partly due to the particular demands of the crop . 
Psyllium needs sandy soil , dew during the first few weeks , and then total dryness when its seeds are maturing . 
Big buyers like Procter & Gamble say there are other spots on the globe , and in India , where the seed could be grown . 
In Sidhpur , it is almost time to sow this year 's crop . 
Mr. Jath is thinking of passing up psyllium altogether this year in favor of a crop with a future such as cumin or fennel . 
`` Maybe I 'll plant castor-oil seeds . '' 
The reasonable first-year rates can be followed by increases of 60 % or more if a covered employee files a major claim , they complain . 
`` There 's a distinct possibility that I may lose my job over this , '' the employee , Karen Allen , of Floor Covering Resources , Kensington , Md. , recently told a congressional hearing . 
For employee and employer alike , the worry is widespread . 
`` I have an old-fashioned name for people in that position : sick people who need health insurance , '' Rep. Waxman says . `` 
What we 're seeing now makes a mockery of the idea of insurance : collect premiums from the healthy , dump the sick and let them pay their own bills . '' 
The concern grows out of increased efforts by the insurers to woo the small-business market . 
`` Insurance companies will offer a good rate if no one is sick , but it 's a roll of the dice , '' says Rosemary Heinhold of the Small Business Service Bureau , a group representing 35,000 small businesses nationwide . 
`` One case of cancer or a high-risk pregnancy with a sick infant , and rates go up 40 % to 60 % . 
Some business analysts blame the problem on tough competition in the insurance market . 
`` I 'm not accusing insurers of dereliction of duty , '' Robert Patricelli of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce told Mr. Waxman 's panel . 
But first on the list of priorities , says the National Federation of Independent Business , is to prohibit state laws requiring the inclusion of specialty items , such as psychiatric care , in basic health plans . 
`` Before the state of Wisconsin mandated that mental-health care be covered , there were only 70 mental-health clinics in the state 
`` Before the state of Wisconsin mandated that mental-health care be covered , there were only 70 mental-health clinics in the state ; now there are 400 , '' says Carolyn Miller , an NFIB lobbyist . 
The insurance-industry association also strongly disagrees with the proposed community rating , which `` does n't save one dollar , '' argues James Dorsch , HIAA 's Washington counsel . 
`` It just makes healthy businesses subsidize unhealthy ones and gives each employer less incentive to keep his workers healthy . '' 
But to Ms. Allen , the employee whose back problem triggered a huge insurance-rate increase , the issue was simple . 
Its stock has slumped recently , closing unchanged Friday at $ 29 a share in composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange 
Mr. Junius said Nashua 's `` intention is to remain an independent public company . '' 
Alex Henderson , an analyst at Prudential-Bache Securities , said that while Nashua 's performance this year has been `` atrocious , '' the company nonetheless is attractive as a `` classic breakup candidate because there 's no similarity between its -LCB- four -RCB- businesses . '' 
In over-the-counter trading Friday , Weisfield 's gained $ 9.50 to $ 39 . 
In over-the-counter trading Friday , Weisfield 's gained $ 9.50 to $ 39 . At that price , the company has an indicated value of $ 42.9 million . 
Among the most upbeat was BT Brokerage -LRB- Asia -RRB- Ltd . 
Others were more cautious . 
Manufacturers have survived the turmoil in China largely unscathed . 
But in the stock and real-estate markets , activity remains spotty even though prices have regained much of their lost ground . 
As many economists and businessmen see it , those incongruities underscore a paradox that seems likely to bedevil the economy throughout the 1990s . 
As a model of capitalist efficiency on southern China 's doorstep , Hong Kong 's prospects look good . 
China 's land and labor offer inexpensive alternatives to local industry . 
China 's land and labor offer inexpensive alternatives to local industry . China-bound freight streams through the territory 's port . 
China 's land and labor offer inexpensive alternatives to local industry . China-bound freight streams through the territory 's port . In the decade since the communist nation emerged from isolation , its burgeoning trade with the West has lifted Hong Kong 's status as a regional business center . 
It is also the sovereign power that , come 1997 , will take over this British colony . 
China 's leaders have promised generous liberties for post-1997 Hong Kong . 
Outflows of people and capital from Hong Kong have been growing since the sovereignty issue first arose in the early 1980s . 
A widely held assumption all along has been that , given its robust economy , Hong Kong will be able to attract sufficient foreign money and talent to comfortably offset the outflows . 
Investment and emigration plans take time to come to fruition . 
Only four months have passed since the Beijing massacre , and few are prepared to predict its ultimate impact . 
The only consensus is that more money and people may leave Hong Kong than had been thought likely . 
Maureen Fraser , an economist with W.I. Carr , a subsidiary of France 's Banque Indosuez , believes that the territory may not be able to regain its momentum until some time after 1997 . 
`` Investors have to accept the possibility of a significant slowdown in economic activity in the runup to 1997 , '' she says . 
Nearly half of them argue that Hong Kong 's uneasy relationship with China will constrain -- though not inhibit -- long-term economic growth . 
Since the China crisis erupted , Mr. Mushkat says , the scenario as depicted by the middle-of-the-road group bears a remarkable resemblance to the difficulties Hong Kong currently faces . 
Such a pace of growth , though respectable for mature industrialized economies , would be unusually slow for Hong Kong . 
Only twice since the 1960s has annual gross domestic product growth here fallen below 5 % for two or more consecutive years . 
The first instance occurred in 1967-68 , when China 's Cultural Revolution triggered bloody street rioting in the colony . 
The other came in 1974-75 from the combined shock of world recession and a severe local stock market crash . 
During the past 10 years , Hong Kong 's economic growth has averaged 8.3 % annually . 
Given Hong Kong 's record , Mr. Mushkat 's `` realists '' might have sounded unduly conservative when the interviews took place two years ago . 
`` The city could lose some of its entrepreneurial flavor . 
It could lose some of its dynamism , '' says Mr. Mushkat , a director of Baring Securities -LRB- Hong Kong -RRB- Ltd. , a unit of Britain 's Barings PLC . `` 
It does n't have to be a disaster . 
Going by official forecasts of GDP , which measures the colony 's output of goods and services , minus foreign income , Mr. Mushkat 's `` realists '' seem relatively close to the mark . 
After taking into account the fallout from the China crisis , the government has projected 1989 GDP growth of 5 % . 
Sir Piers Jacobs , Hong Kong 's financial secretary , says a further downward revision may be justified unless the economy stages a more convincing rally . 
Many factors besides a dread of 1997 will have a bearing on Hong Kong 's economy . 
One concerns Japanese investors . 
Barely visible on Hong Kong 's property scene in 1985 , by last year Japan had become the top foreign investor , spending $ 602 million . 
Another -- and critical -- factor is the U.S. , Hong Kong 's biggest export market . 
Indeed , a few economists maintain that global forces will continue to govern Hong Kong 's economic rhythm . 
But economic arguments , however solid , wo n't necessarily impress Hong Kong 's 5.7 million people . 
Emigration applications soared in 1985 , when Britain and China ratified their accord on Hong Kong 's future . 
In 1987 , Hong Kong 's most prosperous year for a decade , 30,000 left , up 58 % from the previous year . 
Last year , 45,000 went . 
The government predicts that annual outflows will level off over the next few years at as much as 60,000 -- a projection that is widely regarded as unrealistically low . 
A large number of those leaving are managers and professionals . 
Though the trading halts are offered as a sign of concern about recent stock market volatility , most Wall Street firms remain open to handle program trading for customers . 
These huge stock-index funds build portfolios that match the S&P 500 stock index or other stock indexes , and frequently swap between stocks and futures to capture profits . 
In fact , without Wall Street firms trading for their own accounts , the stock-index arbitrage trading opportunities for the big funds may be all the more abundant . 
Executives who manage these funds see the current debate over program trading as a repeat of the concern expressed after the 1987 crash . 
They noted that studies completed after the 1987 crash exonerated program trading as a source of volatility . 
Stock-index funds have grown in popularity over the past decade as pension funds and other institutional investors have sought a low-cost way to match the performance of the stock market as a whole . 
The Wall Street firms ' pullback followed their recent blacklisting by several institutional investors . 
Though it is still doing stock-index arbitrage trades for customers , Morgan Stanley 's trading halt for its own account is likely to shake up firms such as Kidder , Peabody & Co. that still do such trades for their own account . 
`` We have to clear up these issues and find out what is present that is creating artificial volatility , '' Mr. Fisher said . 
Margin rules determine the minimum amount of cash an investor must put up when buying a security . 
Some observers say that different rules governing stock and futures markets are partly responsible for volatility . 
`` There has to be better coordination on a regulatory basis , '' said Christopher Pedersen , director of trading at Twenty-First Securities Corp . 
The former comes from the latest wave of political activism in Hollywood , especially around feminist issues such as abortion . 
The former comes from the latest wave of political activism in Hollywood , especially around feminist issues such as abortion . The latter comes from the perception , on the part of many people in network TV , that their only hope of keeping viewers from defecting to cable is to fill the airwaves with an increasingly raw sensationalism . 
But tonight 's offering , `` Settle the Score '' -LRB- 9-11 p.m. EST , on NBC -RRB- , does n't even try . 
At one point in the documentary , Mr. Sohmer , who is Jewish , says he felt rejected by many of the Protestants and Southerners he met at Yale . 
He quotes one student saying , `` You 're just the kind of Jewboy we Southerners ca n't stand . 
Not to judge by `` Settle the Score , '' in which Mr. Sohmer seems to be settling a score of his own . 
Of all the unflattering portraits of small-town America I 've seen on TV , this film is the most gratuitously nasty . 
I mean , these folks are so uptight that they blame pretty Kate for the fact that when she was a teen-ager , someone tied her hands behind her back , thrust her head into a gunny sack , brutally raped and beat her , and then left her to die in a cold-storage room . 
But in Mr. Sohmer 's Ozarks , he is but the tip of the patriarchal iceberg . 
Every man Kate encounters is either sniggeringly puritanical , viciously patronizing , revoltingly lecherous , or all three . 
Josh makes clumsy passes at Kate when she 's seething with anger and fear , but we know from the outset that he 's not a member of the evil patriarchy . 
How could he be ? 
Josh makes clumsy passes at Kate when she 's seething with anger and fear , but we know from the outset that he 's not a member of the evil patriarchy . How could he be ? He 's the director of the local Planned Parenthood chapter . 
As for the women , they 're pathetic . 
Kate 's Ma -LRB- Louise Latham -RRB- is a moral coward . 
Her sister-in-law -LRB- Amy Wright -RRB- is a sniveling prude afraid that Kate will seduce all the married men in town , including a particularly loathsome fellow named Tucker , whose idea of fun is to leave his wife at home tending to her bruises and cigarette burns , while he bullies Kate into a dance that consists of drooling on her while trying to break her ribs . 
At this point , the truce between feminism and sensationalism gets mighty uneasy . 
Surely the question is obvious . 
A spokesman said the savings bank may not qualify for the capital requirements because , under the proposed guidelines , its $ 380 million of preferred stock does n't meet the `` core capital '' criteria outlined under the new Financial Institutions Reform , Recovery and Enforcement Act of 1989 . 
Crossland said it retained three investment bankers to assist it in developing and implementing a financial restructuring plan . 
Additionally , Crossland reported a third-quarter loss of $ 175.5 million , or $ 13.44 a share , compared with net income of $ 27.1 million , or $ 1.16 a share , a year ago . 
The spokesman said that the proposed guidelines caused Crossland to revise its business objectives and , consequently , to write down the asset value of some previous acquisitions . 
Net interest income for the third quarter declined to $ 35.6 million from $ 70.1 million a year ago . However , non-interest income rose to $ 23.5 million from $ 22 million . 
It also placed on CreditWatch for possible downgrade other securities , including the double-B-minus\/B rating of Crossland 's certificates of deposit and the single-B rating of its senior subordinated capital notes . 
Does the tyke have a good mind about to be wasted ? 
ABC has n't had much luck with shows featuring blacks in recent years , and the producers of one new arrival are a bit desperate . 
So producers Alyce and Topper Carew spun their Rolodexes and gathered names of black opinion makers to mount a direct-mail campaign . 
Using direct mail for a TV show is like fishing for whale with a breaded hook . 
`` This is a very personal , ethnic style , '' Mr. Carew says . `` 
I want people in the barber shops and the beauty shops and standing in line at the rib joints to be talking about the show . 
`` Since deregulation of the market in 1985 , producers have become much more intensely involved in both transportation and marketing , '' Mr. Maier said . `` 
It 's a matter of being close to those suppliers 
TransCanada transports all gas that moves eastward from Alberta . 
`` Having more than a token presence here should enhance communications and business relationships , '' Mr. Litvinchuk said . `` 
The move , which could cost TransCanada as much as 50 million Canadian dollars -LRB- US$ 42.5 million -RRB- in relocation and severance payments , should be complete by next summer , Mr. Maier said . 
So two weeks ago , thousands of Brooks Brothers charge customers -- customers conditioned to wait for twice-yearly clearance sales -- got a surprise : an invitation to come in and buy any one item for 25 % off . 
That 's not all . 
Departing from its newspaper ads featuring prim sketches of a suit or a coat , Brooks Brothers is marketing an updated image in a new campaign that carries the slogan , `` The Surprise of Brooks Brothers . '' 
One color photo displays a rainbow of dress shirts tied in a knot ; another picture shows neckties with bold designs . 
As part of its national ad pitch , Brooks Brothers will show less preppy women 's clothes , moving away from its floppy-tie business stereotype . 
Brooks Brothers hopes that shaking its time-honored traditions will attract more young men and more women and change consumer perceptions about its range of merchandise . 
`` We have men who only buy their shirts and underwear here or younger customers who only buy their -LCB- job -RCB- interview suit here , '' says William Roberti , chairman and chief executive officer of Brooks Brothers . `` 
When acquired in May 1988 by British retailer Marks & Spencer PLC , Brooks Brothers ' annual operating profit was about $ 41.8 million on sales of $ 290.1 million . 
Mr. Roberti concedes that since the $ 750 million takeover , `` sales growth has n't been dramatic . '' 
As Brooks Brothers jumps into the fashion fray , it will be playing catch up . 
Many clothiers , especially Ralph Lauren , have cashed in on the recent popularity of updated Ivy League and English styles . 
By making a break from tradition , Brooks Brothers is seeking a delicate balance . 
If it promotes fashion too much , the shop risks alienating its old-line customers 
Fashion industry consultants also question whether the company can make significant strides in its women 's business , given that its customer base is less established and that conservative business dress for women is on the decline . 
`` Everybody forgets that there are fashion cycles in classic merchandise , '' observes Carol Farmer , a retail consultant . 
Despite these challenges , Marks & Spencer sees big potential in Brooks Brothers , noting the widely recognized name and global presence . 
Marks & Spencer plans to open roughly 18 more U.S. stores in the next five years . 
Brooks Brothers is also remodeling its stores . 
Wednesday , it will unveil a $ 7 million refurbishing at its flagship store on Madison Avenue . 
With newly installed escalators , the store retains its signature wood-and-brass look but is less intimidating . 
Because the biggest growth in menswear is in casual sportswear , Brooks Brothers is chasing more of that business . 
The centerpiece of the overhaul , according to Mr. Roberti , is the men 's tailored clothing department , where Brooks Brothers has added new suit styles and fabrics . 
It also plans to add suits cut for athletic men with broader upper bodies . 
Ferro Corp. said it will buy back as many as one million common shares . 
Mr. Gatward declined to comment , and Mr. Price could n't be reached on Friday . 
The $ 320 million purchase of MTM represented an audacious international move for TVS , which then was about half the U.S. concern 's size . 
Mr. Gatward has spent a lot of time since late September at MTM 's headquarters 
Mr. Gatward has spent a lot of time since late September at MTM 's headquarters ; he eliminated three departments and fired six executives , according to the TVS spokesman . 
Further staff cuts are likely , the spokesman indicated . 
TVS blames difficulties in peddling reruns of MTM shows to U.S. broadcasters for the problems at MTM . 
Institut Merieux , which already holds a 12.5 % stake in Connaught , said that at the close of business Thursday , 5,745,188 shares of Connaught and C$ 44.3 million face amount of debentures , convertible into 1,826,596 common shares , had been tendered to its offer . 
At the close of business Thursday , Ciba-Geigy and Chiron said 11,580 common shares had been tendered to their offer . 
The insurance concern said all conversion rights on the stock will terminate on Nov. 30 . 
If the case is converted to Chapter 7 , what remains of the oil tycoon 's once-vast estate -- now believed to have a value of less than $ 125 million -- would be sold off quickly with most of the proceeds going to the Internal Revenue Service , whose claim for $ 300 million in back taxes has priority in the case . 
`` It would be a shame to have a Chapter 7 after all the progress in this case , '' said Judge Abramson . 
Under Chapter 11 of the Federal Bankruptcy Code , a company continues to operate under protection from creditors ' lawsuits while it works out a plan to pay its debts . 
Under prodding from Judge Abramson , a Minpeco executive flew in from Peru last week to talk directly with executives from Manufacturers Hanover on a settlement . 
All three major creditors -- the IRS , Minpeco and Manufacturers Hanover -- voted against and effectively doomed a reorganization plan proposed by Mr. Hunt . 
A reorganization plan proposed jointly by the IRS and Manufacturers Hanover was stalled by a negative vote from Minpeco . 
Meanwhile , settlement negotiations continue between Mr. Hunt and the IRS , which has already reached a tentative agreement with Nelson Bunker Hunt . 
Old Stone 's construction lending portfolio includes about $ 250 million in real-estate loans outstanding . 
Leucadia , New York , estimated it had a pre-tax gain on the transaction of $ 57 million , including its part of Brae 's gain . 
If all the debt is converted to common , Automatic Data will issue about 3.6 million shares 
The offer , which Telerate 's two independent directors have rejected as inadequate , previously had been scheduled to expire at midnight Friday . 
In Delaware Chancery Court litigation , Telerate has criticized Dow Jones for not disclosing that Telerate 's management expects the company 's revenue to increase by 20 % annually , while Dow Jones based its projections of Telerate 's performance on a 12 % revenue growth forecast . 
Telerate shares fell 50 cents on Friday to close at $ 20 each in New York Stock Exchange composite trading . 
Telerate provides information about financial markets through an electronic network . 
Norman J. Harrison , chairman , will succeed him as chief executive . 
Roger L. Sutton , executive vice president , was appointed as the new president and chief operating officer . 
Upset over the use of what it says are its exclusive trademarks , Hells Angels Motorcycle Corp. is fighting back -- in court . 
`` There is absolutely no way our board or membership would have approved the portrayal of the Hells Angels in this movie , '' said George Christie , president of the club 's Ventura chapter . 
Nam Angels shows Angels fighting with each other and also depicts them as showing no remorse when a member is killed . 
The world had a big yuk recently when the Soviets reported a rash of UFO landings , one of them bringing tall aliens who glowed in the dark to Voronezh . 
Here is a bible for UFO watchers , complete with pictures of people who say they 've had personal relationships with aliens . 
So far anyway , our alien visitors seem more intent on brightening our skies than pulverizing us . 
Mr. Good devotes much serious space to the events of Feb. 25 , 1942 , when American gunners spotted strange lights in the sky above Los Angeles . 
Air-raid sirens sounded the alarm at 2:25 a.m. , summoning 12,000 air wardens to duty . 
Ground batteries , targeting an odd assortment of aircraft traveling at highly unusual speeds , opened up a furious fusillade . 
The sky filled with 12.8-pound shells , several of which fell back to Earth , destroying homes and buildings . 
Well , thousands of Californians on the scene insisted the ammo had been uselessly aimed at a large , hardy UFO , but you will just have to make your own decision about such sightings . 
One thing 's for sure : There have been a ton of them , and greater beings than the editors of the National Enquirer have shown interest . 
Gerald Ford , a fairly down-to-earth fellow , once sent a letter to the chairman of the Armed Services Committee recommending that `` there be a committee investigation of the UFO phenomenon . 
Jimmy Carter went further in a 1976 campaign promise : `` If I become president , I 'll make every piece of information this country has about UFO sightings available to the public , and the scientists . 
But you know about campaign promises . 
For instance , witnesses in Voronezh say the pinheaded behemoths and their robot friend , after strolling around the city park , left behind some rocks . 
Or land in Russia so often . 
In a 1961 incident , a Soviet mail plane disappeared off the radar screen just after radioing its position to ground control in Sverdlovsk . 
A search party soon found the unscathed aircraft in a forest clearing much too small to have allowed a conventional landing . 
Speculation as to the nature of aliens will no doubt continue until we wake up one morning to find they 've taken over `` The Today Show , '' the way they overwhelm an entire town in Jack Finney 's `` Invasion of the Body Snatchers '' -LRB- Fireside\/Simon & Schuster , 216 pages , $ 8.95 -RRB- . 
Maybe some of our talk-show hosts and anchors have already been taken over ? 
Another guy who thinks they 're out there and closing fast is Whitley Strieber , whose new novel , `` Majestic '' -LRB- Putnam , 317 pages , $ 18.95 -RRB- , takes a look at a reported 1947 UFO crash near the Roswell Army Air Field in a New Mexico desert . 
Mr. Strieber knows a lot about aliens . 
The way Mr. Strieber tells it in his earnest prose , the intelligence officer who found the craft 's strange debris was forced by the government to call the flower-inscribed scraps parts of a weather balloon . 
The apparent crash became top secret , and the alien creatures went away upset with the rude ways of human beings . 
Now , as a new downturn in the chemical industry looms , Akzo says it is in far better shape to cope . 
Aside from slashing costs and investing heavily in its plants , Akzo has spent 3.9 billion guilders -LRB- $ 1.88 billion -RRB- on acquisitions since 1983 to give it better balance . 
The fibers business , whose products go into textiles , carpeting and myriad industrial uses , now accounts for only 20 % of Akzo 's sales . 
Still , Akzo has n't yet found a way to achieve another goal : a large presence in the U.S. market for prescription drugs . 
`` Maybe Akzo can surprise the investment world a bit , '' said Jaap Visker , an analyst at Amsterdam-Rotterdam Bank NV . 
He figures Akzo is likely to be one of the few major chemical companies to show profit growth next year . 
The company is exposed to bulk chemicals , however . 
Although bulk-chemical prices have begun falling in the U.S. , they are generally stable in Europe , Mr. Bergsma said . 
To reduce the danger of such pricing cycles , Akzo has invested heavily in specialty chemicals , which have highly specific industrial uses and tend to produce much higher profit margins than do bulk chemicals . 
Mr. Bergsma said world-wide industry sales of aramid fibers are expected to total about $ 500 million this year . 
In August , for example , it completed the $ 110 million acquisition of Reliance Universal Inc. , a U.S. maker of industrial coatings for wood , metals and plastics , from Tyler Corp . 
Akzo is the leading seller of birth-control pills in Europe but is still seeking regulatory approvals to enter that market in the U.S. and Japan . 
We 're sorry to see Nigel Lawson 's departure from the British government . 
The early omens , we admit , scarcely suggest so wholesome an outcome . 
British politicians divide into two groups of chickens , those with their necks cut and those screaming the sky is falling . 
The problem is that on the vital issue of monetary policy and exchange rates , conservative , free-market economists divide into at least three incompatible camps . 
There are the strict monetarists , who believe that floating exchange rates free an economy to stabilize its price level by stabilizing the monetary aggregates . 
In the British case , Mr. Lawson is the closest thing in London to a supply-side globalist . 
He not only slashed marginal tax rates , initially sparking fresh growth in Britain , but he wanted to regulate monetary policy by targeting exchange rates , indeed joining the European Monetary System . 
To make matters even more confusing , the earlier U.S. experience made clear that Mr. Lawson 's tax cuts would have profound effects on Britain 's international accounts and the value of sterling . 
They increased the after-tax rate of return and made Britain a far more attractive place to invest , producing sudden capital inflows . 
At this point , the options were : Crunch money to stop the boost in the aggregates , as Sir Alan surely advised , and forget the soaring pound . 
But this devastated the U.S. manufacturing sector , laying the seeds of protectionism . 
Mr. Lawson , though not allowed to join the EMS , chose to `` shadow '' the deutsche mark . 
So the British experience presents a genuine puzzle that reaches far beyond the shores of Albion . 
We had been soliciting opinions on it long before Mr. Lawson 's resignation , and offer some of the collection for the benefit of his successor and one-time deputy , John Major . 
We should also add Mr. Lawson 's own explanation , as we understand it . 
Unlike the U.S. , Britain never achieved even a momentary reduction in real wages . 
Unlike the U.S. , Britain never achieved even a momentary reduction in real wages . The wage stickiness , which OECD studies confirm is particularly high in Britain , gives its economy a structural bias toward inflation . 
Perhaps the fiscal shock of tax cuts is after all best absorbed by floating rates , though of course in the event Mr. Lawson resigned over whether to support a weak pound , not restrain a strong one . 
We recall that Mr. Roberts not only chides the Chancellor for being too easy because of a desire to constrain sterling , but also led the chorus saying that Mr. Volcker was too tight when he let the dollar rise . 
In fixing rates the choice of initial parities is crucial , for example , and perhaps he picked the wrong pound-DM rate . 
For that matter , perhaps he fixed to the wrong currency . 
We sympathize with Mrs. Thatcher 's reluctance to tie her currency to one governed by the domestic political imperatives of West Germany . 
Alan Reynolds of Polyconomics adds his suspicion that the unrecognized inflationary culprit is the budget surplus . 
In particular , `` shadowing '' a currency is anything but fixing 
In particular , `` shadowing '' a currency is anything but fixing ; it is an open announcement that the exchange rate target has no credibility . 
All the more so when strong voices are heard opposing the policy . 
What Mr. Major and Mrs. Thatcher will do now remains to be seen . 
They confront stubborn inflation and a sagging economy , that is to say , stagflation . 
This can not be solved by provoking a further downturn 
This can not be solved by provoking a further downturn ; reducing the supply of goods does not solve inflation . 
Our advice is this : Immediately return the government surpluses to the economy through incentive-maximizing tax cuts , and find some monetary policy target that balances both supply and demand for money -LRB- which neither aggregates nor interest rates can do -RRB- . 
First and foremost , Mr. Phillips said he hopes to improve client service . 
He also plans to get to know clients that Mr. Roman was closer to , such as Lever Brothers , American Express and Seagram . 
The two men are planning joint visits to a number of clients to attempt to smoothly hand over the reins . 
Under the reorganization , Ogilvy plans to name one executive on each account as a `` client service director '' to work as the client 's single contact for all those services . 
Industry executives and analysts are divided on whether Mr. Phillips is up to the task . 
He is n't as well-known to clients as is Mr. Roman . 
The one thing Mr. Phillips clearly does have going for him is continuity , although it is n't certain if that will be enough . 
Mr. Phillips said the company 's expected margin improvement will be all but inevitable , given that the company 's profitability was dragged down this year by an expensive move to luxurious , oversized new New York headquarters . 
But margins will be helped , too , by some other cost-saving steps . 
Ogilvy eliminated the mail room staff , closed the executive dining room and , after the takeover , let go half a dozen financial executives . 
In an internal memo , Alex Kroll , the agency 's chairman , said Mr. Klein decided to remove himself to minimize `` negative reaction '' from prospective clients and others and to prepare for his defense . 
`` The fact that he is in the process of defending himself against the present charges could conceivably have an adverse impact on Y&R , '' Mr. Kroll wrote . 
The agency , with about $ 35 million in billings , will be dissolved , with some of its staffers absorbed by WCRS 's Della Femina McNamee unit in Boston , Ms. Heller said . 
At Wells Rich , Ms. Heller will concentrate on accounts that include Philip Morris 's Benson & Hedges cigarette brand , which relies on print ads , Ms. Heller 's specialty . 
The net loss for the quarter was $ 43.1 million against a year-earlier loss of $ 106 million . 
For the year , sales were up 5.6 % to $ 6.97 billion compared with $ 6.61 billion in fiscal 1988 . 
The $ 833.6 million figures includes the new acquisitions . 
The company estimates its total debt at about $ 5.2 billion . 
In a letter to investors , Chairman Edward S. Finkelstein wrote that he expects the company to `` benefit from some of the disruption faced by our competitors . 
Those chains include Bloomingdale 's , which Campeau recently said it will sell . 
The sale , which had been expected , is part of KKR 's program to pay down $ 5 billion of a $ 6 billion bridge loan by February . 
Louis Gerstner Jr. , chairman and chief executive officer of New York-based RJR , called the sale a `` significant step '' in the company 's divestiture program , as well as a `` a strategic divestiture . '' 
RJR 's executives have said they will dispense with certain brands , in particular , that are n't leaders in their markets . 
Baby Ruth and Butterfinger are both among the top-selling 15 chocolate bars in the U.S. , but RJR 's overall share of the roughly $ 5.1 billion market is less than 5 % . 
`` This means Nestle is now in the candybar business in a big way , '' said Lisbeth Echeandia , publisher of Orlando , Fla.-based Confectioner Magazine . 
`` For them , it makes all kinds of sense . 
Catastrophe losses reduced Aetna 's net income by $ 50 million , including $ 36 million from Hugo . 
In the latest quarter , Aetna had a $ 23 million loss on its auto\/homeowners line , compared with earnings of $ 33 million last year . 
Here , at a soccer stadium near the black township of Soweto yesterday , were eight leaders of the African National Congress , seven of whom had spent most of their adult lives in prison for sabotage and conspiracy to overthrow the government . 
Here , at a soccer stadium near the black township of Soweto yesterday , were eight leaders of the African National Congress , seven of whom had spent most of their adult lives in prison for sabotage and conspiracy to overthrow the government . Here were more than 70,000 ANC supporters , gathering for the first ANC rally inside South Africa since the black liberation movement was banned in 1960 . 
But the words that boomed over the loudspeakers bore messages of peace , unity , negotiation and discipline . 
`` We stand for peace today and we will stand for peace tomorrow , '' said Walter Sisulu , the ANC 's former secretary general who , along with five of his colleagues , served 26 years in prison before being released two weeks ago . 
These are curious times in South African politics . 
The government and the ANC , the bitterest of enemies , are engaged in an elaborate mating dance designed to entice each other to the negotiating table . 
Pretoria releases the ANC leaders , most of whom were serving life sentences , and allows them to speak freely , hoping that the ANC will abandon its use of violence . 
The result is that the unthinkable and illogical are happening . 
Six months ago , government approval for an ANC rally was inconceivable . 
Equally inconceivable is that the ANC , given the chance to hold a rally , would extend a hand , albeit warily , to the government . 
The ANC vows to keep up pressure on the government . 
Speakers yesterday called on foreign governments to increase sanctions against Pretoria and urged supporters inside the country to continue defying emergency restrictions and racial segregation , known as apartheid . 
Because the ANC remains banned , both the government , which approved the rally , and the organizers , who orchestrated it , denied it was an ANC rally . 
The recently released leaders sat high atop a podium in one section of the stadium stands . 
Behind them was a huge ANC flag and an even bigger sign that said `` ANC Lives , ANC Leads . '' 
Next to them was the red flag of the outlawed South African Communist Party , which has long been an ANC ally . 
`` There can be no question of us unilaterally abandoning the armed struggle , '' he said . `` 
To date , we see no clear indication that the government is serious about negotiations . 
For the first time since the mid-1970s , Westinghouse this year has seen a significant increase in orders for power plants . 
Analysts agree , predicting that the revived market could significantly boost Westinghouse 's bottom line in coming years . 
`` Westinghouse 's earnings could be materially enhanced in the mid-1990s or sooner , '' says Russell L. Leavitt , of Salomon Brothers Inc . 
The company expects a need for 140,000 megawatts of new generation in the U.S. over the next decade . 
Westinghouse 's own role as a supplier also is changing . 
At the same time , Westinghouse hopes its venture with Mitsubishi will help fend off growing competition , particularly in the U.S. , from such European competitors as Asea Brown Boveri AG , Siemens AG , and British General Electric Co . 
The Westinghouse-Mitsubishi venture was designed as a non-equity transaction , circumventing any possible antitrust concerns . 
It is expected that the current surge in demand for new power will be filled primarily by independent producers which , unlike utilities , are n't regulated and therefore do n't need government approval to construct new plants . 
Even if that scenario occurs , Westinghouse figures it is prepared . 
The company already is gearing up for a renaissance of nuclear power even though it has n't received an order for a domestic nuclear plant in a decade . 
John C. Marous , chairman and chief executive officer , says he expects a commercial order by 1995 for the company 's AP600 nuclear power plant , which is under development . 
Among the things I learned covering the World Series these past few weeks is that the Richter scale , which measures earthquakes , is n't like the one in your bathroom . 
A quake that measures two on the Richter is n't twice as severe as a `` one '' -- it 's 10 times worse . 
A quake that measures two on the Richter is n't twice as severe as a `` one '' -- it 's 10 times worse . A `` three '' is 10 times 10 again , and so on . 
That put the `` seven '' of Oct. 17 in perspective for me . 
By Richterian standards , the show that the Oakland Athletics put on Friday and Saturday nights , in putting a mercifully swift end to the game 's Longest Short Series , rated somewhere between a 10 and an 11 . 
The Pale Pachyderms propelled six of 'em out of the unfriendly confines of Candlestick Park during the two games en route to 13-7 and 9-6 wins over the San Francisco Giants . 
The joke here is that the Giants lost by de fault . 
That 's geologically correct , but a trifle unfair otherwise . 
They led for nary an inning in the four games , and managed to stir their fans only once . 
`` I went out to Todd -LCB- Burns , the A 's reliever -RCB- and told him that we were n't gon na let this guy beat us , '' said Oakland catcher Terry Steinbach of the decisive confrontation with Mitchell , the National League 's reigning home-run king . 
`` I told him to make Mitchell reach for everything , and that 's what we did . 
The ball he hit was n't a strike . 
But if the A 's had n't won in four , they would have prevailed in five , or six , or seven . 
The best team won this Series , which is more unusual than it may sound . 
Baseball ai n't football , where the good teams beat up on the bad ones . 
The best baseball teams win six of 10 games and the worst win four of 10 . 
Without becoming overly contentious , allow me to suggest that several recent champions of the world according to us -LRB- as in U.S. -RRB- might not have ranked No. 1 in many polls . 
These A 's , however , got few grades as low as B on their 1989 report card . 
They led the Major Leagues in regular-season wins with 99 and flattened the Toronto Blue Jays four games to one for the American League pennant before stomping their cross-bay rivals . 
The pithiest testimony to their domination of the just-concluded tournament came from Giants ' manager Roger Craig after his team had fallen in Game Three to a five-home-run barrage that tied a 61-year-old Series record . 
The A 's offensive showing in the Series got an A , as in awesome . 
Their 85 total bases broke a record for a four-game set , and their nine home runs tied one . 
Their 85 total bases broke a record for a four-game set , and their nine home runs tied one . Eight Oakland players hit homers , with centerfielder Dave Henderson getting two , both on Friday . 
The sole A not to homer was cleanup hitter Mark McGwire , their regular-season leader with 33 , and he contributed five hits plus a diving fielding play on a ground ball in Game Three that stopped a Giant rally while the issue still was in doubt . 
Even with that power show , though , the Oakland Series ' star , certified by the Most Valuable Player award , was a pitcher , Dave Stewart . 
Stewart 's honor was a nice note on a couple of grounds . 
One was that , despite his 62 regular-season wins over the past three seasons in the Land Beyond the Late News , he has been overshadowed by his more-muscular mates and missed out on prizes that might have been his due . 
Afterward , as the A 's toasted their victory with beer -LRB- they dispensed with traditional champagne showers in deference to the quake victims -RRB- , Stewart said he thought his championship-team ring would outshine his individual trophy . 
Indeed , the possibility of an A 's ring cycle , a\/k\/a a dynasty , was a major topic of post-game discussion Saturday , so much so that Sandy Alderson , the team 's general manager , felt obliged to dampen it . 
`` People change , teams change , '' he cautioned . 
He might have added an interesting historical fact : The last Series sweep , by the Cincinnati Reds , came in 1976 , which also was the first year of baseball player free agency . 
It was widely predicted that free agency would allow the glamorous , `` big market '' teams to monopolize the best talent , but quite the opposite has occurred : Twelve different clubs have won titles in the 14 seasons since its advent . 
`` But in the real world , you learn that speed and quality are not a trade-off . 
Companies that actually market speed as part of their service train their managers to lead and participate in teams that increase speed and improve quality in everyday operations . 
One team at the Federal Express Ground Operations station in Natick , Mass. , focused on a particularly time-sensitive operation : the morning package sort . 
Every morning , tractor-trailer trucks arrive at the Natick Ground Station from Boston 's Logan Airport , carrying the day 's package load . 
In peak periods that load may include 4,000 pieces . 
The packages must be sorted quickly and distributed to smaller vans for delivery , so couriers can be on the road by 8:35 . 
`` We 're committed to deliver the customer 's package by a stated time , usually 10:30 , '' notes Glenn Mortimer , a Federal Express courier who led the Natick team . 
But we did n't know just where it was until we completed our data gathering , '' Mr. Mortimer says . 
`` We used the data to redesign our sorting system and put our resources where they could do the most good . '' 
The team even created a points system to identify those couriers and subgroups that were doing the most to reduce package-sort cycle time . 
`` Monitoring shows that the Natick team 's new system really does reduce cycle time for the morning package sort , '' reports James Barksdale , chief operating officer at Federal Express . 
Armed with this shared understanding and requisite background information , each department developed its specialized contribution to the proposal , submitting data and cost estimates on a closely managed schedule . 
The team trimmed more than two months from the cycle time previously required to develop comparable proposals . 
`` The team eliminated the crisis mentality that proposal deadlines can generate . 
The successes achieved at Federal Express , Union Carbide and Grumman suggest that managing speed may be an underutilized source of competitive advantage . 
Managers in all three companies recognize speed as a component of quality and a key to customer satisfaction . 
The report says the availability of such advanced analog recording equipment as cassette recorders does n't seem to increase the quantity of home copying . 
`` I think it is a nail in the coffin in any royalty tax proposal , '' says Gary Shapiro , vice president for government and legal affairs of the Electronic Industries Association in Washington . 
`` What -LCB- the report -RCB- shows is everything we 've been saying for the past eight or nine years -- that audio taping is the best thing to happen for the recording industry . 
Under current copyright laws , it is considered `` fair use '' to reproduce copyrighted material for one 's personal use or for use by one 's family or friends , while copying for purposes of resale or profit is prohibited . 
Switzerland 's most famous raider says he is n't one . 
And in little more than a decade of being friendly -- and at the same time rocking the staid Swiss business community with some U.S.-style wheeling and dealing -- the 46-year-old Mr. Rey has grown from a modest banker to a billionaire . 
This will be his return on an original investment of between 50 million Swiss francs and 80 million Swiss francs . 
Home is an estate with green meadows opening onto Lake Geneva and a low-slung house whose rooms overlook the water and offer a view of the French Alps . 
In the corner of his reception room is a delicate antique desk piled high with dossiers . 
Zurich-based magazine Bilanz lists Mr. Rey as having a fortune of about 1.5 billion Swiss francs . 
Writes Bilanz : `` No one in Switzerland ever came so far so fast ... 
Sitting beside a banker at a luncheon in London , where he was working as a financial consultant , he learned that a large packet of Bally 's shares was up for sale . 
Looking into Bally , he could hardly believe what he saw : a company with enormous real-estate holdings in major European cities and a market capitalization of 28 million Swiss francs 
But such tactics were alien to Switzerland in 1976 , and still are n't common because of share restrictions that companies are allowed to maintain . 
Mr. Rey made 50 million Swiss francs on the sale . 
`` Bally was not an unfriendly takeover , '' he insists . 
Buying from willing shareholders makes an unfriendly takeover impossible , Mr. Rey contends . 
In 1979 , his career as an industrialist began with the acquisition of the Swiss metals works Selve , based in Thun . 
But Mr. Rey brought about a merger in the next few years between the country 's major producers 
A major boost to Mr. Rey 's respectability among the Swiss came in 1986 when he sold 60 % of his Phibro Bank to the conservative Swiss cantonal banks . 
They renamed it Swiss Cantobank and are using it to expand abroad . 
And with the recent acquisition of 30 % of Winterthur-based machinery manufacturer Gebrueder Sulzer AG , Mr. Rey has enjoyed the status of white knight . 
For financial analysts , reading Omni 's accounts is a tough challenge . 
Financial analysts note that Mr. Rey is attracted to companies that are undervalued on the basis of their real-estate interests . 
In August , Omni unexpectedly bought Inspectorate 's 80 % stake in Harpener AG of West Germany , a land-rich company . 
Mr. Rey says the move is yet another example of his conservatism . 
He explains that companies with real estate give `` security . '' 
He says he wants to `` influence '' but not `` manage '' companies . 
`` I do n't want to be like -LCB- financier Alan -RCB- Bond and the other Australians . 
I do n't want companies to be built around me as a person . 
Meanwhile , Boeing officials and representatives of the Machinists union met separately last night with a federal mediator in an attempt to break the month-old strike that has shut the aerospace giant 's assembly lines at a time when it has an $ 80 billion backlog of jetliner orders . 
Machinists already have rejected a package that would provide a 10 % pay raise plus bonuses over the three-year life of the contract . 
However , the resolve of some of the striking 57,000 machinists might be weakening . 
While Boeing 's commercial business is booming , its military business is feeling the effects of a declining defense budget after a strong buildup during the Reagan presidency . 
In addition , Boeing said it also will reorganize all its work in Wichita into military and commercial divisions . 
Analysts agreed . 
`` It 's a further step to better returns in the hemorrhaging defense business , '' said Steven Binder , an analyst with Bear , Stearns & Co. in New York . 
Howard Rubel , an analyst with C.J. Lawrence , Morgan Grenfell Inc. in New York , said the shift reflects Boeing confidence in Mr. Pinick , described by Mr. Rubel as an expert on doing business with the military . 
The U.S. had been under pressure from several Cocom members , especially France , West Germany and Italy , to ease restrictions on some types of machine tools , which those countries argued were now widely available to East Bloc countries from non-Cocom members . 
But U.S. officials said representatives at the meeting decided that this was `` a matter for further discussion at future meetings . '' 
The U.S. officials said that despite the rapid changes under way in Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union , all the Cocom members agreed on `` the continuing need for this organization , '' which was founded 40 years ago at the start of the Cold War . 
The U.S. officials said that despite the rapid changes under way in Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union , all the Cocom members agreed on `` the continuing need for this organization , '' which was founded 40 years ago at the start of the Cold War . The officials said the meeting agreed to continue working toward `` streamlining '' Cocom 's restricted products list , and to improve procedures for punishing companies that do n't comply with the export restrictions . 
`` Unisys is getting clobbered . 
Just clobbered , '' said Ulric Weil , an analyst at Weil & Associates who had once been high on the company . 
Unisys , whose revenue inched up 3.7 % in the quarter to $ 2.35 billion from $ 2.27 billion in the year-earlier quarter , had an operating loss of about $ 30 million . 
That is at the high end of the range of 7,000 to 8,000 employees that Unisys said a month ago would be laid off . 
The company also reported slower growth in another important business : systems that use the Unix operating system . 
In addition , Unisys must deal with its increasingly oppressive debt load . 
Debt has risen to around $ 4 billion , or about 50 % of total capitalization . 
Jim Unruh , Unisys 's president , said he is approaching next year with caution . 
He also said that the price wars flaring up in parts of the computer industry will continue through next year . 
He said the move toward standard operating systems means customers are n't locked into buying from their traditional computer supplier and can force prices down . 
`` We 've approached this not as a response to a temporary condition in the industry but as a fundamental change the industry is going through , '' Mr. Unruh said . 
Securities analysts were even more cautious , having been burned repeatedly on Unisys this year . 
So Steve Milunovich at First Boston said he is cutting his earnings estimate for next year to $ 2 a share from $ 3 . 
Mr. Weil of Weil & Associates said he will remain at $ 1 a share for next year but said he wonders whether even that low target is at risk . 
If a TV weatherman gets butterflies facing the camera again after a questionable forecast , Donald H. Straszheim surely understands . 
Mr. Straszheim expects he will take some heat , and he 's right . 
The forecasts were widely disseminated , and , in a splashy ad campaign launched in the summer of 1988 , Merrill Lynch urged investors to buy bonds . 
But this September -- just when many market economists , including some at Merrill Lynch , believed that Mr. Straszheim was about to be proved right -- he took a detour if not a U-turn . 
Two well-known colleagues who believe Mr. Straszheim was right the first time are David Bostian Jr. and A. Gary Shilling , both of whom run their own New York research firms . 
Mr. Bostian said in August that his macroeconomic index signaled recession . 
Mr. Shilling , who was Merrill Lynch 's chief economist from 1967 to 1971 , has heralded a recession for months . 
And Mr. Straszheim conceded after a recent drop in manufacturing jobs that `` it may prove to be the case that we got whipsawed -- that we pulled the recession forecast at just the wrong time . '' 
However risky the business , it 's brisk these days . 
This is n't the quiet economic science practiced in the universities . 
Carrying the new message on the road , Mr. Straszheim meets confrontation that often occurs in inverse proportion to the size of the client . 
No sophisticated professional expects economists to be right all the time . 
Dennis O'Brien , the treasurer of Commonwealth Edison Co. in Chicago , adopts a polite approach , waiting for an opportunity to ask about the forecast . 
A good half-hour into breakfast at the Palmer House , Mr. O'Brien looks up from his plate after Mr. Straszheim says something about people who believe interest rates are about to nosedive . 
Is that the forecast ? '' Mr. O'Brien asks , trying to pin down the economist . 
In a chilly conference room at Alliance Capital Management in Minneapolis , in contrast , the firm 's money managers seem ready to pin Mr. Straszheim to the wall . 
It 's all in this handout you do n't want to look at . 
Swiveling in his chair , Mr. Straszheim replies that the new outlook , though still weak , does n't justify calling a recession right now . `` It 's all in this handout you do n't want to look at . We could still have a recession '' at some point . 
One of Mr. Straszheim 's recurring themes is that the state of the economy is n't a simple black or white . 
Another challenges Merrill Lynch 's bond recommendation last year . 
`` We 're not running that ad campaign any more , '' Mr. Straszheim snaps in a rare show of irritation . 
Explaining his change of mind , Mr. Straszheim says later , `` It 's hard to pin this on one factor . '' 
He says the economy , and especially the employment numbers , look much better than he expected ; interest rates have generally declined ; inflation has n't run amok . 
Mr. Shilling understands Mr. Straszheim 's problems . 
`` There 's unbelievable pressure on economists to forecast these numbers , '' he says . `` 
It is indeed hard to back away from a widely publicized forecast , and Mr. Straszheim is fidgeting with the handcuffs on this trip . 
His approach to the recantation is direct but low-key . 
`` For some time , we had forecast negative third - and fourth-quarter growth . 
Crane holds 504,200 Milton Roy shares , including 254,200 bought from Sept. 14 to Thursday for $ 15.50 to $ 16.75 each . 
Milton Roy recently fended off unsolicited overtures from Thermo Electron Corp. , a Waltham , Mass. , maker of biomedical products . 
Milton Roy disclosed in May that it was approached for a possible acquisition by Thermo Electron , which agreed to purchase Milton Roy 's liquid-chromatography line for $ 22 million in February . 
Gabelli Group began raising its Milton Roy stake in July , and holds 14.6 % , according to a recent SEC filing . 
Last week the British displayed unusual political immaturity . 
The Chancellor of the Exchequer , Nigel Lawson , resigned because Prime Minister Thatcher would not fire her trusted adviser Sir Alan Walters . 
The opposition Labor Party leader , Neil Kinnock , in a display of the male chauvinism typical of the British lower class , denounced Mrs. Thatcher for having an independent mind and refusing to heed the men in her Cabinet . 
Behind the silly posturing lies a real dispute . 
Mr. Lawson and his European-minded colleagues want the British pound formally tied to the West German mark . 
Until his resignation , Mr. Lawson had been conducting British monetary policy as if the pound were tied to the mark . 
With inflation surging , the pound began falling against the mark . 
To keep the exchange rate pegged , Mr. Lawson tightened monetary policy and pushed interest rates up to 15 % . 
Instead of realizing his mistake in letting the exchange rate dominate both British economic policy and Mrs. Thatcher 's political fortune , Mr. Lawson pushed for tying the pound formally to the mark by entering the European Monetary System , which subordinates all member currencies to German monetary policy . 
This put Mrs. Thatcher in a bind . 
If the pound had been tied to the mark , the British would have been unable to cut their exorbitant tax rates . 
The reason is simple . 
It was fear of disturbing EMS exchange-rate relationships that caused the Chirac government in France to be timid about cutting tax rates . 
The price of attracting capital -- whether one 's own or that of foreigners -- is a trade deficit . 
To avoid this deficit Mr. Lawson inflated the pound in order to prevent its rise . 
Consequently , Mr. Lawson saddled Mrs. Thatcher with a record trade deficit , renewed inflation and high interest rates -- three political failures in a row . 
It is extraordinary that the British Treasury thought it could prevent a trade deficit by inflating the pound . 
The British balance-of-payments statistics show that after the top tax rate was cut to 40 % , the flow abroad of British capital slowed , to 50 billion pounds -LRB- $ 79 billion at the current rate -RRB- in 1988 from 93 billion pounds in 1986 . 
Nigel Lawson was a victim of the immense confusion in thought that has been characteristic of Western financial circles during the 1980s . 
The most important governments have ignored the role of low tax rates in attracting real capital investment , instead emphasizing financial flows in response to high interest rates . 
First comes monetary expansion to drive down the currency 's value that was pushed up by tax-rate reduction . Then , when the currency falls , interest rates are raised to attract financial flows in order to stabilize the exchange rate . 
Britain and all of Europe need to reconsider the prospects for European integration in light of the possible reunification and neutralization of Germany . 
A unified Germany that remained within the Western alliance would give Germany such an overshadowing position that all other members of a unified Europe would become vassals of the German state . 
Unless the Soviet Union collapses , German reunification is likely to require Germany 's neutralization . 
Personal spending grew 0.2 % in September to a $ 3.526 trillion annual rate , the Commerce Department said . 
At the same time , personal income was held down by the effects of Hurricane Hugo , which tore through parts of North and South Carolina in late September . 
The department said personal income rose 0.3 % in September to a $ 4.469 trillion rate but would have climbed 0.6 % had it not been for the storm . 
But the new statistics show that by September , the burst in spending seemed to be tapering off . 
`` I do n't think there 's a lot in the wings '' in other sectors of the economy to keep growth above 1 % , he said . 
Analysts have attributed much of the summer 's spurt in spending to bargain car prices at the end of the model year . 
Car sales slackened in September after the 1990 models were introduced . 
`` We 'd like to continue to reduce debt , '' President Lawrence Perlman said . 
He said the company has no intention of tapping its short-term bank lines `` for a good part of 1990 . '' 
Sometime next year , Control Data will `` develop a new bank relationship , '' Mr. Perlman said . 
Loan covenants require that the company achieve specified levels of operating earnings and meet a rolling four-quarter profitability test . 
Last week Control Data reported third-quarter earnings of $ 9.8 million , or 23 cents a share , on revenue of $ 763 million . 
While a few assets are still being shopped -- including the sports and entertainment ticketing portion of the company 's Ticketron unit -- Mr. Price said future restructuring would be a question of strategy . 
Rather , Mr. Perlman said , Control Data intends to bid for the coming Minnesota lottery contract and is seeking new applications for the technology overseas , where `` there is great interest in games of skill . '' 
The company 's strategy for keeping its computer products business profitable -- it recently achieved profitability after several quarters of losses -- calls for a narrow focus and a lid on expenses . 
Partly , costs will be held down through strategic technology alliances , management said . 
James E. Ousley , computer products group president , said such arrangements could help slash Control Data 's computer research and development costs in half by the end of 1990 . 
He disclosed that before Control Data scrapped its ETA Systems Inc. supercomputer business this past spring , those costs were running at nearly 35 % of group revenue . 
Asked how the company hopes to expand its computer hardware business , Mr. Ousley said it sees good opportunities in systems integration . 
`` We think we 're getting only 10 % of the integration dollars our customers are spending , '' he said . 
Control Data mainframes are designed for numerically intensive computing users , such as the scientific , engineering and academic communities . 
Reviewing the company 's scrape with disaster , Mr. Price conceded it had tried to do too much on its own . 
But while its stock is selling at about half Control Data 's estimated breakup value , neither Messrs. Perlman nor Price said he spends much time considering the possibility of a hostile takeover . 
Well , the arrogant East Coast media have spoken again -LRB- `` Going for the Green , '' editorial , Oct. 17 -RRB- . 
Perhaps it 's entertaining for those like you to discount the concerns of environmentalists , suggesting that their save-the-earth initiatives are `` whacky '' and referring to so many citizens as `` la-la activists . '' 
While there are no easy low-cost solutions , simply ignoring our problems will result in their severity increasing and spreading throughout the state , the nation and the world . 
I realize you were just looking for something snotty to say about California and its environmental movement , but picking Frank Lloyd Wright to say it for you was a bad call . 
As for California being a state run by liberal environmental loonies , let 's not forget where Ronald Reagan came from . 
Your editorial was commendable and neatly matched by the readers ' comments in letters to the editor , `` Alar : Scaring on the Side of Caution . '' 
The illogic and inaccuracy of John H. Adams 's comments for the National Resources Defense Council fully justifies your characterization of California 's Greens in particular as `` la-la activists . '' 
I have a different approach to offer , not only to Californians , but to all Americans . 
In a free country , the law should restrict citizens as little as is consistent with good manners and public safety . 
According to the association 's annual report , scheduled to be released today in Warsaw , IATA members have n't posted such a strong performance since the late 1970s . 
The group attributed the strong results to the favorable economic climate , rising demand for air travel and improved average yield -LRB- revenue received per ton of traffic transported a kilometer -RRB- . 
The KGB has abolished a unit known for persecuting dissidents , the government newspaper Izvestia said . 
The newspaper quoted KGB chairman Vladimir A. Kryuchkov as saying the definition of anti-Soviet crimes had narrowed , the laws had changed and people no longer have to fear a simple slip of the tongue . 
Czechoslovakia has restricted consumer-goods exports to neighbor countries because of `` massive buying out of food '' by tourists from Poland , Hungary and the Soviet Union , the Rude Pravo daily said . 
West Germany 's biggest union , IG Metall , said it is ready to back demands for more pay and shorter hours with strikes against the nation 's automotive , steel and engineering industries . 
Last week came news of alarm in Venice over a plan to tap gas fields off the city 's coast . 
Now comes word from a scientist that over the next century Venice will sink nearly three times faster than the present rate because of the `` greenhouse effect . '' 
West Germany 's Quelle said it will establish a mail-order operation with two local partners in the Soviet Union next year . 
Saying this is a first for a Western company , West Germany 's largest mail-order group said the newly established Moscow-based Intermoda company is scheduled to begin operations in February 1990 . 
Sri Lanka , where more than 15,000 people have died in six years of ethnic turmoil , said it will ban sex and violence from state-owned television next year . 
`` Many programs we have now come from the West and are not suitable to our culture , '' a government minister said . 
For the 10-month fiscal year ended Sept. 30 , Chairman Eli Broad said he expected earnings results to approximate analysts ' estimates , which the company said have been revised upward to 80 cents a share . 
In the opener , Sony Corp. would agree to buy Columbia Pictures Entertainment Inc. in a transaction valued at close to $ 5 billion . 
Shortly after that , Sony would offer to buy Guber-Peters Entertainment Co. for $ 200 million and offer its co-chairmen , Peter Guber and Jon Peters , the chance to run Columbia . 
That 's where the two scripts would diverge . 
In affidavits filed in Los Angeles Superior Court in connection with the $ 1 billion breach-of-contract suit Warner brought against Sony for hiring the two producers , Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters tell one story . 
In the affidavits , Mr. Peters says he was `` shocked '' when Mr. Ross refused a meeting and made it clear he would stop them . 
Mr. Peters claims he reminded Mr. Ross that Robert Daly and Terry Semel , the top executives of the Warner Brothers studio , had `` repeatedly agreed that we had every right to accept '' an offer such as Sony 's . 
In response , Mr. Peters says , Mr. Ross referred to his colleagues at Warner with an `` obscenity '' and said : `` Tell them that they do n't have a job . 
Warner denies Mr. Ross ever said any such thing , and , in fact , denies virtually everything Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters say in their affidavits . 
Tomorrow , Warner will file another batch of documents contending that `` the essence of everything these guys are saying is basically lies , '' says Warner 's chief outside counsel , Stuart Rabinowitz . 
The matter may never even be tried in court . 
Warner says that what it really wants is for the producers to fulfill their contractual obligations , but the bitterness of this battle and the accusations flying on both sides make it unlikely that the decade-long relationship between Warner and its two most prolific producers can ever be repaired . 
Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters do n't have much to gain from a protracted battle . 
Sony , for its part , could decide that the cost of a Warner settlement or court fight is too high , choosing instead to find someone else to run Columbia , although that too would be costly given the financial arrangement already guaranteed to Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters . 
At the center of any court fight will be the differing interpretations of the written contract between Warner and the two producers , but other murkier issues will play a big role . 
Sony and the Guber-Peters team are hanging much of their case on Warner 's willingness last year to release the producers from another contract and on an oral agreement they say allowed them to terminate the current written contract if the opportunity to run a major studio came up . 
Just how rancorous the relationship has become is clear from the differing versions of the two sides ' current business dealings . 
Mr. Peters says in his affidavit that the movie 's staff was told last week that Warner was `` taking over '' the picture , and another producer would be giving all of the orders . 
Hubert de la Bouillaire , an editor on the film , backs Mr. Peters in a separate sworn declaration . 
Mr. de la Bouillaire says Warner Brothers production president Mark Canton called him Oct. 19 and said Mr. Peters is `` off the picture . 
The editor also says the new producer on the film , Bruce Baird , told editors to screen the picture without telling stars Sylvester Stallone and Kurt Russell or Mr. Peters . 
`` The less they know , the easier it is for us . 
That , says Warner 's Mr. Rabinowitz , is `` a total 100 % lie . '' 
The movie , he says , is in its post-production stages of `` cleaning up the film . '' 
He says Mr. Peters and Mr. Guber , as the contractual producers with consultation rights , have been invited to screenings and to give their input on the film . 
Mr. Guber says he brought to lunch a release document Warner had agreed to in 1988 , when he and Mr. Peters made an aborted bid to buy part of MGM\/UA Entertainment Co. to run the MGM studio . 
Mr. Guber says he had crossed out `` MGM '' with a red pen and written in `` Columbia , '' giving the document to Mr. Semel . 
Mr. Semel , in his affidavit , does n't mention any hugging or congratulating . 
He says he told Mr. Guber he could n't sign any documents and that `` the deal , although apparently a good one for him and Mr. Peters , would have a very negative impact on Warner . '' 
But Sony is a problem . '' 
Some in Hollywood suggest Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters took encouragement from Warner studio executives such as Mr. Semel and Mr. Canton too literally . 
Mr. Rabinowitz , the Warner attorney , says the studio still wants the producers to come back and fulfill their contract . 
Even White House budget director Richard Darman had trouble finding a silver lining in the report . 
The 1989 deficit would have been nearly $ 10 billion larger had the government been able to spend as much as Congress intended on cleaning up the thrift industry before the year ended on Sept. 30 . 
The law sets a deficit target of $ 100 billion for fiscal 1990 . 
The White House and the Democratic leadership in Congress blame each other for turning capital-gains taxes into such a divisive issue this year . 
In all , federal outlays amounted to $ 1.143 trillion in 1989 , up 7.5 % from the previous year , the Treasury said . 
The Treasury said a surge in tax receipts noted earlier in the year did n't turn out to be quite as strong as it first appeared . 
Outlays for the month totaled $ 105.39 billion , up from $ 87.57 billion a year earlier . 
Consumers Power Co. , now the main unit of CMS Energy , ran into financial problems over its $ 4.2 billion Midland nuclear plant , which was abandoned as a nuclear facility in 1984 because of construction delays and high costs . 
The refund is about $ 9 million . 
Japanese government officials , eager to rebut foreign criticism of Japanese investments overseas , hailed the transaction as proof foreigners can make similar investments in Japan . 
But analysts say Sansui is a special case . 
But analysts say Sansui is a special case . It expects to post a loss of 6.4 billion yen for the year ending tomorrow and its liabilities currently exceed its assets by about 13.8 billion yen . `` 
Nor do analysts expect the Sansui deal to touch off a fresh wave of foreign purchases . 
Usually when a Japanese company is ready to sell , it has few alternatives remaining , and the grim demeanors of Sansui 's directors at a joint news conference here left little doubt that this was not the company 's finest hour . 
Some of Sansui 's fellow audio-specialty companies , such as Aiwa Co. and Pioneer Electric Corp. , responded to the challenge by quickly bringing out mini-component products of their own , by moving heavily into the booming compact disk businesses or by diversifying into other consumer-electronics fields , including laser disks or portable cassette players . 
As the yen soared in recent years , Sansui 's deepening financial problems became a vicious circle . 
While competitors moved production offshore in response to the sagging competitiveness of Japanese factories , Sansui lacked the money to build new plants in Southeast Asia . 
Yoshihisa Murasawa , a management consultant for Booz-Allen & Hamilton -LRB- Japan -RRB- Inc. , said his firm will likely be recommending acquisitions of Japanese companies more often to foreign clients in the future . 
`` Attitudes -LCB- toward being acquired -RCB- are still negative , but they 're becoming more positive , '' Mr. Murasawa said . 
Whether Polly Peck 's acquisition makes sense remains to be seen , but at the news conference , Mr. Nadir brimmed with self-confidence that he can turn Sansui around . 
Such risk taking is an everyday matter for the brash Mr. Nadir , who is 25 % owner of Polly Peck as well as its chairman . 
He took Polly Peck , once a small fabric wholesaler , and used it at as a base to build a conglomerate that has been doubling its profits annually since 1980 . 
Moreover , the amended pact shows how McCaw 's persistence has pushed LIN and BellSouth into a corner , forcing huge debt on the proposed new company . 
That money also would have to be borrowed . 
`` We 're taking on more debt than we would have liked to , '' acknowledged Michael Plouf , LIN 's vice president and treasurer . 
Analyst estimate the value of the BellSouth proposal at about $ 115 to $ 125 a share . 
They value McCaw 's bid at $ 112 to $ 118 a share . 
McCaw , the largest provider of cellular telephone service in the U.S. , already owns about 9.4 % of LIN 's stock . 
In response to BellSouth 's amended pact , the Kirkland , Wash. , company extended its own offer to buy 22 million LIN shares for $ 125 apiece , which would give McCaw a 50.3 % controlling interest . 
Over the weekend , McCaw continued to call for an auction of LIN . 
`` This game is n't over yet , '' said Joel D. Gross , a vice president at Donaldson , Lufkin & Jenrette Securities Corp . 
Under its revised proposal , Atlanta-based BellSouth would have a 50 % interest in the new cellular company and would be responsible for half of its debt . 
McCaw 's bid also has a similar clause . 
`` We 're very pleased with the new deal . 
BellSouth 's `` back-end protection was flawed previously . 
We think this is a superior deal to McCaw 's . 
We 're surprised . 
But Kenneth Leon , a telecommunications analyst with Bear , Stearns & Co. , finds the BellSouth proposal still flawed because the company does n't have to wait five years to begin buying more LIN shares . 
`` How many shares will be around in 1995 ? '' he asked . 
BellSouth 's revised proposal surprised many industry analysts , especially because of the company 's willingness to accept some dilution of future earnings . 
For 1988 , BellSouth earned $ 1.7 billion , or $ 3.51 a share , on revenue of $ 13.6 billion . 
Indeed , McCaw seemed to hint at that option in a brief statement . 
Their motivation , however , has a strong practical aspect : Program trading is hazardous to their paychecks . 
The portion of OTC volume attributable to program trading is n't known , as it is on the New York Stock Exchange , where it amounted to more than 13 % in September . 
Other market-maker gripes : Program trading also causes the Nasdaq Composite Index to lose ground against other segments of the stock market . 
Shearson , Merrill Lynch and Goldman Sachs say they do so only for customers , however . 
That 's largely because of defensive measures they adopted after the 1987 crash , when individual investors fled the market and trading activity dwindled . 
And to protect their reduced capital investment from eroding further , market makers became quicker to lower price quotes when sell programs are in progress . 
On days when prices are tumbling , they must be willing to buy shares from sellers when no one else will . 
But this skittishness , Mr. Antolini says , is creating liquidity problems in certain OTC stocks . 
`` It 's harder to sell stocks when the sell programs come in because some market makers do n't want to -LCB- take the orders -RCB- . 
But , he observes , while makers suffer losses when program trading drags the market down , they also make money when program trading pushes the prices higher . 
These big stocks greatly influence the Nasdaq Composite Index . 
This gap eventually closes , but slowly . 
The main reason for this lag is that individual investors own 65 % of the OTC market 's capitalization , according to Mr. Hardiman , much more than on the Big Board . 
The Nasdaq Composite Index tumbled 5.39 , or 1.2 % to 452.76 on Friday . 
Weakness in big technology stocks hurt the composite as well as the Nasdaq 100 Index , which fell 1.4 % , or 6.43 , on Friday , to 437.68 . 
Friday 's trading volume totaled 132.8 million shares . 
LIN Broadcasting surged 4 5\/8 to 112 5\/8 
LIN Broadcasting surged 4 5\/8 to 112 5\/8 ; LIN and BellSouth sweetened their merger agreement in an attempt to keep shareholders from tendering their shares to McCaw Cellular Communications . 
The revised LIN-BellSouth agreement boosts the dollar amount of the special dividend LIN promises to pay shareholders . 
Intel eased 1\/8 to 31 7\/8 . 
The semiconductor concern said the interruption in shipment of its 80486 computer chip will be brief and have little impact on the company 's earnings . 
Kirschner Medical fell 4 to 15 . 
The company said its third-quarter earnings will probably be lower than the 16 cents a share it reported last year , despite a rise in the company 's revenue . 
London shares were depressed initially by overnight losses in New York and by the drop in sterling after Mr. Lawson 's resignation . 
It showed some early resilience after central bank support firmed sterling , but the weight of Wall Street late in London trading , and signs of further weakness in the British pound , proved a hefty load to bear . 
The 30-share index settled 42.0 points lower at 1678.5 . 
British Petroleum fell 5 to 286 on 14 million shares traded . 
In Tokyo , stocks closed lower but above intraday lows in active trading . 
On Friday , the Tokyo stock price index of first section issues was down 15.82 at 2681.76 . 
Frankfurt prices closed lower again Friday , the fourth decline in the past five days and the culmination of a week that saw the DAX index lose 4 % . 
Traders said that selling pressure was n't enormous and that the DAX dropped Friday more on a lack of any substantial buying interest . 
`` It 's the whole uncertainty about what 's happening around us , '' said Valentin Von Korff , a trader at Credit Suisse First Boston in Frankfurt . 
`` If you take away the outside influences , the market itself looks very cheap . 
Traders said the market remains extremely nervous because of the wild swings seen on the New York Stock Exchange last week . 
Share prices also closed lower in Sydney , Hong Kong , Singapore , Taipei , Manila , Wellington and Seoul . 
More than 70,000 people filled a soccer stadium on the outskirts of the black township of Soweto and welcomed freed leaders of the outlawed African National Congress . 
While lawmakers have n't raised the possibility of renewing military aid to the Contras following Ortega 's weekend threat to end a truce , Senate Majority Leader Mitchell said on NBC-TV that Ortega had made `` a very unwise move . 
'' Minority Leader Dole plans to offer a resolution tomorrow denouncing the Nicaraguan president , whose remarks came during a celebration in Costa Rica marking regional moves to democracy . 
Spain 's Socialist Party claimed victory in nationwide elections , saying it had retained its parliamentary majority by one seat . 
With all the votes counted , a government spokesman said Prime Minister Gonzalez 's party won 176 seats in the 350-seat Cortes , or lower house of parliament . 
Thousands of East Germans attended public rallies organized by the Communist leadership and demanded free speech , controls on the security forces and an end to official privileges . 
The gatherings in East Berlin and elsewhere were viewed as part of a government effort to stop activists from staging protests to press their demands . 
Dissidents in Czechoslovakia said the nation 's pro-democracy movement was growing despite the government 's move to crush a protest Saturday in Prague 's Wenceslas Square . 
More than 10,000 demonstrators had called for free elections and the resignation of Communist Party leader Milos Jakes . 
U.S. and Soviet officials are to open a new round of talks today aimed at reducing chemical-weapons arsenals amid superpower differences over whether to stop making the gases . 
Before adjustment for inflation , the association said , orders were up a nominal 5 % . 
In the third quarter , orders rose a real 5 % and a nominal 9 % . 
Mr. Perry , who runs Unilever Group 's world-wide personal-care business , paused to scan the crowd . 
`` I see we have about half the audience working for us , '' he said , tongue in cheek . 
Members of the audience gasped or laughed nervously 
First Unilever , the Anglo-Dutch packaged-goods giant , spent $ 2 billion to acquire brands such as Faberge and Elizabeth Arden . 
Then Procter & Gamble Co. agreed to buy Noxell Corp. for $ 1.3 billion . 
It 's not so much the idea of acquisitions that has agitated the cosmetics industry as the companies doing the acquiring : P&G and Unilever bring with them great experience with mundane products like soap and toilet paper , sparking disdain in the glitzy cosmetics trade ; but they also bring mammoth marketing clout , sparking fear . 
But industry watchers expect them to blend the methodical marketing strategies they use for more mundane products with the more intuitive approach typical of cosmetics companies . 
But some cosmetics-industry executives wonder whether techniques honed in packaged goods will translate to the cosmetics business . 
Estee Lauder Inc. , Revlon Inc. and other cosmetics houses traditionally have considered themselves fashion enterprises whose product development is guided by the creative intuition of their executives . 
`` Just because upscale cosmetics look like packaged goods and smell like packaged goods , it does n't mean they are packaged goods , '' says Leonard Lauder , chief executive of Estee Lauder . 
In contrast to the more artistic nature of traditional cosmetics houses , Unilever and P&G are the habitats of organization men in gray-flannel suits . 
Both companies are conservative marketers that rely on extensive market research . P&G , in particular , rarely rolls out a product nationally before extensive test-marketing . 
P&G already has shown it can meld some traditional packaged-goods techniques with the image-making of the cosmetics trade in the mass-market end of the business . 
Consider Oil of Olay , which P&G acquired as part of Richardson-Vicks International in 1985 . 
The moisturizer , introduced in 1962 , had a dowdy image . 
P&G set out to reposition the brand by broadening the product line to include facial cleansers and moisturizers for sensitive skin . It also redesigned Oil of Olay 's packaging , stamping the traditional pink boxes with gold lines to create a more opulent look . Moreover , P&G shifted its ad campaign from one targeting older women to one featuring a woman in her mid-30s vowing `` not to grow old gracefully . '' 
Goliaths like Unilever and P&G have enormous financial advantages over smaller rivals . 
Next year , Noxell plans to roll out a perfume called Navy , says George L. Bunting Jr. , chairman of Noxell . 
Without P&G 's backing , Noxell might not have been able to spend the estimated $ 5 million to $ 7 million needed to accomplish that without scrimping on its existing brands . 
Further consolidations in the industry could follow . 
Rumors that Unilever is interested in acquiring Schering-Plough Corp. 's Maybelline unit are widespread . 
The presence of Unilever and P&G is likely to increase the impact of advertising on cosmetics . 
Nearly 70 % of cosmetics sales come through mass-distribution outlets such as drug stores and supermarkets , according to Andrew Shore , an analyst at Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc . 
That figure has been inching up for several years . 
The packaged-goods marketers may try filling that gap with a spate of new products . 
That 's led industry executives to speculate that future product development will be driven more by technological innovation than by fashion whims -- especially among mass-market brands . 
`` There will be more emphasis on quality , '' says Guy Peyrelongue , chief executive of Cosmair Inc. , the U.S. licensee of L'Oreal . 
But success for Unilever and P&G is far from guaranteed , as shown by the many consumer-product companies that have tried and failed to master the quirky beauty business . 
In the 1970s , several pharmaceutical and packaged-goods companies , including Colgate-Palmolive Co. , Eli Lilly & Co. , Pfizer Inc. and Schering-Plough acquired cosmetics companies . 
Industry consultants say only Schering-Plough , which makes the mass-market Maybelline , has maintained a meaningful business . 
Unilever already has experienced some disappointment . 
The ritzy world of department-store cosmetics retailing , where Unilever is concentrating its efforts , may prove even more treacherous . 
In this niche , makeup colors change seasonally because they are linked to ready-to-wear fashions . 
Over the past week , the president has agreed to keep the committee informed , usually in advance , of covert actions and to put key intelligence decisions in writing . 
Mr. Bush has pledged as well to respect the 14-year-old executive order barring U.S. agents from assassinating foreign leaders or helping others to do so . 
The new understanding did n't just spring to life in a spontaneous eruption of sweetness and light . 
The White House used television appearances and leaks to argue that congressionally imposed restrictions on covert actions made U.S. support for such coups difficult . 
The senators responded in kind . 
Sen. Boren happily told reporters that there had been `` a meeting of the minds '' with the White House , and that the committee had given Mr. Bush `` a clean slate , '' free of the impediments imposed during the Reagan years . 
There still are some details to be nailed down . 
Moreover , both sides may face political critics . 
Margaret Thatcher 's instinctive response to the latest upheaval in her government is to promise business as usual . 
As the air clears from last week 's storm of resignations and reshufflings , the government faces a daunting job of rebuilding confidence in its policies . 
The prime minister and her new chancellor of the exchequer , the untested John Major , need to haul the country through something like a recession to bring down inflation and set the economy moving again . 
It sounds like the work of a decade , but the deadline is late 1991 , when Mrs. Thatcher is expected to call another national election . 
What 's worrying her supporters is that the economic cycle may be out of kilter with the political timetable . 
Though Mrs. Thatcher has pulled through other crises , supporters wonder if her steely , autocratic ways are the right formula today . 
The prime minister 's insistence on keeping a private coterie of advisers -- including an economic guru who openly criticized former Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson -- confused the financial community . 
The confusion could be costly . 
Currency traders , suspecting Mr. Major wo n't defend the pound strenuously , sent the British currency sharply lower Friday against the dollar and West German mark . 
A continuing slide in the pound could force the government to push through another rise in the base rate , currently 15 % . 
That could shove a weak economy into recession . 
Economists have been anticipating a slump for months , but they now say it will be deeper and longer than they had thought . 
A mild slowdown probably would have run its course by early 1991 , economists say , while the grueling downturn now expected could stretch into 1992 . 
That would leave Mrs. Thatcher little room for maneuver . 
For the Tories to win the next election , voters will need to sense economic improvement for about a year beforehand . 
Though Mrs. Thatcher does n't need to call an election until June 1992 , she would prefer doing so in late 1991 . 
There 's an equally pressing deadline for the government to define its monetary and economic ties to the rest of the European Community . 
It has sent mixed signals about its willingness to take part in the exchange-rate mechanism of the European Monetary System , which links the major EC currencies . 
Since then , the government has left observers wondering if it ever meant to join . 
Sir Alan assailed the monetary arrangement as `` half-baked '' in an article being published in an American economics journal . 
Despite the departure of Mr. Lawson and Sir Alan , the tug-of-war over the EMS could continue . 
Of immediate concern is whether the Thatcher government will continue Mr. Lawson 's policy of tracking the monetary policies of the West German Bundesbank and responding in kind when the Frankfurt authorities move interest rates . 
As Conservatives rally around Mrs. Thatcher during the crisis , many harbor hopes last week 's debacle will prompt change . 
`` We wo n't have any more of this wayward behavior , '' says Sir Peter Hordern , a backbench Tory member of Parliament . 
It 's an unrealistic expectation . 
As long as a decade ago , Mrs. Thatcher declared she did n't want debate in her cabinet 
As long as a decade ago , Mrs. Thatcher declared she did n't want debate in her cabinet ; she wanted strong government . 
Over the weekend , she said she did n't intend to change her style and denied she is authoritarian . 
`` Nonsense , '' she told an interviewer yesterday on London Weekend Television . 
Rand Corp. researchers Linda Waite and Frances Goldscheider analyzed a large sample of married women with at least one child at home between the ages of six and 18 . 
Not unexpectedly , wives , whether working or non-working , did by far the most -- about 80 % of the shopping , laundry and cooking , and about two-thirds of housecleaning , washing dishes , child care and family paper work . 
This pattern was particularly evident among more highly educated couples . 
`` It is clear , '' Ms. Waite says , `` that most of the effect of increasing education has been to shift who is helping the wife\/mother . 
State governments place very low ceilings on how much property people may own or how much income they may keep if they want welfare help on medical bills . 
But separate reports from Joshua Weiner and Denise Spence of the Brookings Institution and Korbin Liu of the Urban Institute find that `` a surprisingly small proportion '' -- only about 10 % -- of residents start out as private payers but `` spend down '' to Medicaid levels in a single nursing home stay before they die or are discharged . 
But a remarkably high percentage -- over half -- are private payers throughout their stay , even a fairly lengthy one . 
For example , 66 % of the 18 to 24 year olds in the four latest surveys favored an `` open housing '' law prohibiting homeowners from refusing on racial grounds to sell to prospective buyers . 
Graduate students are taking longer than ever to get their doctor of philosophy degrees , the National Research Council says . 
October was an edgy month for the practitioners of glasnost , the official Soviet policy of allowing more candor from the nation 's media . 
Why had Mr. Korotich been called ? 
`` I told my driver , '' he said , `` that he was taking my butt to the Central Committee so they can ... '' whack , whack , whack his hand made vigorous spanking gestures on his left palm . `` 
And indeed , as he later reported , that was the import of the meeting . 
Anxious allies of President Mikhail Gorbachev are cautioning media leaders to take it easy , to be careful not to do anything that could be used by Mr. Gorbachev 's opponents . 
The government is nervous . 
According to Mr. Korotich , who was present , Mr. Gorbachev 's publicized tongue-lashing of the press on Oct. 13 was more of a plea : `` Be careful boys 
According to Mr. Korotich , who was present , Mr. Gorbachev 's publicized tongue-lashing of the press on Oct. 13 was more of a plea : `` Be careful boys ; use good judgment . 
In fact , a very high-ranking Soviet official told an American official at a diplomatic dinner that no change in the policy was contemplated . 
The day after that conversation at the residence of the U.S. ambassador , the Brezhnevite editor of Pravda , Victor Afnasjev , was replaced by a college classmate of Mr. Gorbachev 's . 
When Mr. Korotich took it over in 1986 , it sold 250,000 copies 
Glasnost has made celebrities of men like Mr. Korotich . 
Prevented by the Communist Party from getting on its slate of nominees for the new Supreme Soviet , he stood as an independent candidate for Congress from his native Ukraine and won with 84 % of the vote . 
But as astounding as the changes that have already occurred are , there is a fragility to glasnost . 
Censorship is n't a Marxist invention . 
The czars were no civil libertarians . 
As late as the 1890s , the Russian government prevented any coverage of famines . 
So glasnost is not a value woven with steel threads into the fabric of Russian society . 
It is an admirable public relations program initiated by a single political leader during a four-year blink of history . 
What is that point ? 
`` I 'd be destroying myself , '' replies Mr. Korotich , who then asks , `` What would that accomplish ? 
'' His answer reveals his vulnerability -- it also draws the line that Soviet society must cross to enter the normal dialogue of Western culture . 
Judge Albert Green , in Cook County Circuit Court in Chicago , also recognized the suit , filed last May by Robert and Cynthia Langendorf , as a class action covering thousands of Irving customers . 
The plaintiffs accused Irving of paying less interest than promised in a marketing brochure . 
Larry Drury , attorney for the plaintiffs , valued the settlement at between $ 6 million and $ 8 million . 
Federal Reserve critics used to complain of `` stop and go '' monetary policies . 
But under Alan Greenspan that has changed . 
Indeed , his caution has become legendary within the government . 
He fusses endlessly over economic statistics , dissecting them in dozens of ways , probing for hours in search of potential problems . 
Such caution was evident after the recent Friday-the-13th stock market plunge . 
Mr. Greenspan 's decision to keep quiet also prompted a near-mutiny within the Fed 's ranks . 
And , while the mutinous Fed member has n't gone public , some Fed governors , most notably Vice Chairman Manuel Johnson , are known to have disagreed with the chairman 's decision to remain silent . 
Ironically , the anonymous official 's comments have earned some plaudits for Mr. Greenspan , who is mistakenly seen as the source . 
At a hearing last week , Democratic Sen. Chris Dodd of Connecticut told Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady that `` Chairman Greenspan 's '' announcement over the Oct. 13 weekend was a `` very important statement . '' 
The Fed chairman 's caution was apparent again on the Monday morning after the market 's plunge , when the central bank took only modest steps to aid the markets . 
Bush administration officials appear increasingly concerned that Mr. Greenspan is cautious to a fault . 
The administration 's concerns are understandable . 
The economy is showing signs of weakness , particularly among manufacturers . 
Exports , which played a key role in fueling growth over the last two years , seem to have stalled . 
In addition , the chairman has a wary eye aimed a year or two down the road . 
So far , Mr. Greenspan 's cautious approach to policy has served both him and the nation well . 
His hand on the monetary tiller seems one reason why the economy next month seems highly likely to begin an unprecedented eighth year of peacetime growth without a recession . 
`` We 've gotten through two stock market crashes , and we 've gone through an election without any major problems , '' says David Hale , an economist of Kemper Financial Services . 
But such caution is no guarantee against mistakes . 
The Fed 's reluctance to ease credit now could be laying the groundwork for a new recession , perhaps starting early next year . 
If that happens , Chairman Greenspan could well become an open target . 
Already , Congress is toying with legislation to curb the Fed 's independence . 
In an age of specialization , the federal judiciary is one of the last bastions of the generalist . 
A new specialty court was sought by patent experts , who believed that the generalists had botched too many important , multimillion-dollar cases . 
Now only three of the 12 judges -- Pauline Newman , Chief Judge Howard T. Markey , 68 , and Giles Rich , 85 -- have patent-law backgrounds . 
Three seats currently are vacant and three others are likely to be filled within a few years , so patent lawyers and research-based industries are making a new push for specialists to be added to the court . 
Several organizations , including the Industrial Biotechnical Association and the Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association , have asked the White House and Justice Department to name candidates with both patent and scientific backgrounds . 
Their effort has received a lukewarm response from the Justice Department . 
The Justice Department 's view is shared by other lawyers and at least one member of the court , Judge H. Robert Mayer , a former civil litigator who served at the claims court trial level before he was appointed to the Federal Circuit two years ago . 
These rate indications are n't directly comparable 
Posted yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30 days . 
Only a few months ago , the 124-year-old securities firm seemed to be on the verge of a meltdown , racked by internal squabbles and defections . 
Its relationship with parent General Electric Co. had been frayed since a big Kidder insider-trading scandal two years ago . 
Now , the firm says it 's at a turning point . 
By the end of this year , 63-year-old Chairman Silas Cathcart -- the former chairman of Illinois Tool Works who was derided as a `` tool-and-die man '' when GE brought him in to clean up Kidder in 1987 -- retires to his Lake Forest , Ill. , home , possibly to build a shopping mall on some land he owns . 
And that means 42-year-old Michael Carpenter , president and chief executive since January , will for the first time take complete control of Kidder and try to make good on some grandiose plans . 
Wall Street is understandably skeptical . 
Through the first nine months of the year , Kidder ranks a distant 10th among underwriters of U.S. stocks and bonds , with a 2.8 % market share , up slightly from 2.5 % in the year-earlier period , according to Securities Data Co . 
In 1988 , Kidder eked out a $ 46 million profit , mainly because of severe cost cutting . 
In fact , Kidder is a minor player in just about every business it does except computer-driven program trading 
Mr. Carpenter , a former consulting-firm executive who has a love for `` task forces , '' says he has done a `` complete rethink '' of Kidder in recent months . 
There have been a dizzying parade of studies of the firm 's operations . 
More than 20 new managing directors and senior vice presidents have been hired since January . 
Mr. Carpenter says that when he assumes full control , Kidder will finally tap the resources of GE . 
Yet , says Mr. Carpenter , `` We 've really started to exploit the synergy between GE Capital and Kidder Peabody . '' 
`` We 've had a good relationship with GE , which is the first time you could say that -- uh , let me withdraw that . 
A month ago , the firm started serving dinner at about 7:30 each night 
Everywhere , Kidder stresses the `` always working '' theme . 
The firm 's new head of mergers and acquisitions under Mr. Newquist , B.J. Megargel , talks of the opportunity to `` rebuild a franchise '' at Kidder . 
`` The Kidder name is one of only six or seven that every CEO recognizes as a viable alternative '' when considering a merger deal , he says . 
With investment banking as Kidder 's `` lead business , '' where do Kidder 's 42-branch brokerage network and its 1,400 brokers fit in ? 
Mr. Carpenter this month sold off Kidder 's eight brokerage offices in Florida and Puerto Rico to Merrill Lynch & Co. , refueling speculation that Kidder is getting out of the brokerage business entirely . 
Mr. Carpenter denies the speculation . 
To answer the brokerage question , Kidder , in typical fashion , completed a task-force study . 
As part of the upscale push , Kidder is putting brokers through a 20-week training course , turning them into `` investment counselors '' with knowledge of corporate finance . 
Mr. Cathcart says he has had `` a lot of fun '' at Kidder , adding the crack about his being a `` tool-and-die man '' never bothered him . 
Smiling broadly when he talks about Mr. Carpenter , Mr. Cathcart says the new Kidder chief is `` going to be recognized shortly as one of the real leaders in the investment-banking business . '' 
However , workers ca n't break ground until legal maneuvers to block the complex are resolved , moves which caused the signing to remain questionable up to the last moment . 
As previously reported , a member of the Philippines ' House of Representatives has sued to stop the plant . 
The legislator , Enrique Garcia , had actively backed the plant , but at the original site in his constituency northwest of Manila . 
However , at a news conference Thursday , Mrs. Aquino backed the project and said her government was attempting to soothe the feelings of residents at the original site , adjacent to the government 's major petroleum refinery in Bataan province . 
However , Mr. Lee said that USI Far East is confident other investors will take up the slack . 
El Paso owns and operates a petroleum refinery . 
THE YALE POLITICAL UNION does n't pay an honorarium to speakers . 
President Bush insists it would be a great tool for curbing the budget deficit and slicing the lard out of government programs . 
Not so fast , says Rep. Mickey Edwards of Oklahoma , a fellow Republican . 
President Bush badly wants a line-item veto and has long called for a law giving it to the president . 
Now the White House is declaring that he might not rely on Congress -- which has n't shown any willingness to surrender such authority -- to pass the line-item veto law he seeks . 
Although that may sound like an arcane maneuver of little interest outside Washington , it would set off a political earthquake . 
`` The ramifications are enormous , '' says Rep. Don Edwards , a California Democrat who is a senior member of the House Judiciary Committee . 
White House aides know it 's a step that ca n't be taken lightly -- and for that reason , the president may back down from launching a test case this year . 
Some senior advisers argue that with further fights over a capital-gains tax cut and a budget-reduction bill looming , Mr. Bush already has enough pending confrontations with Congress . 
The issue arose last week when Vice President Dan Quayle told an audience in Chicago that Mr. Bush was looking for a test case . 
Mr. Bush , former President Reagan and a host of conservative activists have been arguing that a line-item veto would go a long way in restoring discipline to the budget process . 
They maintain that a president needs the ability to surgically remove pork-barrel spending projects that are attached to big omnibus spending bills . 
Conservatives note that 43 governors have the line-item veto to use on state budgets . 
There 's little doubt that such a move would be immediately challenged in court -- and that it would quickly make its way to the Supreme Court to be ultimately resolved . 
Rep. Edwards , the California Democrat , is one who pledges that he would immediately challenge Mr. Bush in the courts , arguing a line-item veto would expand a president 's powers far beyond anything the framers of the Constitution had in mind . 
`` It puts this president in the legislative business , '' he declares . 
He notes that , as a lawmaker from the San Francisco area , he fights each year to preserve federal funds for the Bay Area Rapid Transit system . 
But there may be another problem with the device : Despite all the political angst it would cause , it might n't be effective in cutting the deficit . 
Big chunks of the government budget , like the entitlement programs of Social Security and Medicare , would n't be affected . 
Still , proponents contend that the veto would have what Mr. Glazier calls an important `` chilling effect '' on all manner of appropriations bills . 
Whatever the outcome of a test case , President Bush would have to move cautiously becase the very attempt would `` antagonize not just Democrats but Republicans , '' says Louis Fisher , a scholar at the Congressional Research Service who specializes in executive-legislative relations . 
Indeed , although a majority of Republican lawmakers favor a line-item veto , some , ranging from liberal Oregon Sen. Mark Hatfield to conservative Rep. Edwards are opposed . 
Rep. Edwards voices the traditional conservative view that it 's a mistake to put too much power in the hands of a single person . 
This has n't been Kellogg Co. 's year . 
The oat-bran craze has cost the world 's largest cereal maker market share . 
Analysts say much of Kellogg 's erosion has been in such core brands as Corn Flakes , Rice Krispies and Frosted Flakes , which represent nearly one-third of its sales volume . 
`` Cheerios and Honey Nut Cheerios have eaten away sales normally going to Kellogg 's corn-based lines simply because they are made of oats , '' says Merrill Lynch food analyst William Maguire . 
Another analyst , John C. Maxwell Jr. of Wheat , First Securities in Richmond , Va. , recently went to a `` sell '' recommendation on Kellogg stock , which closed Friday at $ 71.75 , down 75 cents , in New York Stock Exchange composite trading . 
`` Kellogg 's main problem is life style . 
People are reading the boxes and deciding they want something that 's ` healthy ' for you -- oats , bran . '' 
In announcing the plant delay , Kellogg Chairman William E. LaMothe said , `` Cereal volume growth in the U.S. has not met our expectations for 1989 . '' 
Kellogg indicated that it has room to grow without adding facilities . 
General Mills , meanwhile , finds itself constrained from boosting sales further because its plants are operating at capacity . 
A company spokesman said it was `` possible , but highly unlikely , '' that the plant might never be built . 
But in recent weeks , construction-industry sources reported that early preparation work was slowing at the 185-acre site . 
Subcontractors said they were told that equipment orders would be delayed . 
Last Friday 's announcement was the first official word that the project was in trouble and that the company 's plans for a surge in market share may have been overly optimistic . 
Although he called current market conditions `` highly competitive , '' Mr. LaMothe , Kellogg 's chairman and chief executive officer , forecast an earnings increase for the full year . 
As expected , Kellogg reported lower third-quarter earnings . 
Net fell 16 % to $ 123.1 million , or $ 1.02 a share , from $ 145.7 million , or $ 1.18 a share . 
PARKER HANNIFIN Corp. , which is selling three automotive replacement parts divisions , said it will retain its Automotive Connectors and Cliff Impact divisions . 
Sun Microsystems Inc. -- $ 125 million of 6 3\/8 % convertible subordinated debentures due Oct. 15 , 1999 , priced at 84.90 to yield 7.51 % . 
The debentures are convertible into common stock at $ 25 a share , representing a 24 % conversion premium over Thursday 's closing price . 
The issue , which is puttable back to the company in 1999 , was priced at a spread of 110 basis points above the Treasury 's 10-year note . 
QUANTUM CHEMICAL Corp. 's plant in Morris , Ill. , is expected to resume production in early 1990 . 
The deficit was 466 billion lire in August . 
For the first nine months , the trade deficit was 14.933 trillion lire , compared with 10.485 trillion lire in the year-earlier period . 
Imports rose 11 % to 18.443 trillion lire in September from a year earlier , while exports rose 17 % to 16.436 trillion lire . 
The state-owned industrial holding company Instituto Nacional de Industria and the Bank of Spain jointly hold a 13.94 % stake in Banco Exterior . 
The government directly owns 51.4 % and Factorex , a financial services company , holds 8.42 % . 
Some analysts are concerned , however , that Banco Exterior may have waited too long to diversify from its traditional export-related activities . 
Instead , they are working to transform Banco Exterior into an efficient bank by the end of 1992 . 
`` We 've got a lot to do , '' he acknowledged . 
In Mr. Luzon 's first year , the bank eliminated 800 jobs . 
The bank is now aggressively marketing retail services at its domestic branches . 
Expansion plans also include acquisitions in growing foreign markets . 
Banco Exterior was one of the last banks to create a brokerage house before the four Spanish stock exchanges underwent sweeping changes in July . 
The move is consistent with a trend for corporate legal staffs to do more work in-house , instead of farming it out to law firms . 
Mr. Pearce set up GM 's first in-house litigation group in May with four lawyers , all former assistant U.S. attorneys with extensive trial experience . 
Mr. Pearce has also encouraged his staff to work more closely with GM 's technical staffs to help prevent future litigation . 
That 's a finding of a new study of the Justice Department by researchers at Syracuse University . 
The Justice Department rejected the implication that its prosecutors are currently more willing to plea bargain . 
`` Our felony caseloads have been consistent for 20 years , '' with about 15 % of all prosecutions going to trial , a department spokeswoman said . 
In 1980 , the study says , prosecutors surveyed filed charges against 25 defendants for each 100,000 people aged 18 years and older . 
Another finding from the study : Prosecutors set significantly different priorities . 
The Manhattan U.S. attorney 's office stressed criminal cases from 1980 to 1987 , averaging 43 for every 100,000 adults . But the New Jersey U.S. attorney averaged 16 . 
Mrs. Marcos 's attorneys asked federal Judge John F. Keenan to give them access to all U.S. documents about her alleged abduction . 
The office also said Mrs. Marcos and her husband were n't brought to the U.S. against their will after Mr. Marcos was ousted as president . 
He made numerous trips to the U.S. in the early 1980s , but was n't arrested until 1987 when he showed up as a guest of then-Vice President George Bush at a government function . 
The appeals court , however , said the judge did n't adequately consider whether the delay would actually hurt the chances of a fair trial . 
PRO BONO VOLUNTARISM : In an effort to stave off a plan that would require all lawyers in New York state to provide twenty hours of free legal aid a year , the state bar recommended an alternative program to increase voluntary participation in pro bono programs . 
The state bar association 's policy making body , the House of Delegate , voted Saturday to ask Chief Judge Sol Wachtler to give the bar 's voluntary program three years to prove its effectiveness before considering mandatory pro bono . 
DALLAS AND HOUSTON law firms merge : Jackson & Walker , a 130-lawyer firm in Dallas and Datson & Scofield , a 70-lawyer firm in Houston said they have agreed in principle to merge . 
Piggybacking on government assertions that General Electric Co. may have covered up fraudulent billings to the Pentagon , two shareholders have filed a civil racketeering suit against the company . 
The suit was filed by plaintiffs ' securities lawyer Richard D. Greenfield in U.S. District Court in Philadelphia . 
The trial begins today in federal court in Philadelphia . 
GE , which vehemently denies the government 's allegations , denounced Mr. Greenfield 's suit . 
`` It is a cheap-shot suit -- procedurally defective and thoroughly fallacious -- which was hurriedly filed by a contingency-fee lawyer as a result of newspaper reports , '' said a GE spokeswoman . 
Ford Motor Co. and Chrysler Corp. representatives criticized Mr. Tonkin 's plan as unworkable . 
The individuals said Gulf Power and federal prosecutors are considering a settlement under which the company would plead guilty to two felony charges and pay fines totaling between $ 500,000 and $ 1.5 million . 
Under one count , Gulf Power would plead guilty to conspiring to violate the Utility Holding Company Act . 
The guilty pleas would be made solely by Gulf Power , the individuals said . 
A spokesman for Southern Co. would say only that discussions are continuing between Gulf Power and federal prosecutors . 
`` We have no further developments to report , '' he said . 
Morever , Mr. Addison has said Southern Co. and its units do n't condone illegal political contributions . 
Witnesses have said the grand jury has asked numerous questions about Jacob F. `` Jake '' Horton , the senior vice president of Gulf Power who died in the plane crash in April . 
On the morning of the crash , he had been put on notice that an audit committee was recommending his dismissal because of invoicing irregularities in a company audit . 
However , about 120 employees will be affected by the agreement . 
First Tennessee , assisted by IBM , said it will attempt to place the employees within the company , IBM or other companies in Memphis . 
The statement was the U.S. government 's first acknowledgement of what other groups , such as the International Monetary Fund , have been predicting for months . 
The Treasury 's report , which is required annually by a provision of the 1988 trade act , again took South Korea to task for its exchange-rate policies . 
The Treasury expressed pleasure , however , with the government of Taiwan , which was cited for exchange-rate manipulation in last year 's report . 
The next time you hear a Member of Congress moan about the deficit , consider what Congress did Friday . 
For construction in West Virginia , Mr. Bush requested $ 4.5 million ; Congress gave Senator Byrd 's state $ 21.5 million . 
For construction in West Virginia , Mr. Bush requested $ 4.5 million ; Congress gave Senator Byrd 's state $ 21.5 million . Senator Byrd is chairman of the Appropriations Committee . 
For Iowa , a $ 1.8 million request became $ 12 million for Senator Grassley , ranking minority member of a military construction subcommittee . For construction in West Virginia , Mr. Bush requested $ 4.5 million ; Congress gave Senator Byrd 's state $ 21.5 million . Senator Byrd is chairman of the Appropriations Committee . 
For Iowa , a $ 1.8 million request became $ 12 million for Senator Grassley , ranking minority member of a military construction subcommittee . Rep. Jamie Whitten of Mississippi and chairman of House Appropriations turned a $ 20 million Bush request for his state into a $ 49.7 million bequest . For construction in West Virginia , Mr. Bush requested $ 4.5 million ; Congress gave Senator Byrd 's state $ 21.5 million . Senator Byrd is chairman of the Appropriations Committee . 
Senator Sasser of Tennessee is chairman of the Appropriations subcommittee on military construction ; Mr. Bush 's $ 87 million request for Tennessee increased to $ 109 million . 
Tell us about spending restraint . 
Tell us about the HUD scandals . 
The agreement was announced by Costa Rican President Oscar Arias Friday , as President Bush and other leaders from the Western Hemisphere gathered in the Central American nation for a celebration of democracy . 
Under the plan , Costa Rica will buy back roughly 60 % of its bank debt outstanding at a deeply discounted price , according to officials involved in the agreement . 
No non-competitive tenders will be accepted . 
The 13-week and 27-week bills will be issued tomorrow rather than Thursday , Nov. 2 , as originally planned . 
The Treasury said it wo n't be able to honor reinvestment requests from holders of bills maturing Nov. 2 held in the Treasury 's book-entry system . 
Recently , the boards of both the parent company and the thrift also voted to suspend dividends on preferred shares of both companies and convert all preferred into common shares . 
In the second quarter , American Pioneer reported a loss of $ 7.3 million , compared with net income of $ 1.1 million a year earlier . 
Several other reports come before Friday 's jobs data , including : the September leading indicators index , new-home sales and October agricultural prices reports due out tomorrow ; the October purchasing managers ' index and September construction spending and manufacturers ' orders on Wednesday ; and October chain-store sales on Thursday . 
Mr. Englund added that next month 's data is n't likely to be much better , because it will be distorted by San Francisco 's earthquake . 
Wednesday 's report from the purchasing agents will be watched to see if the index maintains a level below 50 % , as it has for the past couple of months . 
Economists said greatly increased consumer optimism , a larger money supply and higher stock prices helped lift the index . 
Data Resources ' Mr. Wyss added that he will be keeping a closer eye than ususal on October chain-store sales . 
But Mr. Wyss said he will watch the numbers to get an inkling of whether consumers ' general buying habits may slack off as much as their auto-buying apparently has . 
Seasonal factors are also expected to have taken their toll on September new-home sales , which are believed to have fallen sharply from August 's 755,000 units . 
September orders for machine tools rebounded from the summer doldrums , but remained 7.7 % below year-earlier levels , according to figures from NMTBA -- the Association for Manufacturing Technology . 
`` Overall demand still is very respectable , '' says Christopher C. Cole , group vice president at Cincinnati Milacron Inc. , the nation 's largest machine tool producer . 
`` September was one of the biggest order months in our history , '' says James R. Roberts , vice president , world-wide sales and marketing , for Giddings & Lewis Inc. , Fond du Lac , Wis . 
At a recent meeting of manufacturing executives , `` everybody I talked with was very positive , '' he says . 
But sales of North American-made 1990-model cars are running at an annual rate of only six million , down from 7.1 million a year earlier . And truck sales also are off more than 20 % . 
Machine tool executives are hopeful , however , that recent developments in Eastern Europe will expand markets for U.S.-made machine tools in that region . 
However , there 's a continuing dispute between machine tool makers and the Defense Department over whether sophisticated U.S. machine tools would increase the Soviet Union 's military might . 
Orders last month for metal-forming presses and other machinery to form metal with pressure surged to $ 110.1 million , a 78 % rise from $ 61.7 million a year earlier and a 55 % gain from $ 70.9 million in August . 
Machine tool shipments last month were $ 281.2 million , a 24 % rise from a year earlier and a 25 % increase from August . 
U.S. producers had a $ 2.15 billion backlog of unfilled orders at the end of September . 
In Bombay stock market circles , the buzzword is `` mega . '' 
`` When they talk mega-issues , they 're truly talking mega , '' says S.A. Dave , chairman of the Securities and Exchange Board of India . 
But the mega-issues are raising megaquestions about the rapidly evolving Indian capital market . 
Moreover , in the relatively unregulated Indian stock markets , investors frequently do n't know what they are getting when they subscribe to an issue . 
A prospectus in India does n't always tell a potential investor much . 
Some analysts are concerned that the mega-issues , in such an unregulated environment , could lead to a mega-crash . 
`` The rate of failures will be much more than the rate of successes in the mega-projects , '' says G.S. Patel , a former chairman of the giant , government-run mutual fund , the Unit Trust of India . 
The $ 6 billion that some 40 companies are looking to raise in the year ending March 31 compares with only $ 2.7 billion raised on the capital market in the previous fiscal year . 
And it is n't the only giant issue : together , the top four issues will raise $ 1.3 billion . 
When Mr. Gandhi came to power , he ushered in new rules for business . 
India 's overregulated businessmen had to be persuaded , but they have started to think big . 
Some of the projects being funded by the new issues are the first fruits of Mr. Gandhi 's policy , and they require more capital than the smaller industrial units built in the past . 
The second factor spurring mega-issues is political . 
Mr. Gandhi has called general elections for November , and many businessmen fear that he and his Congress -LRB- I -RRB- Party will lose . 
The buoyant Bombay rumor mill also says that some of the money raised in the current spate of issues will be used as campaign donations before the elections . 
So far , the mega-issues are a hit with investors . 
Earlier this year , Tata Iron & Steel Co. 's offer of $ 355 million of convertible debentures was oversubscribed . 
Earlier this year , Tata Iron & Steel Co. 's offer of $ 355 million of convertible debentures was oversubscribed . Essar Gujarat Ltd. , a marine construction company , had similar success with a slightly smaller issue . 
`` I do n't think it will lead to any chaos in the secondary market , '' says Mr. Patel , `` only a sagging tendency . '' 
In the past , the government controlled the markets indirectly , through its tight grip on industry itself . 
But now , with large amounts being raised from investors , the government 's dawdling on regulation and disclosure requirements has a more dangerous aspect . 
`` Mega or non-mega , we feel the prospectus standards need to be considerably improved , '' he says . 
`` Disclosures are very poor in India . '' 
He says the big questions -- `` Do you really need this much money to put up these investments 
He says the big questions -- `` Do you really need this much money to put up these investments ? Have you told investors what is happening in your sector 
The engineering company was acquired in a takeover earlier this year by the giant Reliance textile group . 
Although Larsen & Toubro had n't raised money from the public in 38 years , its new owners frequently raise funds on the local market . 
Larsen & Toubro , for example , says it 's raising $ 570 million to use as supplier credit on large engineering jobs . 
`` Someone must monitor where the funds are deployed , '' says Mr. Dave . 
Mr. Patel agrees : `` There is no proper monitoring and screening of the use of these funds . 
Because of the large amounts of money being raised , the loose disclosure requirements and the casual monitoring of how the money is used , some analysts fear that there could be a few mega-crashes , which could hurt market confidence far more than the small bankruptcies that followed the boom of 1986 . 
The government insists that such a possibility is low . 
Finnair and SAS said they plan to swap stakes in each other . 
Officials hinted , however , that SAS would take a stake of at least 6 % in Finnair , valued at about $ 40 million at current market prices . 
GM confirmed Friday that it received permission late Thursday from U.S. antitrust regulators to increase its Jaguar holdings past the $ 15 million level . 
In late trading Friday , Jaguar shares bucked the downward tide in London 's stock market and rose five pence to 725 pence -LRB- $ 11.44 -RRB- . 
Trading volume was a moderately heavy 3.1 million shares . 
British government restrictions prevent any single shareholder from going beyond 15 % before the end of 1990 without government permission . 
With the golden share as protection , Jaguar officials have rebuffed Ford 's overtures , and moved instead to forge an alliance with GM . 
Ford , on the other hand , has said it 's willing to bid for all of Jaguar , despite the objections of Jaguar chairman Sir John Egan . 
Individuals close to the situation believe Ford officials will seek a meeting this week with Sir John to outline their proposal for a full bid . 
Jaguar and GM hope to win Jaguar shareholders approval for the accord partly by structuring it in a way that would n't preclude a full Ford bid once the golden share expires . 
`` There 's either a minority -LCB- stake -RCB- package capable of getting Jaguar shareholder approval or there is n't , '' said one knowledgeable individual . `` 
Union sentiment also could influence shareholder reaction to a Jaguar-GM accord . 
GM 's U.K. unit holds crucial talks today with union officials about its consideration of an Ellesmere Port site for its first major engine plant in Britain . 
ABBIE : `` I 'm OK , Jack . 
ABBIE -LRB- cont'd. -RRB- : `` I 'll always be with you , Jack . 
Of course that was n't the actual conversation the late anti-war activist , protest leader and founder of the Yippies ever had with his brother . 
The segment is soon to be broadcast on the CBS News series `` Saturday Night With Connie Chung , '' thus further blurring the distinction between fiction and reality in TV news . 
Abbie Hoffman in this case is to be played by Hollywood actor Paul Lieber , who is n't new to the character . 
Television news , of course , has always been part show-biz . 
Since its premiere Sept. 16 , the show on which Ms. Chung appears has used an actor to portray the Rev. Vernon Johns , a civil-rights leader , and one to play a teenage drug dealer . 
It has depicted the bombing of Pan Am flight 103 over the Scottish town of Lockerbie . 
On Oct. 21 , it did a rendition of the kidnapping and imprisonment of Associated Press correspondent Terry Anderson , who was abducted in March 1985 and is believed to be held in Lebanon . 
ABC News has similarly branched out into entertainment gimmickry . 
`` Prime Time Live , '' a new show this season featuring Sam Donaldson and Diane Sawyer , has a studio audience that applauds and that one night -LRB- to the embarrassment of the network -RRB- waved at the camera like the crowd on `` Let 's Make a Deal . '' 
-LRB- ABC stops short of using an `` applause '' sign and a comic to warm up the audience . 
News programs , particularly if they score well in the ratings , appeal to the networks ' cost-conscious corporate parents because they are so much less expensive to produce than an entertainment show is -- somewhere between $ 400,000 and $ 500,000 for a one-hour program . 
Re-enactments have been used successfully for several seasons on such syndicated `` tabloid TV '' shows as `` A Current Affair , '' which is produced by the Fox Broadcasting Co. unit of Rupert Murdoch 's News Corp . 
Nowhere have eyes been opened wider than at CBS News . 
The network deals a lot with unknowns , including Scott Wentworth , who portrayed Mr. Anderson , and Bill Alton as Father Jenco , but the network has some big names to contend with , too . 
James Earl Jones is cast to play the Rev. Mr. Johns . 
CBS News , which as recently as two years ago fired hundreds of its employees in budget cutbacks , now hires featured actors beginning at $ 2,700 a week . 
CBS News is also re-enacting the 1979 Three Mile Island nuclear accident in Middletown , Pa. , with something less than a cast of thousands . 
It is combing the town of 10,000 for about 200 extras . 
`` There was a roll of laughter through the stands , '' says Joe Sukle , the editor of the weekly Press and Journal in Middletown . 
`` They 're filming right now at the bank down the street , and they want shots of people getting out of cars and kids on skateboards . 
`` No way . 
Though a re-enactment may have the flavor , Hollywood on the Hudson it is n't . 
Re-creating events has , in general , upset news traditionalists , including former CBS News President Richard S. Salant and former NBC News President Reuven Frank , former CBS News anchorman Walter Cronkite and the new dean of the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism , Joan Konner . 
Says she : `` Once you add dramatizations , it 's no longer news , it 's drama , and that has no place on a network news broadcast ... . 
Criticism of the Abbie Hoffman segment is particularly scathing among people who knew and loved the man . 
`` This is dangerous and misrepresents Abbie 's life , '' says Ms. Lawrenson , who has had an advance look at the 36-page script . 
Mrs. Hoffman says that dramatization `` makes the truth flexible . 
The executive producer of `` Saturday Night With Connie Chung , '' Andrew Lack , declines to discuss re-creactions as a practice or his show , in particular . 
One person close to the process says it would not be in the best interest of CBS News to comment on a `` work in progress , '' such as the Hoffman re-creation , but says CBS News is `` aware '' of the concerns of Ms. Lawrenson and Mr. Hoffman 's former wife . 
Mr. Lieber , the actor who plays Mr. Hoffman , says he was concerned at first that the script would `` misrepresent an astute political mind , one that I admired , '' but that his concerns were allayed . 
Last year , Dentsu started HDM , a joint network with U.S. ad agency Young & Rubicam and Eurocom of France . 
A few months ago , Dentsu acquired 69 % of Australian agency Fortune Communication Holdings Ltd. for 5.9 million Australian dollars -LRB- US$ 4.6 million -RRB- . 
What is driving Dentsu 's international expansion largely is the need to keep up with its Japanese clients as they grow in the U.S. and Europe . 
`` If we do n't do something ... we wo n't be able to catch up with demand , '' says a Dentsu spokesman . 
Last year , Dentsu 's foreign business accounted for less than 10 % of total billings , but the company is aiming at 20 % in the near future . 
Though Dentsu says it has no concrete acquisition plans or deadlines , it is laying the groundwork for international growth . 
For the year ended March 31 , Dentsu sales rose 19 % to $ 8.9 billion from $ 7.5 billion , and net income jumped 59 % to $ 102 million from $ 64 million . 
But success overseas in unfamiliar markets could be trickier than for other industries such as manufacturers . 
But Japanese agencies are cautious about expanding abroad because client relationships are different . 
The show , one of five new NBC series , is the second casualty of the three networks so far this fall . 
Thereafter , the rate will be renegotiated . 
Mr. Vaux said the share issue is part of a strategy to strengthen Labatt 's balance sheet in anticipation of acquisitions to be made during the next 12 to 18 months . 
Despite the inevitable comparison with Compaq , however , Texas Instruments ' new notebook wo n't be a direct competitor . 
The introductions also mark Texas Instruments ' plunge back into a technology it has all but ignored for the past several years . 
Although the Dallas-based computer giant introduced the first portable data terminal in 1971 -- a 38-pound monster -- and the world 's first microprocessor-based portable in 1976 , the only portable machines it has introduced since the first part of the decade have been `` dumb '' terminals with limited on-board processing ability . 
Now that is about to change , as Texas Instruments begins marketing two 14-pound laptop PCs with 20 megabyte and 40 megabyte hard drives . 
But the notebook , with the more advanced microprocessor and hard disk , is more innovative . 
Weighing 6.7 pounds with battery , the notebook measures 8.2 by 11.7 inches , has a 20-megabyte hard disk drive and boasts a backlit screen that is 22 % larger than Compaq 's . 
Its keyboard , according to industry consultants , is better than Compaq 's , but its battery life of two to three hours is shorter . 
Its keyboard , according to industry consultants , is better than Compaq 's , but its battery life of two to three hours is shorter . It does n't have an internal floppy disk drive , although a snap-on drive can be purchased separately . 
List prices on the heavier Texas Instrument laptops will be $ 4,999 for the TI Model 25 , with a 20 megabyte disk drive , and $ 5,599 for the 40-megabyte Model 45 . 
Under current rules , investors in Taiwan can buy overseas stocks only through the purchase of mutual funds issued by local and foreign investment trusts . 
A spokesman for Shearson said the brokerage service will be directed at individual investors who want to buy foreign and domestic stocks . 
The numbers show that `` we do n't have a monolithic economy , '' said Isaac Lagnado , council research director . 
But Mr. Lagnado predicted the regional trends would continue through Christmas . 
The council 's report is based on data the trade group buys from the U.S. Census Bureau . 
Mr. Lagnado said strength in employment appears to have the biggest impact on sales growth . 
El Paso , Austin and Fort Worth , the three strongest retail markets in the nation , are all located in Texas , where employment grew a relatively strong 2 % . 
The results reflect a reversal in the fortunes of the regions during the past two years . 
Mr. Lagnado said that although retailers probably wo n't ever recover sales lost because of the California quake and Hurricane Hugo , they could see some benefits later on . 
In May 1988 , an ammonium perchlorate plant in Henderson owned by an American Pacific Corp. unit was leveled by a series of explosions . 
When the plant was destroyed , `` I think everyone got concerned that the same thing would happen at our plant , '' a KerrMcGee spokeswoman said . 
Kerr-McGee said it has purchased 3,350 acres from the federal government in Clark County and plans to begin construction early next year . 
The new facility is expected to begin operations in early 1991 . 
Elected as directors were Mr. Hollander , Frederick Ezekiel , Frederick Ross , Arthur B. Crozier and Rose Pothier . 
Exact comparisons with the previous year were unavailable because of a change in the company 's fiscal calendar . 
Shiseido predicted that sales for the year ending next March 31 will be 318 billion yen , compared with 340.83 billion yen in the year ended Nov. 30 , 1988 . 
A total of 672 transactions were announced during the latest quarter , up 13 % from the year-earlier period 's 597 , Grimm said . 
In the first nine months , 1,977 transactions were announced , up 15 % from 1,716 in the year-earlier period . 
MEDICINE SHOPPE INTERNATIONAL Inc. declared a 3-for-2 stock split , and substantially boosted the dividend payout . 
The property claims service division of the American Insurance Services Group estimated insured losses from the earthquake at $ 960 million . 
Other insurance rates such as casualty insurance , which would cover liability claims , are n't likely to firm right away , says Alice Cornish , an industry analyst with Northington Research in Avon , Conn . 
Property reinsurance rates are likely to climb first , analysts and brokers believe . 
Insurers typically retain a small percentage of the risks they underwrite and pass on the rest of the losses . 
Insurers buy this insurance protection for themselves by giving up a portion of the premiums they collect on a policy to another firm -- a reinsurance company , which , in turn , accepts a portion of any losses resulting from this policy . 
But some large insurers , such as State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Co. , do n't purchase reinsurance , but fund their own program . 
A few years ago , State Farm , the nation 's largest home insurer , stopped buying reinsurance because no one carrier could provide all the coverage that it needed and the company found it cheaper to self-reinsure . 
In audio equipment , sales rose 13 % to 44.3 billion yen from 39.19 billion yen . 
The number of authorized common shares will remain at 100 million . 
Under the rights plan , holders will have one right for each common share held , with each right entitling the purchase of one common share for 100 Canadian dollars . 
The charges in the 12-count indictment , which stem from events that allegedly occurred in late 1984 and early 1985 , involve enrollment procedures of six students and the preparation of certain reports , Wilfred said . 
He asserts that some directors , who have joined forces with company founder James Patterson , have ties to Wendy 's , a competing hamburger chain . 
The threat came during a two-day celebration in Costa Rica to highlight Central America 's progress toward democracy in the region , attended by President Bush , Canadian Prime Minister Brian Mulroney and 14 other Western Hemisphere leaders . 
Mr. Ortega announced on Friday that he would end the cease-fire this week in response to the periodic Contra assaults against his army . 
Saturday , he amended his remarks to say that he would continue to abide by the cease-fire if the U.S. ends its financial support for the Contras . 
Not only did Mr. Ortega 's comments come in the midst of what was intended as a showcase for the region , it came as Nicaragua is under special international scrutiny in anticipation of its planned February elections . 
`` The administration should now state that if the -LCB- February -RCB- election is voided by the Sandinistas ... they should call for military aid , '' said former Assistant Secretary of State Elliott Abrams . 
Mr. Ortega 's threat to breach the cease-fire comes as U.S. officials were acknowledging that the Contras have at times violated it themselves . 
Mr. Baker 's assistant for inter-American affairs , Bernard Aronson , while maintaining that the Sandinistas had also broken the cease-fire , acknowledged : `` It 's never very clear who starts what . '' 
Administration officials traveling with President Bush in Costa Rica interpreted Mr. Ortega 's wavering as a sign that he is n't responding to the military attacks so much as he is searching for ways to strengthen his hand prior to the elections . 
Philadelphia-based Deb Shops said it saw little significance in Mr. Petrie selling his stock to Petrie Stores . 
Mr. Uhr said that Mr. Petrie or his company have been accumulating Deb Shops stock for several years , each time issuing a similar regulatory statement . 
Nikon said sales rose despite the adverse effect of Japan 's unpopular consumption tax , introduced in April . 
Total sales gained 20 % to 122.36 billion yen from 102.01 billion yen . 
Nikon forecast sales for the year ending March 31 will rise 9.6 % to 240 billion yen . 
A spokesman for Gulf Canada , which is controlled by Toronto 's Reichmann family , said the properties account for about 6 % of the company 's assets and produce about 5,000 barrels of oil and 35 million cubic feet of gas a day . 
NEC said first-half computer sales totaled 555.5 billion yen , up 11 % from 500.26 billion yen a year earlier . 
NEC said first-half computer sales totaled 555.5 billion yen , up 11 % from 500.26 billion yen a year earlier . Sales of electrical devices rose 13 % to 283.8 billion yen from 251.8 billion yen . 
NEC forecast sales for the year ending next March 31 of 2.74 trillion yen , an increase of 27 % from the previous fiscal year . 
Under the pact , Montedision will make a $ 37-a-share tender offer for Erbamont stock outstanding . 
The offer is based on several conditions , including obtaining financing . 
In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission , DPC Acquisition said it expects it will need about $ 215 million to buy the shares and pay related fees and expenses . 
In over-the-counter trading Friday , Jayark was quoted at 87.5 cents bid , down 15.625 cents . 
Sales in the six months ended Sept. 30 were up 4.5 % to 229.03 billion yen from 219.27 billion yen . 
Oils and fats also did well , posting a 5.3 % sales increase . 
Ajinomoto predicted sales in the current fiscal year ending next March 31 of 480 billion yen , compared with 460.05 billion yen in fiscal 1989 . 
Several longtime observers of the commodities industry think the fortunes of the Merc over the next decade will be determined to a large extent by how well its new natural gas futures contract does and how successful its new president is in raising the level of compliance by floor traders with exchange and Commodity Futures Trading Commission rules . 
Only three weeks earlier , the Merc had turned to one of its own executives , 40-year-old R. Patrick Thompson , to replace Rosemary T. McFadden as president . 
Ms. McFadden had been forced out in July in a bitter power struggle with Z. Lou Guttman , chairman and a longtime floor trader on the exchange . 
By contrast , the Comex in July imported a highly regarded outsider , Arnold F. Staloff , as its president . 
Mr. Thompson is n't bereft of experience with new products , however . 
`` Our members are eager to begin trading this contract , so we expect no difficulty in attracting locals to the natural gas pit , '' he said . 
In a recent interview , Mr. Thompson said the biggest problem facing all commodity exchanges was one of image . 
Earlier this year , the U.S. attorney indicted 45 floor traders and one clerk at the two big Chicago exchanges . 
Federal authorities in New York started investigating exchanges in May , though no indictments have been handed down there . 
So far they have issued scores of subpoenas , some of which went to members of the New York Merc . 
In a recent General Accounting Office study , the Merc was found to have been the most lax in enforcing exchange rules . 
The Merc received considerable criticism in 1987 when it was discovered that its compliance director , Kevin P. Conway , who then was responsible for policing the exchange 's busy oil and metal pits , `` was engaged in other personal business activities on Exchange time , '' including out-of-state trips , according to a New York Merc report prepared last year . 
`` We had a management breakdown in 1987 in terms of compliance , '' Mr. Thompson says . 
`` We recognized the problem and took care of it . '' 
For years the five New York exchanges have been talking about cooperating in various aspects of their business in order to improve the efficiency of their operations . 
Periodically , there has even been talk of mergers between one or more exchanges . 
Mr. Thompson believes the case for working together is stronger now than ever . 
`` The cost of competition has become extremely high , '' he says . 
`` We must find ways to save money for the futures commission merchants who do business on our exchanges . '' 
He thinks that progress in cooperation can be made in areas where no vested interests have built up . 
One of those areas is the development of a hand-held electronic device that would permit floor traders to enter trades as they make them . 
The GAO has recommended the creation of a system to record trade data so that an independent , verifiable audit trail can be established to prevent customer fraud . 
Another major electronics problem faces Mr. Thompson -- the creation of a 24-hour trading system that can be used outside normal trading hours . 
Mr. Thompson says his exchange is n't waiting for the results of the Chicago exchanges ' cooperation . 
Michael Frawley , metals trader for PaineWebber Inc. in New York , said there is good technical support between $ 1.10 and $ 1.12 a pound for December copper , which ended Friday at $ 1.1580 a pound , up 1.6 cents . 
But he said it wo n't climb further and he expects it to remain in a trading range between $ 1.10 and $ 1.25 . 
William O'Neill , research director for Elders Futures Inc. in New York , said for a rally to occur , there must be demand from the Far East . 
However , to resume the bull trend , according to Mr. O'Neill , copper would have to close over $ 1.19 . 
Friday 's strong price gains confirmed a turnaround in the precious metals markets , according to PaineWebber 's Mr. Frawley . 
He thought the moves in the metals last week were most influenced by the uncertainty in the equity and other financial markets . 
William O'Neill , research director for Elders Futures Inc. in New York , said the price action for all of last week is the best he has seen on a weekly basis in more than a year . 
He said traders should be on the lookout for how metals producers react to this rally . 
`` I expect to see some selling , but will they kill this one as they have every rally in the recent past '' by selling and locking in prices for their production ? 
In recent weeks , warm and dry weather has sped the Midwest harvest and that is permitting farmers to rebuild the stockpiles that were cut by the 1988 drought . 
If the weather allowed farmers to work in their fields over the weekend , many Midwest grain elevators will probably sell futures contracts today at the Chicago Board of Trade in order to hedge their weekend purchases from farmers . 
There may be some activity in soybean prices this week as investors try to get rid of the contract for November delivery . 
Lorne Slotnick , vice chairman of the Southern Ontario Newspaper Guild , the union representing the workers , said Thomson made significant concessions in the final round of talks . 
For three years , a healthy economy and the export-boosting effects of a weak dollar propelled sales and earnings of the big paper companies to record levels . 
But now the companies are getting into trouble because they undertook a record expansion program while they were raising prices sharply . 
Other analysts are nearly as pessimistic . 
Gary Palmero of Oppenheimer & Co. expects a 30 % decline in earnings between now and 1991 for `` commodity-oriented '' paper companies , which account for the majority of the industry . 
But they attribute much of the weakness to customer inventory reductions . 
Generally they maintain that , barring a recession and a further strengthening of the dollar against foreign currencies , the industry is n't headed for a prolonged slump . 
Oppenheimer 's Mr. Palmero , meanwhile , is steering clear of Gaylord Container , Stone Container and Federal Paper Board . 
Mr. Schneider is cool to Georgia Pacific and Abitibi-Price . 
The companies in question believe the analysts are too pessimistic . 
Great Northern Nekoosa said , `` The odds of the dire predictions about us being right are small . '' 
Stone Container Chairman Roger Stone said that , unlike for some other paper products , demand for Stone 's principal commodity , unbleached containerboard , remains strong . 
Gaylord Container said analysts are skeptical of it because it 's carrying a lot of debt . 
Federal Paper Board said , `` We 're not as exposed as the popular perception of us . '' 
Because the stock prices of some paper companies already reflect an expected profit slump , PaineWebber 's Mr. Ross says he thinks that next year the share prices of some companies may fall at most only 5 % to 10 % . 
Wall Street is n't avoiding everything connected with paper . 
The analysts say their gloomy forecasts have a flip side . 
Analysts agree that the price drop should especially benefit the two big tissue makers , Scott Paper and Kimberly-Clark . 
Shoney 's Inc. said it will report a write-off of $ 2.5 million , or seven cents a share , for its fourth quarter ended yesterday . 
In addition , the effective interest rate on the $ 410 million of total remaining bank debt after the restructuring is 10.66 % . 
The company has made payments of $ 175 million against the original $ 585 million of bank debt incurred in connection with the recapitalization . 
During the next decade , Mr. Kume said , Nissan plans to boost overseas vehicle production sufficiently to account for a majority of sales outside Japan . 
`` By the end of the 1990s , '' he said , `` we want to be producing roughly two vehicles overseas for every vehicle that we export from Japan . '' 
National Intergroup in the year-ago third quarter earned $ 22.5 million , or 97 cents a share , including a gain of $ 18 million from the sale of a steel tube company . 
Commercial banks and property\/casualty insurers , which together own about 36 % of all municipal bonds , have been dumping their securities for weeks . 
`` Every day we 're getting new bid lists '' from would-be sellers , one trader said . 
`` There is incredible negative psychology building in the market , '' said Donna Avedisian , a vice president at Merrill Lynch & Co . 
For an investor in the 28 % federal tax bracket , 7.9 % tax-free is the same as 10.38 % on a taxable investment . 
How quickly things change . 
This past summer , investors ' appetite for municipal bonds seemed insatiable . 
Bond market analysts say the institutional selling was triggered by several factors . 
Big banks such as Chemical Bank and Chase Manhattan , which have been taking heavy charges to expand their Third World loan-loss reserves , are n't looking for tax-exempt income . 
In recent weeks , traders said , Chemical has sold more than $ 1 billion of tax-free bonds . 
Insurance companies are rushing to sell before the end of the year , when some of their tax benefits associated with municipal bonds will be phased out . 
Fundamental factors are at work as well . 
Muni bond holders are worried about the impact of a slowing economy on tax revenue , at a time when many state and local governments already face budget deficits and huge spending needs . 
Mutual funds , for example , are said to be selling existing municipal bonds to raise cash to buy new issues . 
But traders said the market 's tone could pick up this week if New York City 's $ 787 million bond offering goes well . 
New York City bonds have been beaten down for three straight weeks . 
The sell-off in New York City bonds was triggered by concerns about the city 's financial health and political uncertainty in view of the impending mayoral election . 
`` The city has issued so much supply recently that some people are getting a little concerned . 
The Treasury 's benchmark 30-year bond ended at a price of 102 2\/32 , down nearly 5\/8 point from Thursday , or about $ 6.25 for each $ 1,000 face amount . 
The market also was hurt by rumors that Nippon Kangyo Kakumaru , a Japanese brokerage firm , was unloading some of the 30-year bonds it recently purchased . 
Dealers say the firm apparently has wanted to publicize its recent buying and subsequent selling of 30-year bonds by using Cantor Fitzgerald Securities Corp. as a broker . 
Many of the RJR securities , which had been trading near their 52-week lows earlier in the session , bounced back after the company 's announcement that it agreed to sell its Baby Ruth , Butterfinger and Pearson candy businesses to Nestle Foods , a unit of the Swiss-based food concern . 
Other RJR securities also closed higher . 
Most other junk bond issues finished a quarter-point lower on rumors that Campeau Corp. was filing for protection from creditors under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code . 
Medicare Part B pays 80 % of a beneficiary 's allowable doctor 's bills after an annual deductible of $ 75 . 
The Catastrophic Coverage Act would add a stop-loss provision next year to limit the maximum beneficiaries must pay for doctors . 
If the House prevails in its efforts to kill the catastrophic-care plan , the monthly Part B premium will be $ 29 next year . 
The Lockheed unit has 24,000 workers ; it expects to make the cuts through a combination of furloughs , attrition and retirements . 
Defense contractors `` can not continue to get contracts on that basis , '' said Howard Rubel , an analyst with C.J. Lawrence , Morgan Grenfell Inc. in New York . 
Separately , Innopac reported a fourth-quarter loss of about C$ 2.6 million , or 18 Canadian cents a share , reflecting inventory write-downs . 
The results made net income for the year ended Aug. 31 C$ 2.7 million , or 20 Canadian cents a share , down from C$ 9.7 million , or 70 Canadian cents a share last year . 
Martin Fabi , Innopac 's president and chief executive , said Innopac viewed Mr. Pattison 's decision to seek control as a `` very positive '' move . 
`` I 'm happy that he feels positively about our company , '' he said . 
Among other things , Innopac is involved in recycling polystyrene foam products that are often used by fast food chains , such as McDonald 's Corp. , for food packaging . 
PROGRAM TRADING is being curbed by more securities firms , but big institutional investors are expected to continue the practice , further roiling the stock market . 
Personal spending rose 0.2 % in September , the smallest gain in a year . 
RJR Nabisco agreed to sell three candy businesses to Nestle for $ 370 million . 
GM and Ford are expected to go head to head in the markets to buy up rival 15 % stakes in Jaguar . 
Americans did n't dislike metrics ; they simply ignored them . 
Scientists felt differently . 
Businessmen took their cue from the engineers . 
When Congress finally passed the Metric Conversion Act in 1975 , industry was far ahead . 
Because the law made compliance voluntary , it inspired little more than jokes . 
General Motors , for example , uses metric terms for its automobile bodies and power trains . -LRB- In auto advertising , however , items such as wheelbases are still described in inches . -RRB- 
Farm-machine makers such as Caterpillar and Deere work in the metric system . 
The Pentagon has led the charge , particularly as military alliances spread world-wide . 
Still , like the auto makers , when dealing with Mr. Everyman the Pentagon sticks to the tried and true . 
`` What we 've done in eight weeks shows we wo n't have enormous difficulties getting to the place we want to be , '' said Mr. Whittle . 
In California and New York , state officials have opposed Channel One . 
The Educational Network , as Mr. Whittle has named the three programs , has been offered to 1,290 school districts and Whittle continues to negotiate with 919 districts . 
Mr. Whittle said that so far , three of the six schools that carried the program in a five-week test last spring have subscribed to the program . 
`` The number of correct responses was 45 % on the test and school absences did n't change much , '' said Mr. Bruner . 
`` The pilot program was received well -LRB- by teachers and students -RRB- , but there was n't reason enough to sign up . 
Advertisers are showing interest . 
Last month , Whittle announced it had sold $ 150 million in advertising time on the network to national advertisers . 
Whittle is spending $ 150 million initially to launch the network . 
Now , stock prices seem to be in a general retreat . 
Since peaking at 2791.41 on Oct. 9 , the Dow Jones Industrial Average has lost 194.69 points , or 7 % , closing Friday at 2596.72 , down 17.01 . 
There are , of course , analysts who view the near-panic that briefly swept through investors on Oct. 13 and again on Oct. 24 as momentary lapses of good judgment that have only temporarily undermined a healthy stock market . 
The reaction to the UAL debacle `` is mindless , '' says John Connolly , chief market strategist at Dean Witter . 
`` UAL is a small deal as far as the overall market is concerned . 
He suggests , for example , that investors may have assumed that just because UAL could n't get financing , no leveraged buy-outs can get financing . 
`` There will still be deals , '' argues Mr. Connolly . 
`` There may not be as many and the buyers may not get away with some of the things they 've done in the past , but deals wo n't disappear . '' 
Even the volatility created by stock index arbitrage and other computer-driven trading strategies is n't entirely bad , in Mr. Connolly 's view . 
For the long-term investor who picks stocks carefully , the price volatility can provide welcome buying opportunities as short-term players scramble frantically to sell stocks in a matter of minutes . 
`` Who can make the better decision , the guy who has 10 seconds to decide what to do or the guy with all the time in the world ? '' he says . 
Kidder Peabody 's Mr. Jarrett also sees some benefits to the stock market 's recent drop . 
`` We 've run into a market that was beginning to run out of steam and get frothy , '' he says . 
The pop sobered up investors who had been getting a little too ebullient , says Mr. Jarrett . 
But he figures that at current levels the stock market is comfortably valued , even with the economy obviously slowing . 
`` Just because we 've got some realism back in the market does n't mean it 's going lower from here , '' he says . 
`` The bottom line is that it 's healthy to have this kind of sideways activity , especially after a 30 % gain in stock values over the past 12 months . '' 
Maybe , maybe not . 
Abby Joseph Cohen , a market strategist at Drexel Burnham Lambert , is n't nearly so sanguine about the market 's chances of surging to new highs anytime soon . 
Her view is that stock prices have three major props : merger and buy-out proposals , earnings and the economic outlook . 
`` Stocks are n't cheap anymore , there have been some judicial and legislative changes in the merger area and all of this changes the arithmetic of deals , '' she says . 
`` M&A is getting all the headlines right now , but these other things have been building up more gradually , '' she says . 
With all this , can stock prices hold their own ? 
`` The question is unanswerable at this point , '' she says . 
`` It depends on what happens . 
The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 17.01 points to 2596.72 in active trading . 
Volume on the New York Stock Exchange totaled 170,330,000 shares . 
Declining issues on the Big Board were far ahead of gainers , 1,108 to 416 . 
Oil stocks escaped the brunt of Friday 's selling and several were able to post gains , including Chevron , which rose 5\/8 to 66 3\/8 in Big Board composite trading of 2.4 million shares . 
USX gained 1\/2 to 33 3\/8 on a report in Business Week magazine that investor Carl Icahn is said to have raised his stake in the oil and steel company to just about 15 % . 
Elsewhere in the oil sector , Exxon rallied 7\/8 to 45 3\/4 ; Amoco rose 1\/8 to 47 ; Texaco was unchanged at 51 3\/4 , and Atlantic Richfield fell 1 5\/8 to 99 1\/2 . 
The precious metals sector outgained other Dow Jones industry groups by a wide margin for the second consecutive session . 
Gold mining stocks traded on the American Stock Exchange also showed strength . 
Echo Bay Mines rose 5\/8 to 15 7\/8 
Compaq Computer , which had lost 8 5\/8 Thursday following a disappointing quarterly report , gained 5\/8 to 100 5\/8 . 
Compaq Computer , which had lost 8 5\/8 Thursday following a disappointing quarterly report , gained 5\/8 to 100 5\/8 . International Business Machines dropped 7\/8 to 99 7\/8 . 
Dividend-related trading swelled volume in Merrill Lynch , which closed unchanged at 28 3\/8 as 2.7 million shares changed hands . 
Erbamont advanced 1 1\/8 to 36 1\/2 on 1.9 million shares . 
Montedison , which owns about 72 % of the company 's common stock , agreed to buy the rest for $ 37 a share . 
Milton Roy jumped 2 to 18 3\/8 . 
For several months , officials at the Federal Aviation Administration and the National Transportation Safety Board have suspected that a metallurgical flaw in the disk led to a crack that ultimately caused the tail engine to break apart in flight . 
The safety board will begin four days of hearings on the accident tomorrow in Sioux City . 
Anthony Broderick , the FAA 's acting executive director for regulatory standards and compliance , said that recent tests of the failed engine disk indicate that a flaw -- known as `` hard alpha '' -- occurred in the titanium during its production almost 20 years ago . 
The FAA already has ordered that all 232 disks made by the old process be removed from the planes and subjected to an ultrasonic test in a water-submersion chamber . 
Such tests make the FAA confident that a Sioux City-type accident `` wo n't happen again , '' said Mr. Broderick . 
But he also pointed out that the recalls will have no impact on GE 's engine production . 
To compare temperatures over the past 10,000 years , researchers analyzed the changes in concentrations of two forms of oxygen . 
Analysis of ice from the Dunde ice cap , a glacial plateau in Tibet 17,000 feet above sea level , show that average temperatures were higher in 1937-87 than in any other 50-year period since before the last Ice Age , Mr. Thompson said . 
Instead , the Dunde ice-core record shows increasing temperatures from 1900 through the early 1950s , decreasing temperatures from the late 1950s through the mid-1970s , then higher temperatures again through last year . 
The result is that instead of the Pentagon 's proposed split of 60-40 between domestic and foreign bases , the reduced funding is distributed by a ratio of approximately 70-30 . 
House Appropriations Committee Chairman Jamie Whitten -LRB- D. , Miss . -RRB- helped secure $ 49.7 million for his state , or more than double the Pentagon 's budget . 
West Virginia , home of Senate Appropriations Committee Chairman Robert Byrd , would receive $ 21.5 million -- four times the military 's request . 
Tennessee and North Carolina , home states of the two Democratic chairmen of the House and Senate military construction subcommittees , receive $ 243.2 million , or 25 % above the Pentagon 's request . 
The swift passage of the bill , which cleared the Senate and House on simple voice votes last week , contrasts with the problems still facing a more cumbersome $ 66.8 billion measure funding housing , environmental , space and veterans programs . 
The House Democratic leadership could seek to waive these restrictions , but the underlying bill is already under attack for excesses elsewhere . 
For example , a House-Senate conference ostensibly increased the National Aeronautics and Space Administration budget for construction of facilities to nearly $ 592 million , or more than $ 200 million above what either chamber had previously approved . 
The bill 's managers face criticism , too , for the unusual number of conditions openly imposed on where funds will be spent . 
Conservatives , embarrassed by Republican influence-peddling scandals at the Department of Housing and Urban Development , have used the issue in an effort to shift blame onto a Democratic-controlled Congress . 
Within discretionary funds for community development grants , more than $ 3.7 million is allocated to six projects in Michigan , home state of a subcommittee chairman , Rep. Bob Traxler . 
The powerful Democrat had first wanted to add language relaxing environmental restrictions on two mills on the Hamakua coast that are threatening to close . 
Dennis Farney 's Oct. 13 page-one article `` River of Despair , '' about the poverty along the Mississippi , fanned childhood memories of when my parents were sharecroppers in southeastern Arkansas , only a few miles from the river . 
Although we were white , the same economic factors affected us as affects the black people Mr. Farney writes about . 
These are the families who used -- and sometime abused -- their sharecroppers , people who had no encouragement and little access to an education or training for a better life . 
Yet the evidence that we have not hit bottom is found in the fact that we are not yet helping ourselves . 
Because we refuse to face the tough answers , the questions continue as fodder for the commissions and committees , for the media and politicians . 
Does the Delta deserve government help in attracting industry when the majority of residents , black and white , do not realize racism alienates potential employers ? 
Should we focus on the region 's infant-mortality rate when the vocal right-wingers and the school boards , mayors and legislators prohibit schools from teaching the two ways -LRB- abstinence or contraceptives -RRB- of decreasing teen pregnancy ? 
I would like to issue a challenge to corporate America . 
The next time expansion plans are mentioned at the old company and somebody says , `` Aw heck , guys , nobody can do it like Japan or South Korea , '' I wish you would butt in and say , `` Hold it , fellas , why do n't we compare prices and use our own little Third World country . 
Your story is an insult to the citizens of the Mississippi Delta . 
Many of the problems you presented exist in every part of this country . 
Nobody should have to live in such poor conditions as in `` Sugar Ditch , '' but when you travel to Washington , Boston , Chicago or New York , the same problems exist . 
Management advised employees Friday that it was going to reduce employment in production operations of the group by 8 % , or 400 people . 
Mobil alluded to the work-force cuts last week when it took a $ 40 million charge as part of its third-quarter earnings and attributed it to a restructuring . 
During the coming months , layers of management will be peeled away and regional offices will become more autonomous . 
For greater efficiency , employees at those locations will be reorganized into teams responsible for managing the properties under their jurisdiction , Mobil said . 
In April , when many of them bought their CDs , six-month certificates were yielding more than 9 % ; investors willing to look could find double-digit yields at some banks and thrifts . 
But investors looking for alternatives are n't finding it easy . 
There are , however , some alternatives that income-oriented investors should consider , investment advisers say . 
A mix of CDs and other holdings may make the most sense . 
Investors with a heavy tax load should take out their calculators . 
For an investor paying tax at a 33 % rate , a seemingly puny 6 % yield on a one-year muni is equivalent to a taxable 9 % . 
Some of the more cautious CD holders might like `` pre-refunded '' municipals . 
Consider a `` laddered '' bond portfolio , with issues maturing in , say , 1992 , 1993 and 1994 , advises Malcolm A. Makin , a Westerly , R.I. , financial planner . 
Bond mutual funds offer diversification and are easy to buy and sell . 
But they will have disappointing returns or even losses if interest rates rise instead . 
Consider , for instance , two bond funds from Vanguard Group of Investment Cos. that were both yielding 8.6 % on a recent day . 
`` You get equity-like returns '' from bonds if you guess right on rates , says James E. Wilson , a Columbia , S.C. , planner . 
These insurance company contracts feature some of the same tax benefits and restrictions as non-deductible individual retirement accounts : Investment gains are compounded without tax consequences until money is withdrawn , but a 10 % penalty tax is imposed on withdrawals made before age 59 1\/2 . 
Aimed specifically at CD holders are so-called CD-type annuities , or certificates of annuity . 
The conventional wisdom is to go into money funds when rates are rising and shift out at times such as the present , when rates seem headed down . 
Try combining a money fund and an intermediate-term bond fund as a low-risk bet on falling rates , suggests Back Bay Advisors Inc. , a mutual fund unit of New England Insurance Co . 
In a telephone interview Friday , Dr. Toseland said the number of sudden , unexplained deaths of diabetics he had seen this year was 17 compared with just two in 1985 . 
With proper warning , diabetics can easily raise their blood sugar to safe levels by eating sugar or sugary food . 
However , he said officials conducting the study had n't been looking for signs of problems related to hypoglycemia unawareness . 
`` We do know there are slight differences in the way human and animal insulins drive down blood sugar , '' Dr. Sobel said . 
Reports of Dr. Toseland 's findings in the British press have triggered widespread concern among diabetics there . 
Lilly officials said they had seen reports of hypoglycemic unawareness among some patients making the shift from animal to human insulin , but did n't know if the problem had caused any deaths . 
Dr. Toseland said most of the British diabetics who died had been taking a human-based insulin made by Novo\/Nordisk , a Danish manufacturer . 
Last April , the new defense secretary , Richard Cheney , acknowledged that , `` given an ideal world , we 'd have a nice , neat , orderly process . 
We 'd do the strategy and then we 'd come around and do the budget . 
This city does n't work that way . '' 
This wo n't happen until strategists come down from their ivory tower and learn to work in the real world of limited budgets and uncertain futures . 
As it is , we identify national goals and the threats to these goals , we shape a strategy to counter these threats , we determine the forces needed to execute the strategy , before finally forging the budgets needed to build and maintain the forces . 
The graph on the left shows how this happens -LRB- see accompanying illustration -- WSJ Oct. 30 , 1989 -RRB- . 
Compare the past eight five-year plans with actual appropriations . 
Strategy , however , is about possibilities , not hopes and dreams . 
By ignoring costs , U.S. strategists abdicate their responsibility for hard decisions . 
That puts the real strategic decisions in the hands of others : bean counters , budgeteers , and pork-barrelers . 
Reform starts in the Pentagon . 
Strategists should consider the impact of budget uncertainties at the beginning of the planning process . 
This kind of contingency analysis is common in war planning and business planning . 
Two steps are necessary to translate this idea into action . 
Step 1 cleans up our books . 
That plan exceeded the numbers contained in his budget message by $ 45 billion . 
The 1990 plan also assumes inflation will decline to 1.7 % by 1994 . 
The graph on the right -LRB- which assumes a 4 % rate of inflation -RRB- , places these scenarios in the context of recent appropriations -LRB- see accompanying illustration -- WSJ Oct. 30 , 1989 -RRB- . 
Scenario 1 , known as the `` Constant Dollar Freeze , '' reimburses the Pentagon for inflation only -- it slopes upward at 4 % per year . 
Scenario 3 , the `` Current Dollar Freeze , '' has been the approximate position of the House of Representatives for about four years . 
It freezes the budget at its current level , and forces the Pentagon to eat the effects of inflation until 1994 . 
Scenario 2 extends the recent compromises between the House and the Senate ; it splits the difference between Scenarios 1 and 3 , by increasing the budget at 2 % per year . 
Finally , Scenario 4 reduces the budget by 2 % per year for the next five years -- a total reduction of $ 287 billion . 
The strategic planners in the Joint Chiefs of Staff would construct the most effective defense program for each scenario , maximizing strengths and minimizing weaknesses . 
If , for example , they choose to keep the B-2 Stealth bomber , they would have to sacrifice more and more other programs -- such as carrier battlegroups or army divisions -- as they moved toward lower budget levels . 
Anyway , ZBB 's procedures were so cumbersome that everyone involved was crushed under a burden of marginalia . 
A strategic review is fundamentally different . 
It might be feared that even thinking about lower budgets will hurt national security because the door will be opened to opportunistic budget cutting by an irresponsible Congress . 
But in the end , it must be rejected for logical as well as moral reasons . 
Strategy is not a game between the Pentagon and Congress ; it is the art of the possible in a world where constraints force us to choose between unpleasant or imperfect alternatives . 
While Wall Street 's tough times and lower U.S. interest rates continue to undermine the dollar , weakness in the pound and the yen is expected to offset those factors . 
`` By default , '' the dollar probably will be able to hold up pretty well in coming days , says Francoise Soares-Kemp , a foreign-exchange adviser at Credit Suisse . 
In late Friday afternoon New York trading , the dollar was at 1.8300 marks and 141.65 yen , off from late Thursday 's 1.8400 marks and 142.10 yen . 
The dollar began Friday on a firm note , gaining against all major currencies in Tokyo dealings and early European trading despite reports that the Bank of Japan was seen unloading dollars around 142.70 yen . 
With the stock market wobbly and dollar buyers discouraged by signs of U.S. economic weakness and the recent decline in U.S. interest rates that has diminished the attractiveness of dollar-denominated investments , traders say the dollar is still in a precarious position . 
Predictions for limited dollar losses are based largely on the pound 's weak state after Mr. Lawson 's resignation and the yen 's inability to strengthen substantially when there are dollar retreats . 
While the pound has attempted to stabilize , currency analysts say it is in critical condition . 
Although the Bank of England 's tight monetary policy has fueled worries that Britain 's slowing economy is headed for a recession , it is widely believed that Mr. Lawson 's willingness to prop up the pound with interest-rate increases helped stem pound selling in recent weeks . 
The pound likely will fall in coming days and may trade as low as 2.60 marks within the next year , says Nigel Rendell , an international economist at James Capel & Co. in London . 
But such an increase , he says , could be viewed by the market as `` too little too late . '' 
The dollar has a `` natural base of support '' around 140 yen because the Japanese currency has n't been purchased heavily in recent weeks , says Ms. Soares-Kemp of Credit Suisse . 
We are deeply disturbed that a recent editorial stated that the `` Americans With Disabilities Act of 1989 '' was `` crafted primarily by Democratic Senators Kennedy and Harkin '' with a premise `` based on the presumption that most Americans are hostile to the disabled ... . '' 
This legislation was not drafted by a handful of Democratic `` do-gooders . '' 
Quite the contrary -- it results from years of work by members of the National Council on the Handicapped , all appointed by President Reagan . 
You depict the bill as something Democratic leaders `` hoodwinked '' the administration into endorsing . 
The opposite is true : It 's the product of many meetings with administration officials , Senate staffers , advocates , and business and transportation officials . 
Most National Council members are themselves disabled or are parents of children with disabilities . 
Your editorial mockingly entitles this legislation the `` Lawyers ' Employment Act . '' 
The group currently holds 3,027,330 Rally 's shares , or 45.2 % of its commmon shares outstanding . 
Companies listed below reported quarterly profit substantially different from the average of analysts ' estimates . 
The companies are followed by at least three analysts , and had a minimum five-cent change in actual earnings per share . 
Lawyers representing DPC declined to elaborate , saying they did n't have a final copy of the filing . 
DPC made a $ 15-a-share bid for the company in May , but Dataproducts management considered the $ 283.7 million proposal unacceptable . 
Hong Kong financial institutions have been waiting for interest-rate futures for a long time . 
The contract was first proposed more than two years ago , but shortly afterward , the colony 's markets were hit hard by the October 1987 global stock crash . 
Analysts and financial officials in the British colony consider the new contract essential to the revival of the Hong Kong Futures Exchange , which has never fully recovered from the October 1987 crash . 
The contract will be based on the three-month Hong Kong interbank offered rate , or Hibor . 
If the contract is as successful as some expect , it may do much to restore confidence in futures trading in Hong Kong . 
Two years ago , the futures exchange was the envy of other would-be futures centers . 
Trading in Hang Seng index futures remains crippled by the experience . 
Despite the thin trading , and after two painful years of restructuring , the futures market has shown itself to be resilient in two recent tests . 
Most important to the contract 's success is the commitment of Hong Kong 's big financial institutions , especially the two leaders , Hongkong & Shanghai Banking Corp. and the local subsidiary of Britain 's Standard Chartered Bank PLC . 
Colony banks have a major stake in how interest rates move because of their enormous Hong Kong-dollar exposure . 
In early 1988 , when the three-month Eurodollar rate was between 7 % and 8 % , the three-month Hibor rate was as low as 1 % . 
Despite the initial support expected , trading in the contract is likely to start slowly . 
The wounds from the 1987 crash have n't yet healed , and not all claims against the exchange clearinghouse -- by those who bet the Hang Seng index would fall -- have been settled . 
And Mr. Gilmore cautions that there may be limits on how much the contract can grow because the Hong Kong dollar is n't a widely traded currency . 
Exchange officials also point out that Hibor futures were designed for institutions and corporations , not for the type of small individual investors who were very active in Hang Seng index futures and defaulted in the 1987 crash . 
Sales jumped 12.2 % to 232.12 billion yen from 206.87 billion yen . 
Net income increased 6.7 % to 12.43 billion yen from 11.66 billion yen . 
For the full fiscal year ending next March , Oji predicted that total sales of 477.00 billion yen , up from 420.68 billion yen in the previous fiscal year . 
Jujo Paper said its pretax profit rose 0.3 % to 13.05 billion yen from 13.02 billion yen . 
Jujo Paper said its pretax profit rose 0.3 % to 13.05 billion yen from 13.02 billion yen . Sales rose 8.5 % to 195.19 billion yen from 179.916 billion yen . 
Jujo Paper said its pretax profit rose 0.3 % to 13.05 billion yen from 13.02 billion yen . Sales rose 8.5 % to 195.19 billion yen from 179.916 billion yen . Net income surged 10 % to 7.12 billion yen from 6.47 billion yen . 
Jujo Paper predicted that for the full fiscal year ending next March 31 , sales will total 400.0 billion yen , up from 366.89 billion yen . 
In 1986 , Unocal sold a 7.5 % stake in the Veslefrikk field to Deutsche Erdolversorgungs G.m.b . H. , a West German oil company , for an undisclosed amount . 
Security said it signed a letter of intent to purchase La Jolla Bancorp , agreeing to pay $ 15 of its own stock for each share of La Jolla . 
Service Corp. International said it expects to report net income of 15 cents a share for the third quarter . 
In the comparable year-ago quarter , the second quarter ended Oct. 31 , Service Corp. had a loss of about $ 12.5 million , or 26 cents a share , on revenue of $ 175.4 million . 
Your Sept. 25 criticism of credit-card foreign-exchange charges is unwarranted . 
The main factors for the September increase from the previous month were higher prices for services , food and housing . 
Sales increased 11.9 % to 279.39 billion yen from 249.68 billion yen . 
Sales increased 11.9 % to 279.39 billion yen from 249.68 billion yen . Net fell 1 % to 3.23 billion yen from 3.26 billion yen . 
Rolled copper product sales were major contributors to overall sales growth . 
September 's growth followed a 8.7 % rise in July and an 8 % increase in August , showing continued expansion at high year-on-year levels . 
That 's the troubling conclusion reached by many international investors and money managers angry at the malfunctions on Continental stock exchanges during last week 's global market turbulence . 
`` I 'm not saying London covered itself in glory , but the events of the past week have certainly exposed Europe 's weaknesses , '' says Stewart Gilchrist , a director of Scottish Amicable Investment Managers in Glasgow , Scotland , which manages about # 6 billion -LRB- $ 9.63 billion -RRB- in institutional money . 
Unable to unload a large block of a French blue-chip company 's shares in Paris for two days last week , a frustrated Scottish Amicable fund manager finally tossed down her phone in disgust and called James Capel & Co. , a London brokerage firm . 
On so-called Manic Monday , Oct. 16 , stock prices plunged across Europe and trading problems erupted . 
London had some problems , too . 
The London exchange 's electronic price-reporting system provided only indicative , or non-firm , prices for about 40 minutes on Manic Monday . 
But London 's problems were nothing compared with the Continent 's . 
In Brussels , which recently spent millions of dollars on a computer-assisted trading system , disgusted traders watched helplessly as a software failure before opening on Manic Monday prevented trading for two days . 
By Wednesday , frustrated Belgian brokers reopened the market by using the time-honored method of quoting stocks with chalk on a blackboard . 
In France , more than half the top 25 blue-chip stocks -- including such giants as BSN and Elf Aquitaine -- did n't open until Wall Street rallied late in the European trading day , traders say . 
`` Belgium was closed for two days , France closed for a couple of hours , Germany was stuck . 
The switch to the London market during such turbulent times is significant . 
For one thing , the size of the affected market is enormous -- the European stock markets account for some 22.5 % of global stock market capitalization , with an estimated value of $ 2.175 trillion , according to Morgan Stanley Capital International . 
The switch to London underscores the fact that despite the economic restructuring associated with European Community efforts to develop a single market by 1992 , European stock trading remains a highly fragmented and very localized activity . 
Meantime , brokers on the Continent are worried , too , mostly by the potential loss of business . 
`` I would be much happier if this volume -LCB- in German stocks -RCB- were in Frankfurt rather than London , '' says Dieter Bauernfeind , head of international equity sales at Dresdner Bank in Frankfurt . 
Already the Germans appear to be acting 
Already the Germans appear to be acting ; at a special meeting on the day of the decline , directors of the Frankfurt Stock Exchange voted to extend their trading hours , although they have n't decided when or by how much . 
Already the Germans appear to be acting ; at a special meeting on the day of the decline , directors of the Frankfurt Stock Exchange voted to extend their trading hours , although they have n't decided when or by how much . A Frankfurt exchange official , acknowledging the brokers ' anxieties , says the market still feels it `` functioned OK during this crash . '' 
But it 's just one of those things that happened . 
Unice -- an acronym for the Union of Industrial and Employers ' Confederations of Europe -- fears that the charter will force EC countries to adopt a single pattern in labor relations . 
But the cosmetic changes are n't expected to win over Britain . 
Mr. Tyszkiewicz said the charter would put poorer EC countries such as Spain , Greece and Portugal at a disadvantage . 
Indeed , lower wages -- in Greece , they are a third of the EC average -- are n't enough to offset higher transport costs and lower productivity in the southern countries . 
But the Unice official said that producing a charter acceptable to both Britain and European industry is n't an unattainable goal . 
One possible political solution , an EC official said , would be for the commission to present the action program in late November , before the adoption of the charter at a summit of EC governments on Dec. 8 and 9 . 
Sam Ramirez and his men are late . 
`` We 've been putting in long hours , '' Mr. Ramirez says -- six-day weeks and 13-hour days for the last two months . 
Independent drillers are gingerly sinking bits into the Earth 's crust again . 
Some in Big Oil are easing the grip on their wallets . Independent drillers are gingerly sinking bits into the Earth 's crust again . 
Investment capital is creeping back , and oil properties are fetching more . 
In broadest terms , stability has quietly settled into international oil markets . 
Mideast politics have calmed down and the squabbling within the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries seems under control for now . 
`` The fundamentals of supply and demand once again are setting oil prices , '' says Victor Burk , an Arthur Andersen & Co. oil expert . 
Not that oil suddenly is a sure thing again . 
The current equilibrium is fragile and depends on steady , strong demand and continued relative harmony within OPEC , producer of more than 40 % of the non-Communist world 's crude . 
Also , the new stirrings are faint , and some question their extent . 
With all this , even the most wary oil men agree something has changed . 
`` It does n't appear to be getting worse . 
Though modest , the change reaches beyond the oil patch , too . 
The same roller-coaster prices that halted U.S. oil exploration and drove many veteran oil men and companies out of the business also played havoc with the nation 's inflation rate , the trade deficit and oil users ' corporate and personal budgets . 
And consumers `` should be comfortable , '' adds W. Henson Moore , U.S. deputy secretary of energy . 
The catalyst for all this has been OPEC . 
About a year ago , it ended an on-again , off-again internal production war that had put prices on a roller coaster and pitched oil towns from Houston to Caracas into recession . 
Saudi Arabia , OPEC 's kingpin , abandoned a policy of flooding the market to punish quota-cheaters . 
In addition , global petroleum demand has been climbing . 
For OPEC , that 's ideal . 
The resulting firm prices and stability `` will allow both producers and consumers to plan confidently , '' says Saudi Arabian Oil Minister Hisham Nazer . 
To promote this balance , OPEC now is finally confronting a long-simmering internal problem . 
At its November meeting , it will try to revise its quotas to satisfy Persian Gulf members that can produce far more oil than their allotments . 
Being held well below capacity greatly irritates them , and has led to widespread cheating . 
That would send prices plummeting from what some gun-shy U.S. oil executives still regard as too low a level . 
Patrick J . Early , president of Amoco Corp. 's oil-production unit , says that despite recent stability , he plans continued tightening of costs and exploration spending . 
The view of some others in Big Oil , he maintains , `` is very much -LCB- similar to -RCB- Amoco 's outlook . '' 
A mile and a half away looms the 150-foot-tall rig of the Sniper , due to be pumping by December . 
It is more aggressive than most , but it is n't the only company with a new attitude , as it found when it went looking for a partner for the Sharpshooter . 
Mitchell Energy & Development Corp. became the partner , ponying up more than half of the $ 600,000 in drilling and start-up costs . 
`` A kind of no-mistakes mentality '' had been stifling activity , says Don Covey , Mitchell 's oil exploration chief . 
`` At this price , $ 18 plus or minus , and with costs being significantly less than they were several years ago , the economics are pretty good , '' says George Kadane , head of the company . 
The activity is enough to move some oil-service prices back up a little . 
Some drill-bit prices have risen 5 % in the past month . 
Some drill-bit prices have risen 5 % in the past month . In the Gulf of Mexico , a boat to deliver supplies to offshore rigs now costs around $ 3,000 a day , up nearly 60 % since June . 
Some drill-bit prices have risen 5 % in the past month . In the Gulf of Mexico , a boat to deliver supplies to offshore rigs now costs around $ 3,000 a day , up nearly 60 % since June . Some service boats recently were auctioned for about $ 1.7 million each , up from less than $ 1 million two years ago . 
Still , there is money to be made . 
Most oil companies , when they set exploration and production budgets for this year , forecast revenue of $ 15 for each barrel of crude produced . 
So , according to a Dun & Bradstreet Corp. survey , companies that had been refusing to spend even their very conservative budgets may loosen up before year end . 
Funds for drilling may inch up more next year if oil prices stay stable . 
Texaco , thinking in terms of $ 18-to-$19 oil for 1990 , may raise spending , especially for low-risk prospects , an official says . 
Outside investors , scarce since '86 , are edging back . 
Wall Street generally likes the industry again . 
The appetite for oil-service stocks has been especially strong , although some got hit yesterday when Shearson Lehman Hutton cut its short-term investment ratings on them . 
Contractors such as Parker Drilling Co. are raising cash again through stock offerings , and for the first time in years , two oil-service companies recently went public . 
But a few new spots are opening . 
Out in the oil fields , if activity picks up much more , shortages could appear because so many roughnecks , roustabouts and others left after the crash . 
Already `` it 's hard to get people . 
For most field workers , it 's about time . 
Mr. Ramirez , who arrived late at the Sharpshooter with his crew because he had started early in the morning setting up tanks at another site , just got the first raise he can remember in eight years , to $ 8.50 an hour from $ 8 . 
Norman Young , a `` mud-logger '' at the Sniper well , has worked all but about nine days of this year . 
`` First year I came back there was n't any work , '' he says . 
But it wo n't be a boom again . 
No major booms , no major setbacks , '' he predicts . 
The figures confirm that there certainly is n't any drilling boom . 
And the number of rigs active in the U.S. is inching up . 
According to Baker Hughes Inc. , 992 rotary rigs were at work in the U.S. last week , up from the year-ago count of 933 . 
Some equipment going to work is almost new . 
For Zel Herring , owner and a cook at the Sandhills Luncheon Cafe , a tin building in midtown , all this has made for a very good year . 
Mike Huber , a roustabout , is even making it in his new career as an entrepreneur . 
He got three trucks and a backhoe cheap . 
`` I want to add one more truck , '' Mr. Huber says . 
I sense that it 's going to continue to grow . 
Accepted theories of asset pricing offer a perfectly legitimate explanation . 
Thus , rather than seeing the excess returns to the pro-selected portfolio as being abnormal , I see those returns as simply compensations for taking on added risk . 
If you asked me to select a stock with the highest expected return , I would select a stock with the greatest amount of undiversifiable risk , as I am sure your pros do . 
Moreover , your hypothetical investor has forsaken the gains to be had in reducing risk by diversifying his portfolio . 
A four-stock portfolio is still exposed to a great deal of unnecessary risk . 
This means the returns can vary a great deal . 
Scott E. Hein Texas Tech University Lubbock , Texas Your Investment Dartboard article misses the target . 
For example , your pickers ' recommendations for the coming month are , on average , 22.5 % riskier than holding the market portfolio according to Value Line 's Beta estimates . 
James Morgan 's pick for October -- Dynascan -- is a substantial 35 % riskier than the market portfolio 
BEING A TRAVEL agent used to be pretty glamorous . 
Los Angeles police say the thieves seem to be part of a crime network that knows how to convert blank tickets into real ones . 
But then , he says , they put two loaded pistols to his temple and demanded he open the safe . 
When he initially refused , he says , they stabbed him in the back and made off with $ 2,000 and 280 blank tickets . 
As word of the crime spree has spread , many agents have started changing their open-door policies . 
At El Monte Travel Center in El Monte , Calif. , customers now can get in only through a buzzer and lock system . 
The robberies also have set off a controversy involving the airlines . 
Agents say airlines , which track ticket numbers of all stolen tickets , should be doing more to catch the thieves by confiscating the tickets when they 're used . 
`` They have the most sophisticated computers in the world , '' says Mr. LLerena . 
Before the law went into effect last month , car rental companies were charging as much as $ 12 a day for the waiver in Texas . 
Now , they 're charging as little $ 3 a day . 
A recent study for the Federal Aviation Administration found that major airlines sometimes make flight attendants work 16 hours or more straight -- despite union contracts at some airlines limiting duty time to 14 hours . 
For instance , tired flight attendants might not react quickly enough during an emergency evacuation . 
`` At the end of their day , they are zombies , '' says John Galipault , president of the Aviation Safety Institute , a public-interest group in Worthington , Ohio . 
`` They have to work such long hours and then we expect them to be heroes if there 's an evacuation . '' 
In response to the study , the FAA says it is considering changing its policy -- or lack of it -- on flight attendants . 
GOLF HAS BECOME the latest diversion for travelers stuck at some airports . 
The average cost for breakfast at a `` decent '' hotel restaurant in New York is $ 17.12 , according to Corporate Travel magazine . 
Why do you continually ignore the salubrious effects of indexing the basis of capital gains for inflation ? 
I think the reason is that you are confusing tax `` rates '' with tax `` payments . '' 
Your Sept. 29 page-one story on the House-passed capital-gains plan is a good example . 
You lead readers to believe that the House reduced the capital-gains tax for two years only . 
As you can see , the capital-gains reduction plan adopted by the House would not be temporary , but permanent . 
That the motivation for the two-year reduction to 19.6 % is budgetary does not mean it is not in the public interest . 
To argue that this is `` not likely '' to affect the economy in positive ways is contrary both to recent experience with capital-gains tax cuts and to common sense . 
A large part of the long-term appreciation of assets reflects inflation , and the taxation of inflation-created capital gains is confiscation . 
Under current law , it is not financially rational to forgo consumption . 
Real , aftertax returns from financial assets are on the order of 1 % or 2 % a year . 
Grace , a maker of specialty chemicals that already owned about 30 % of closely held Sierra , said it owns a 49 % stake in the new company . 
Under the initial proposal , for example , banks would have been required to disclose that portion of allowances for loan losses that reflects specific letters of credit for which customers had defaulted . 
The FASB rule will cover such financial instruments as interest rate swaps , financial guarantees , foward interest rate contracts , loan contracts , loan commitments and options written on securites held . 
The bank also said its effort would continue past the Nov. 1 deadline set in that agreement and that the litigation between the two sides might resume as a result . 
The team reported they managed to induce bacteria to produce a non-toxic version of the poisons produced by the bacterium that causes whooping cough . 
The vaccine , however , causes allergic reactions that can be fatal . 
This bacterium produces a toxin that , if used as a vaccine , can induce immunity to whooping cough . 
The Italian-led scientific team said they had succeeded in getting bacteria to produce a non-toxic version of the pertussis toxin , which could be used as a safe vaccine . 
The researchers reported they have been able to pluck the five genes that produced the toxin out of the pertussis bacterium . 
Ordinarily in genetic engineering each of these genes , minus the one that caused the virulence , would have been transferred to another bacterium , called E. coli , which would then produce a nonvirulent version of the toxin . 
The new bacteria recipients of the genes began producing pertussis toxin which , because of the mutant virulence gene , was no longer toxic . 
In 1796 , Mayer Amschel Rothschild founded Bankhaus M.A. Rothschild & Sons and later sent his four sons to London , Paris , Vienna and Naples to begin the bank 's expansion during the early 19th century . 
Much of the family 's mystique remained . 
The family 's long absence is understandable . 
The family was in Allied countries during both World War I and the long period of economic strife of the 1920s . 
During the Third Reich , the Rothschilds were a target of Nazi propaganda against Jewish financiers . 
Indeed , the competition is n't greatly concerned . 
The return of the Rothschilds is modest . 
The constraints do n't bother the office 's 54-year-old manager , Erich Stromeyer . 
In March , N M Rothschild in London and Rothschild Bank in Zurich showed assets of # 4.1 billion -LRB- $ 6.51 billion -RRB- and 1.26 billion Swiss francs -LRB- $ 774 million -RRB- , respectively . 
`` Obviously , there are quantitative limitations on the assistance we can provide , '' concedes Baron David de Rothschild , `` but we feel we have some cards to play . '' 
The Rothschilds hope to use a long history in private banking and an aura of exclusivity to attract private and institutional investors . 
But increasingly , people are questioning that view , and the critics include some of the country 's most successful investors . 
Essentially , the critics of stock-index futures fall into two camps . 
One group says the futures contribute to stock market volatility 
One group says the futures contribute to stock market volatility ; the other contends that futures are a sideshow of speculation that detracts from the stock market 's basic function of raising capital . 
While it was once expected that futures would mimic stock prices , traders now routinely check the futures markets in Chicago before they buy or sell stocks . 
Paul Lesutis , who manages more than $ 3 billion of investments at Provident Capital Management Inc. , blames futures markets for leading the way . 
`` The fundamentals do n't change in an hour , '' he says . 
Index arbitrage -- the rapid-fire buying and selling of stocks offset with opposite trades in futures -- is frequently blamed for adding to stock market volatility . 
`` The kind of instant liquidity that is implied by index futures is that you can buy a portfolio over two years and get out in one day . 
It 's too disruptive , '' he says . 
But stock-index futures have plenty of support . 
Defenders say futures make markets more efficient and provide ways for investors to reduce risks . 
Louis Margolis , managing director in charge of equity options and futures at Salomon Inc. , says that trading baskets of stocks began in the 1970s , a decade before the advent of futures . 
He says `` blaming futures is like blaming the messenger . '' 
`` All life is about change -- either you adapt or die , '' says one Chicago futures trader . 
Many investment managers say futures are useful as a way to hedge portfolios . 
Many investment managers say futures are useful as a way to hedge portfolios . 
One reason futures are said to add volatility is that -- unlike in stocks -- people can speculate in futures with little money down . 
Margin requirements for speculators on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange are currently about 7 % . 
`` For $ 10 million , you can move $ 100 million of stocks , '' a specialist on the Big Board gripes . 
The S&P 500 index futures `` transferred the identity of 500 stocks into one unit - making them a simple commodity to trade , '' says George Kegler , senior vice president at A. Webster Dougherty in Philadelphia . 
But owning index futures is n't the same as owning the underlying stocks . 
Futures , on the other hand , are a zero sum game -- a market for making side bets about the direction of stock prices . 
`` You do n't own anything , '' says Stephen Boesel , a money manager for T. Rowe Price in Baltimore . 
Meeting in Strasbourg Wednesday , the commission voted , as expected , to formally object to the accord between Air France , the state-owned airline , and state-controlled domestic carrier Air Inter . 
At issue is an accord dating back to March in which Air France gained access to five domestic French routes under Air Inter 's flight numbers and the domestic airline got to fly to five cities outside of France under the flag of Air France . 
The EC Commission decided that such an accord does n't benefit consumers enough to merit an exemption from antitrust law . 
An Air France spokeswoman said , `` we 're absolutely ready to study all solutions . '' 
The indictment charged that Pymm operated a machine to crush broken thermometers and recover the mercury in an illegal workroom . 
The executives face five to 15 years in prison and fines of $ 5,000 or double the profit made by failing to comply with the rules . 
The GM move follows Tuesday 's declaration by Ford , which holds an unwelcome 12.45 % stake in Jaguar , that it is prepared to bid for the entire company . 
Speculative investors , betting on an imminent clash between Ford and GM , pushed up Jaguar 's share price five pence -LRB- eight U.S. cents -RRB- to a near-record 720 pence -LRB- $ 11.60 -RRB- in late trading on London 's stock exchange yesterday . 
But an all-out bidding war between the world 's top auto giants for Britain 's leading luxury-car maker seems unlikely . 
`` We will not go over a certain level , '' said David N. McCammon , Ford 's vice president for finance , at a news conference yesterday in Dearborn , Mich . 
`` There 's some price at which we 'd stop bidding . '' 
Ford is willing to bid for 100 % of Jaguar 's shares if both the government and Jaguar shareholders agree to relax the anti-takeover barrier prematurely . 
The government probably would n't give in readily to a hostile foray by Ford , however . 
In wooing British lawmakers , GM has pointed out that its willingness to settle for a minority stake would keep Jaguar British-owned and independent . 
While the visit was unrelated to Jaguar , GM Chairman Roger Smith answered the legislators ' questions about it over lunch Tuesday . 
Politics also influences the government 's thinking on the anti-takeover restriction . 
SKF said demand for the group 's main product , rolling bearings , remained favorable in Europe , which accounts for slightly more than two-thirds of group sales . 
The three business areas engaged in rolling bearing operations continued to show favorable sales development . 
Misunderstanding conversations with us , Mr. Tomsho argued that Mr. Redford 's environmental views are at odds with Utah residents . 
This may have been true 10 years ago , but times have changed , even in Utah . 
Mr. Redford no longer stands out as an extremist . 
He has not changed , but those around him have . 
Recently , some 60 environmental and outdoor groups representing such divergent points of view as the Sierra Club , the League of Women Voters and the National Rifle Association joined together to request a reassessment of the environmentally unsound Central Utah Project . 
While Utah is not yet a haven for environmentalism , public views toward the environment have significantly improved . 
It astounds me he can rationalize his self-righteous and greedy actions in Utah . 
He 's rich , famous and intelligent , and has the time to do something that not even the federal government will do . 
Some conservatives say Mr. Bush should n't make the trip , during which he will participate in Costa Rica 's celebration of 100 years of democracy . 
`` I believe it will do more damage than good because it will legitimize people like Daniel Ortega , '' says Curtin Windsor , who served as U.S. ambassador to Costa Rica during the Reagan administration . 
At the same time , liberal and moderate Democrats note the irony of Mr. Bush 's joining a celebration of Costa Rican democracy at a time his administration has sought sharp cuts in U.S. aid to the tiny country . 
However , peace efforts by Costa Rican President Oscar Arias have n't always helped the country 's cause in Washington . 
`` Let me say there is a symbolic component to this trip , '' Secretary of State James Baker told reporters Wednesday . 
They want late-night shuttles to the biology labs . 
`` We could have called ourselves the Academic Intellectual Society , but then everyone would have said , ` Oh , you mean the nerd-and-geek club , ' '' Leonid Fridman , SONG 's graduate-student adviser , told 19 attendees at the club 's inaugural meeting earlier this month . 
Some people may think of nerds as calculator-toting , socially awkward individuals with shirt-pocket liners for their pencils and a preoccupation with computers and matters numerical . 
The club plans to show nerdy movies , such as `` Real Genius , '' in which physics whizzes pop corn with lasers ; and naturally , the `` Revenge of the Nerds , '' a tale of college males with runny noses and ill-fitting pants . 
`` I 'm a math major , but I want to know about psychobiology . For instance ? 
And some oil companies are trying to lock in future supplies . 
Typical is Ente Nazionale Idrocarburi , Italy 's state-owned energy company , which not long ago acquired through its AGIP oil subsidiary a 5 % share in the consortium accounting for half of Nigeria 's oil output . 
Franco Reviglio , ENI chairman , looks for sweeping structural change in the oil industry -- he calls it a `` revolution '' requiring huge investments -- as a result of environmental issues . 
He made a special trip to examine U.S. environmental trends because they are often followed in Europe . 
In the U.S. , the search for oil had been headed toward environmentally sensitive areas believed to have vast reserves . 
Similarly , a group of companies led by Chevron Corp. has been unable to pump oil found off the California coast in the early 1980s . 
But the push for cleaner fuels is increasing the attractiveness of natural gas . 
Activity has revived in the largest U.S. gas-producing regions , such as the Gulf of Mexico . 
Santa Fe International Corp. , which is owned by Kuwait -LRB- and is n't related to Santa Fe Southern Pacific 's unit -RRB- , is stepping up development of a well off Texas ' Matagorda Island where it found gas in 1987 . 
`` We could have sat on it longer , but the impetus is to get the gas to the marketplace , '' says Richard Poole , senior scout for Santa Fe International . 
The proposals go far beyond the current and rather confused policies of perestroika , Mikhail Gorbachev 's restructuring of the economy . 
Instead , they map out a strategy in several phases from now until 1995 . 
Rigid ideological restrictions on property ownership should be abandoned . 
The document proposes breaking up the monolithic system of state-owned enterprises and farms and allowing a big private sector to flourish , helped by tough anti-monopoly legislation . 
The economy would be thrown open to numerous types of ownership between now and 1992 , including factories leased by workers or owned by shareholders , cooperatives and joint ventures . 
The document proposes breaking up the monolithic system of state-owned enterprises and farms and allowing a big private sector to flourish , helped by tough anti-monopoly legislation . The economy would be thrown open to numerous types of ownership between now and 1992 , including factories leased by workers or owned by shareholders , cooperatives and joint ventures . Some forms of private property would be sanctioned . 
Emergency measures would be introduced to ease the country 's financial crisis , notably its $ 200 billion budget deficit . 
Emergency measures would be introduced to ease the country 's financial crisis , notably its $ 200 billion budget deficit . By the end of next year , all loss-making state enterprises would be put out of business or handed over to workers who would buy or lease them or turn them into cooperatives . 
Emergency measures would be introduced to ease the country 's financial crisis , notably its $ 200 billion budget deficit . By the end of next year , all loss-making state enterprises would be put out of business or handed over to workers who would buy or lease them or turn them into cooperatives . Similar steps would be taken to liquidate unprofitable state and collective farms by the end of 1991 . 
Emergency measures would be introduced to ease the country 's financial crisis , notably its $ 200 billion budget deficit . By the end of next year , all loss-making state enterprises would be put out of business or handed over to workers who would buy or lease them or turn them into cooperatives . Similar steps would be taken to liquidate unprofitable state and collective farms by the end of 1991 . A unified system of taxation should be introduced rapidly . 
A genuine market for labor and wages would replace the present rigid , centralized system . 
Departing from decades of Soviet dogma , the new system would lead to big differences in pay between workers and almost certainly to unemployment . 
The entire system of centrally set prices would be overhauled , and free-market prices introduced for most wholesale trade and some retail trade . 
Consumers would still be able to buy some food and household goods at subsidized prices , but luxury and imported items , including food , would be sold at market prices . 
Consumers would still be able to buy some food and household goods at subsidized prices , but luxury and imported items , including food , would be sold at market prices . Wholesale prices would be divided into three categories : raw materials sold at fixed prices close to world levels ; government-set procurement prices for a small number of key products ; and free prices for everything else to be determined by contracts between suppliers and purchasers . 
The current liberalization and decentralization of foreign trade would be taken much further . 
Soviet companies would face fewer obstacles for exports and could even invest their hard currency abroad . 
Soviet companies would face fewer obstacles for exports and could even invest their hard currency abroad . Foreigners would receive greater incentives to invest in the U.S.S.R. 
Soviet companies would face fewer obstacles for exports and could even invest their hard currency abroad . Foreigners would receive greater incentives to invest in the U.S.S.R. Alongside the current non-convertible ruble , a second currency would be introduced that could be freely exchanged for dollars and other Western currencies . 
Ready , Willing and Unable I always lift the hood When my car does n't start ; If gadgets at home do n't work I coolly take them apart . 
Albert Engelken and Robert Thomson had never met , though for 38 years their lives had been intertwined in a way peculiar to the sports world . 
He often groans , he says , at the `` clutter '' of sports stories about drugs , alcohol , gambling and some player 's lament `` about the miserly millions he is offered to play the game . '' 
He often groans , he says , at the `` clutter '' of sports stories about drugs , alcohol , gambling and some player 's lament `` about the miserly millions he is offered to play the game . '' His morning paper , the Washington Post , even carries a sports column called `` Jurisprudence '' that recounts the latest arrests and convictions of players and team managers . 
`` The Giants struck first , winning the opener , 3-1 , on a two-run homer off Dodger right-hander Ralph Branca , '' Mr. Engelken recalls with precision today . 
`` The Giants got swamped in the second game , 100 , and trailed 4-1 going into the bottom of the ninth of the third and deciding game . 
The rest , as they say , is history . 
Mr. Thomson , a tall , Scottish-born , right-hand hitter , stepped into the batter 's box . 
`` Thomson took a called strike , '' Mr. Engelken recounts . 
The tension mounted as Ralph Branca , again on the mound , stared down the batter . 
The pitch sailed toward Bobby Thomson high and inside and then , with a crack of the bat , was sent rocketing back into the lower leftfield stands . 
Mr. Engelken and Mr. Thomson drifted in different directions in the subsequent years , and the Polo Grounds , located under Coogan 's Bluff in upper Manhattan , was replaced by a public-housing project . 
Mr. Engelken moved south to Washington , but he took with him enduring memories of the homer of 1951 . 
When his wife , Betsy , came down the aisle on their wedding day in 1966 , Mr. Engelken -- no slouch on the romantic front -- gave her the ultimate compliment : `` You look prettier than Bobby Thomson 's home run . '' 
And when Mr. Engelken 's sister , Martha , who was born two days before the home run , reached her 25th birthday , Mr. Engelken wrote his sports hero to tell him of the coincidence of events . 
Betsy Engelken asked the same question earlier this year , when her husband was about to turn 50 . 
Mrs. Engelken had scheduled a stop on the New Jersey Turnpike to , she told her husband , pick up some papers for a neighbor . 
In a matter of minutes , she was back , with a tall , silver-haired man in tow . 
`` And there he was , '' recalls Mr. Engelken . 
`` And there he was , '' recalls Mr. Engelken . `` The hero of my youth , the one person in history I 'd most like to meet . 
Keep your Thomas Jeffersons , or St. Augustines or Michelangelos 
They talked of the home run . 
They talked of the aftermath . 
Mr. Engelken , says his wife , `` was overwhelmed by the whole thing . 
The two men spent an hour at Exit 10 , rehashing the event , `` fulfilling the lifelong dream of a young boy now turned 50 , '' Mr. Engelken says . 
But his fans , to his constant amazement , never let him forget the famous four-bagger . 
`` On the way home , '' his notes recall , `` it took concentrated effort to keep that car pointed south . 
`` Take heart , sports fans , '' he wrote . 
`` Real heroes exist . 
The newspaper could fetch between 15 million and 20 million Canadian dollars -LRB- US$ 12.8 million to $ 17.1 million -RRB- , said one analyst , who asked not to be identified . 
Southam agreed to sell its 47 % stake in Selkirk Communications Ltd. , a broadcasting concern , to Maclean Hunter Ltd. for about C$ 285 million last year . 
The company had a tax credit of $ 1.4 million . 
The company had a tax credit of $ 1.4 million . In the year-earlier quarter , the tax credit was $ 3.3 million . 
For the nine months , Norton had net of $ 81.2 million , or $ 3.87 a share , and a tax credit of $ 4.4 million . 
Y.J. Park and her family scrimped for four years to buy a tiny apartment here , but found that the closer they got to saving the $ 40,000 they originally needed , the more the price rose . 
`` I am determined to get an apartment in three years , '' she says . 
For the Parks and millions of other young Koreans , the long-cherished dream of home ownership has become a cruel illusion . 
The panel found that since 1987 , real-estate prices rose nearly 50 % in a speculative fever fueled by economic prosperity , the 1988 Seoul Olympics and the government 's pledge to rapidly develop Korea 's southwest . 
The result is that those rich enough to own any real estate at all have boosted their holdings substantially . 
Rents have soared along with house prices . 
Former National Assemblyman Hong Sa-Duk , now a radio commentator , says the problem is intolerable for many people . 
Last week , the government took three bills to the National Assembly . 
The proposed legislation is aimed at rectifying some of the inequities in the current land-ownership system . 
But opposition legislators and others calling for help for South Korea 's renters say the proposed changes do n't go far enough to make it possible for ordinary people to buy a home . 
Some want lower limits on house sizes 
But others , large landowners , real-estate developers and business leaders , say the government 's proposals are intolerable . 
Government officials who are urging real-estate reforms balk at the arguments of business leaders and chafe at their pressure . 
Mr. Lee estimates that about 10,000 property speculators are operating in South Korea . 
One research institute calculated that as much as 67 % of corporate-owned land is held by 403 companies -- and that as little as 1.5 % of that is used for business . 
Under those measures , financial institutions would be restricted from owning any more real estate than they need for their business operations . 
Banks , investment and credit firms would be permitted to own land equivalent in value to 50 % of their capital -- currently the proportion is 75 % . 
But Mrs. Park acknowledges that even if the policies work to slow or stop speculation , apartment prices are unlikely to go down . 
The ordinance , in Moon Township , prohibits locating a group home for the handicapped within a mile of another such facility . 
The most ruthless dictatorships have not censored their press more brutally than the drug mafias censor Colombia 's . 
The censorship is enforced through terrorism and assassination . 
Within the past two months a bomb exploded in the offices of the El Espectador in Bogota , destroying a major part of its installations and equipment . And only last week the newspaper Vanguardia Liberal in the city of Bucaramanga was bombed , and its installations destroyed . 
Journalists and their families are constantly threatened as are the newspaper distribution outlets . Within the past two months a bomb exploded in the offices of the El Espectador in Bogota , destroying a major part of its installations and equipment . And only last week the newspaper Vanguardia Liberal in the city of Bucaramanga was bombed , and its installations destroyed . 
Distribution centers are bombed , and advertisers are intimidated . 
If the Colombian media accept this new and hideous censorship there is little doubt that the drug mafia 's terrorism someday will extend to all the newspapers published in the free world . 
The American people and their government also woke up too late to the menace drugs posed to the moral structure of their country . 
Even now , the American attack upon this tremendous problem is timid in relation to the magnitude of the threat . 
Even now , the American attack upon this tremendous problem is timid in relation to the magnitude of the threat . I can attest that a recent Colombian visitor to the U.S. was offered drugs three times in the few blocks ' walk between Grand Central Terminal and the Waldorf Astoria Hotel in midtown Manhattan . 
Colombia alone -- its government , its people , its newspapers -- does not have the capacity to fight this battle successfully . 
All drug-consuming countries must jointly decide to combat and punish the consumers and distributors of drugs . 
Much is being done in Colombia to fight the drug cartel mafia . 
Luxurious homes and ranches have been raided by the military authorities , and sophisticated and powerful communications equipment have been seized . 
Luxurious homes and ranches have been raided by the military authorities , and sophisticated and powerful communications equipment have been seized . More than 300 planes and helicopters have been impounded at airports , and a large number of vehicles and launches has been confiscated . The military has also captured enormous arsenals of powerful and sophisticated weapons , explosives and other war-like materiel . 
There has been a lot of talk that a large portion of the Colombian economy is sustained by the laundering of drug money . 
In my opinion , this is not true . 
What is of much more importance to the Colombian economy than the supposed benefits of laundered drug money is higher prices for Colombia 's legitimate products . 
The price of coffee has gone down almost 45 % since the beginning of the year , to the lowest level -LRB- after inflation -RRB- since the Great Depression . 
Market conditions point to even lower prices next year . 
As a result , Colombia will earn $ 500 million less from its coffee this year than last . 
U.S. interests occasionally try to impose barriers to the import of another important Colombian export -- cut flowers -- into the American market . 
I take advantage of this opportunity given to me by The Wall Street Journal to make a plea to the millions of readers of this newspaper , to become soldiers dedicated to the fight against the use of drugs . 
Each gram of cocaine consumed is a deadly bullet against those in our country and in the rest of the world who fight this terrible scourge . 
It has more drug users than Boston has people . 
It has more drug users than Boston has people . Thirty-four thousand of its children live in foster homes , while 50,000 residents have no homes at all . 
As the campaign hits the home stretch , however , voters still have very little idea what they can expect from him . 
The soft-spoken , silver-haired Manhattan borough president -- the first black man to win the Democratic nomination for mayor here -- does n't have a single prominent political enemy . 
While he is widely described as a man with deep convictions , he has few major political programs that he can call his own . 
Now , as election day nears , even some supporters wonder what he will do if he wins the mayoralty on Nov. 7 . 
They wonder whether he can be firm with his longtime allies , including union leaders and political cronies who may seek a place at the trough . 
They wonder whether he has the economic know-how to steer the city through a possible fiscal crisis , and they wonder who will be advising him . 
In an interview with reporters and editors of The Wall Street Journal , Mr. Dinkins appears quite confident of victory and of his ability to handle the mayoralty . 
`` A lot of people think I will give away the store , but I can assure you I will not , '' he says . 
The city is full of aging bridges , water mains and roadways that are in need of billions of dollars worth of repair . 
Mr. Koch already has announced he will drop 3,200 jobs from the city payroll , but that wo n't be enough . 
New York State Comptroller Edward Regan predicts a $ 1.3 billion budget gap for the city 's next fiscal year , a gap that could grow if there is a recession . 
`` He is going to face a mess , '' says City Council President Andrew Stein . 
By and large , Mr. Dinkins has finessed the touchy question of whose ox he would gore . 
Instead of focusing on the financial future , Mr. Dinkins has sold himself as a unifier for a city recently touched by racial violence and as a soothing antidote to 12 years of commotion generated by Mayor Koch . 
`` The thing about the Dinkins candidacy is that it offers hope to a broad range of people , '' says Meyer Frucher , a real-estate executive and former aide to Gov. Mario Cuomo . 
No doubt , Mr. Dinkins has been a calming influence . 
He is an avuncular figure who remembers the birthdays of colleagues ' children , opens doors for women , and almost never has a bad word to say about anybody . 
More important , he emerged as a peacemaker last summer after the Central Park rape of a white jogger -- in which a group of Harlem teens was charged -- and the racial murder of a black teen-ager in the white Brooklyn neighborhood of Bensonhurst . 
But even in his front-runner campaign , he has shown signs of the indecisiveness and confusion that some say has plagued his tenure as Manhattan borough president -- and might hinder him as mayor . 
Over the last few weeks , he has frittered away roughly half of what was once a 33-point lead in the polls over Mr. Giuliani . 
A story about how he mishandled the sale to his son of his stock in a media company controlled by his political patron Percy Sutton was allowed to fester a full week before Mr. Dinkins faced the media . 
The debt rose further in 1977 when Mr. Sutton resigned his position as Manhattan borough president to run for mayor . 
But by most accounts , he made little of the post and was best known among city politicians for his problems making up his mind on matters before the city 's Board of Estimate , the body that votes on crucial budget and land-use matters . 
Often , Mr. Dinkins 's procrastination prevented him from having a say in the way things turned out , critics claim . 
But board members say he took so long to decide how to vote that by the time he decided , it was too late to try to draw other members to his position . 
Says one city official : `` Everybody else had brought in the wagons and made their deal . 
One Board member , Bronx Borough President Ferdinand Ferrer , was said to be so impatient with Mr. Dinkins 's behavior at many meetings that he withheld his support for Mr. Dinkins 's mayoral effort until late in the primary campaign . 
Mr. Dinkins 's campaign manager and former chief of staff , Bill Lynch , denies that the Manhattan borough president has taken too long to decide important issues . 
On some occasions when Mr. Dinkins has discussed the issues during the campaign , he has run into a familiar kind of trouble . 
Some supporters were stunned this summer when Mr. Dinkins suggested weakening the law forbidding public employees to go on strike . 
He withdrew the remark . 
Then , two days before receiving an endorsement from environmental groups , Mr. Dinkins promised he would issue a three-year moratorium on construction of garbage-incinerator plants . 
While his public statements have at times been confusing , Mr. Dinkins 's position papers have more consistently reflected anti-development sentiment . 
He favors a form of commercial rent control , which the financial community believes would make it more difficult to attract investment in the city . 
In the midst of a labor shortage , he proposes linking city subsidies to businesses to their record of hiring New York City residents . 
And he favors a more cooperative approach toward the neighboring states of New Jersey and Connecticut in the battle over companies thinking of moving employees out of New York City . 
But Mr. Dinkins 's economic planks do n't seem to bother the business community , where he draws significant support . 
Mr. Dinkins 's inner circle of advisers appears to include both ideologues and pragmatists , leaving voters with little clue as to who will be more influential . 
`` We know there are potholes for the city out there , '' says Mr. Paterson , Mr. Dinkins 's former law partner . 
`` If any of us think we 're going to sidetrack David 's determination to be the best possible mayor because of his obligations to us , we are making a sad mistake . '' 
But Mr. Dinkins 's sense of pragmatism often comes across more as an insider 's determination not to upset the political apple cart . 
He is taken aback in an interview when asked whether , as mayor , he plans on reforming the political `` fiefdoms '' that perpetuate the monumental ineffectiveness of New York 's school system . 
Despite many doubts about his candidacy , white New Yorkers -- who gave Mr. Dinkins 30 % of their votes in the primary -- are n't expected to desert in sufficient numbers to turn the election to Mr. Giuliani . 
The former U.S. attorney , who prosecuted targets ranging from Mafia dons to Wall Street executives , has succeeded in raising questions about Mr. Dinkins 's ethical standards , but so far has failed to generate excitement about his own candidacy . 
As a Republican in an overwhelmingly Democratic city , Mr. Giuliani has an inherent handicap . 
Mr. Giuliani is finding that Mr. Dinkins , in his many years in public life , has built up considerable good will that so far has led many voters to overlook certain failings . 
A deep trench now runs along its north wall , exposed when the house lurched two feet off its foundation during last week 's earthquake . 
A deep trench now runs along its north wall , exposed when the house lurched two feet off its foundation during last week 's earthquake . A side porch was ripped away . 
A deep trench now runs along its north wall , exposed when the house lurched two feet off its foundation during last week 's earthquake . A side porch was ripped away . The chimney is a pile of bricks on the front lawn . 
Equipped with cellular telephones , laptop computers , calculators and a pack of blank checks , they parcel out money so their clients can find temporary living quarters , buy food , replace lost clothing , repair broken water heaters , and replaster walls . 
They do n't flinch at writing them . 
But she asks a workman toting the bricks from the lawn to give her a boost through an open first-floor window . 
Once inside , she spends nearly four hours measuring and diagramming each room in the 80-year-old house , gathering enough information to estimate what it would cost to rebuild it . 
One of the friends sweeps broken dishes and shattered glass from a countertop and starts to pack what can be salvaged from the kitchen . 
The owners , William and Margie Hammack , are luckier than many others . 
A few years ago , Mrs. Hammack insisted on buying earthquake insurance for this house , which had been converted into apartments . 
Ms. Johnson , who works out of Aetna 's office in Walnut Creek , an East Bay suburb , is awed by the earthquake 's destructive force . 
`` It 's hard to accept all the suffering people are going through , but you have to . 
For Aetna and other insurers , the San Francisco earthquake hit when resources in the field already were stretched . 
Adjusters who had been working on the East Coast say the insurer will still be processing claims from that storm through December . 
Some adjusters , like Alan Singer of San Diego , had been working in Charleston for nearly four weeks . 
`` The secret to being a good adjuster is counting , '' says Gerardo Rodriguez , an Aetna adjuster from Santa Ana . 
But they must also assign a price to each of these items as well as to floors , wallcoverings , roofing and siding , to come up with a total value for a house . 
To do that , they must think in terms of sheetrock by the square foot , carpeting by the square yard , wallpaper by the roll , molding by the linear foot . 
Sometimes repairs are out of the question . 
But such skills were alien to Toni Johnson . 
Four years ago , she was managing a film-processing shop and was totally bored . 
A friend mentioned that she might want to look into a position at Aetna , if she was interested in a job that would constantly challenge her . 
She signed up , starting as an `` inside '' adjuster , who settles minor claims and does a lot of work by phone . 
She spent a month at an Aetna school in Gettysburg , Pa. , learning all about the construction trade , including masonry , plumbing and electrical wiring . 
Her new line of work has some perils . 
Recently , a contractor saved her from falling three stories as she investigated what remained of an old Victorian house torched by an arsonist . 
`` I owe that contractor . 
As Ms. Johnson stands outside the Hammack house after winding up her chores there , the house begins to creak and sway . 
The ground shakes underneath her . 
During her second meeting with the Hammacks , Ms. Johnson reviews exactly what their policy covers . 
They would like to retrieve some appliances on the second floor , but wonder if it 's safe to venture inside . 
Ms. Johnson tells them that , if the appliances ca n't be salvaged , their policy covers the replacement cost . 
Mr. Hammack is eager to know what Aetna will pay for the house , which has to come down . 
The adjuster had n't completed all the calculations , but says : `` We 're talking policy limits . '' 
In this case , that 's about $ 250,000 . 
It suddenly dawns on Mr. Hammack that rebuilding the house in Los Gatos , an affluent community in Santa Clara County , may cost more than Aetna 's policy will pay . 
So , many Californians believe they can get by without it . 
Even Ms. Johnson herself made that assumption . 
`` I always knew that the ` Big One ' was coming , but not during my lifetime , '' she says . 
For Ms. Johnson , dealing with the earthquake has been more than just a work experience . 
She lives in Oakland , a community hit hard by the earthquake . 
She lives in Oakland , a community hit hard by the earthquake . She did n't have hot water for five days . 
The apartment she shares with a 12-year-old daughter and her sister was rattled , books and crystal hit the floor , but nothing was severely damaged . 
Her sister , Cynthia , wishes Toni had a different job . 
Last Sunday , Ms. Johnson finally got a chance to water her plants , but stopped abruptly . 
`` I realized I could n't waste this water when there are people in Watsonville who do n't have fresh water to drink . '' 
The FCC moves were good news for AT&T , which has been striving since the breakup of the phone system for greater latitude in pricing and reduced regulation . 
The FCC took three specific actions regarding AT&T . 
AT&T gave a 5 % to 10 % discount to the Memphis , Tenn. , company that oversees Holiday Inns , in response to a similar discount offered to Holiday Corp. by MCI Communications Corp . 
Indeed , Joe Nacchio , AT&T 's vice president for business-communications services , said AT&T offered a similar Tariff 15 discount to Resort Condominium International , of Indianapolis , to meet another MCI bid . 
Apart from those two actions , Mr. Sikes and the three other commissioners said they expect to re-examine how AT&T is regulated since competition has increased . 
AT&T applauded the FCC 's actions . 
United Telecommunications Inc. 's US Sprint unit said it was `` obviously disappointed '' with the FCC decision on Tariff 12 . 
US Sprint said was it will petition the FCC decision in federal court . 
Separately , AT&T filed a countersuit against MCI accusing it of misleading consumers through allegedly `` false and deceptive '' advertising . 
The AT&T action was the most recent blow in a nasty fight . 
Interviews with three major fund groups -- Fidelity Investments , Vanguard Group Inc. and T. Rowe Price Associates Inc. -- confirm the trend . 
Some fund managers say negative publicity has exacerbated investors ' concern about recent declines in junk-bond prices . 
The withdrawals could spell trouble for the $ 200 billion junk market . 
If the heavy outflows continue , fund managers will face increasing pressure to sell off some of their junk to pay departing investors in the weeks ahead . 
Mutual fund groups have n't lost control of much of the outgoing money , says Louis Harvey , Dalbar 's president . 
The 88 mutual funds investing solely in junk bonds hold assets of about $ 32 billion . 
The $ 1.5 billion Fidelity High Income Fund has had a net outflow of about $ 150 million in the past two months . 
The fund , with a cash cushion of more than 10 % , has `` met all the redemptions without having to sell one thing , '' Mr. Litvack says . 
Still , two-thirds of the outflow has been steered into other Vanguard portfolios , says Brian Mattes , a vice president . 
Those withdrawals , most of which were transferred to other T. Rowe Price funds , followed little change in the fund 's sales picture this year through August . 
Junk-fund holders have barely broken even this year , as fat interest payments barely managed to offset declining prices . 
Fidelity 's junk fund has fallen 2.08 % this year through Oct. 19 
People who remain in junk funds now could get hit again , some analysts and fund specialists say . 
`` There was a general feeling that we 'd seen the worst , '' said Patrick Foley , deputy chief economic adviser for Lloyds Bank in London . 
`` The market was caught totally the wrong way ... . 
In late New York trading yesterday , the dollar was quoted at 1.8400 marks , up from 1.8353 marks late Wednesday , and at 142.10 yen , up from 141.52 yen late Wednesday . 
U.S. GNP rose at an annual rate of 2.5 % in the third quarter . 
But the broader truth is more complicated -- and dismaying . 
They simply got carried away with interpreting what the executive order banning assassinations really meant . 
It 's ironic that David Boren should be in the center of this mire . 
A former Oklahoma governor , he 's a thoughtful defender of presidential powers in foreign policy . 
He 's a rare Democratic hawk . 
He 's the senator most like Arthur Vandenberg , the GOP senator from Michigan who worked to forge a bipartisan foreign policy in the 1940s . 
`` Vandenberg and Rayburn are heroes of mine , '' Mr. Boren says , referring as well to Sam Rayburn , the Democratic House speaker who cooperated with President Eisenhower . 
But in 1989 most senators have other ideas . 
Last July , his committee rejected a Reagan administration plan to support a coup in Panama . 
Ohio Democrat Howard Metzenbaum refused to support any plan that might get people hurt , a charming notion for a great power . 
So the administration dropped it . 
Mr. Boren does n't think all this influenced the failed coup this month , but he does concede that Congress has made mistakes . 
`` It does n't mean unanimous , '' he insists , though he implies it means a bipartisan majority . 
`` The sustainability of U.S. foreign policy is essential , '' he explains . 
Mr. Boren is confusing consensus on general principles with agreement on specific actions . 
Vandenberg and Rayburn were wise enough to leave specific operations to presidents 
The result is that the Senate committee has what amounts to veto power over every covert action . 
Mr. Boren even spies a silver lining . 
More broadly , Mr. Boren hopes that Panama will shock Washington out of its fear of using military power . 
But it 's just as plausible to argue that if even David Boren can get mired in this sort of mess , the problem goes beyond legal interpretation . 
But Panama illustrates that their substitute is a system that produces an absurd gridlock . 
In Panama , the U.S. interests at stake were happily minor ; the only people killed were foreigners hapless enough to trust American will . 
I remembered being fired at age 44 , with five children at home , when my views and actions were deemed unsettling by a timid , small-town employer . 
But if , as many now fear , Waertsilae Marine joins the ranks of failed shipyards it might turn out to be remembered most as a blemish on Finland 's international reputation . 
However , some bankers cited possible parallels between the Waertsilae Marine case and the collapse of Norway 's state-owned Kongsberg Vappenfabrikk AS two years ago . 
The decision by a majority of state-appointed Waertsilae Marine directors Monday to file for bankruptcy was an abrupt about-face from previous government policy . 
Government officials were expected to combine Waertsilae Marine with two other struggling firms , and thus ensure Finland 's survival as a shipbuilding nation . 
Analysts say Mr. Suominen had grown increasingly worried about the state 's potential financial exposure as Waertsilae Marine 's losses ballooned to more than double the figure estimated in August . 
Senior ministry officials huddled with creditors during the week in an attempt to agree on some form of restructuring that would keep Waertsilae Marine operating . 
`` The last thing markets like is uncertainty , '' said Ian Harwood , chief economist at S.G. Warburg & Co. , of the resignations of Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson and chief economic adviser Sir Alan Walters . 
The pound immediately began to take a buffetting after the resignations were announced . 
The British economy is hardly the picture of health these days . 
At 15 % , base interest rates are the highest in eight years , and the 7.6 % annual inflation rate is by far the highest in the European Community . 
Increasingly , the financial markets are reflecting the gloom . 
The Financial Times 100-share index has dropped about 12 % from its 1989 high of 2423.9 on Sept. 8 . 
`` We are expecting a recession , '' says Donald Franklin , chief economist at Schroders investment bank . 
`` The only question is , how deep is it going to be ? 
The outlook for corporate earnings is fairly bleak . 
Red ink already has begun to flow in the wake of the U.S.-U.K. market breaks of Oct. 13 and Oct. 16 . 
London-based LIT Holdings , the largest financer of traders in the Chicago options and futures markets , said yesterday it will incur a second-half loss as a result of the market plunge . 
Christopher Castleman , LIT chief executive , said in an interview that the loss stemmed from the default of three options traders who had bet on a price rise in UAL Corp. shares before Oct. 13 . 
Denizens of London 's financial district are cushioning themselves for heavy blows . 
`` There 's a strong sense among the martini set that there 's more -LCB- bad news -RCB- to come , '' asserts Roger Yates , chief investment officer at Morgan Grenfell Asset Management . 
`` People in the stock market were very much Thatcher 's children -- very young and wealthy optimists . 
The malaise has created a nostalgic longing for the uncomplicated days of the mid-1980s , before a rash of securities-firm mergers on the eve of the industry 's deregulation in 1986 . 
But after trading losses in the mid-October market jolts here , many people will be lucky to have jobs at all , executives predict . 
The industry , which currently employs about 25,000 people in London , has shed about 2,500 jobs over the past two years . 
The mergers and acquisitions market has been a saving grace for the industry , but uncertainties are beginning to mount even there . 
But he adds : `` Everybody and his sister have opened up M&A shops . 
It 's difficult to see that there 's going to be enough business to go around . 
About eight firms will get the lion 's share . 
It all adds up to a cold winter here . 
One person who is past worrying about London 's blues is Christopher Hartley . 
`` I 'm glad to be out , '' said the 32-year-old Mr. Hartley in a phone interview . 
`` The percentage of your day spent twiddling your thumbs got greater , and the work day kept getting longer . 
The warning by the U.S. attorney 's office follows two decisions by the U.S. Supreme Court last June . 
According to individuals familiar with Mr. Antar 's case , prosecutors issued their warning this week after one of Mr. Antar 's attorneys asked whether legal fees might be subject to seizure . 
In a letter , prosecutors told Mr. Antar 's lawyers that because of the recent Supreme Court rulings , they could expect that any fees collected from Mr. Antar may be seized . 
In Newark , U.S. Attorney Samuel A. Alito said , `` I do n't think there 's any legal reason to limit forfeiture of attorney 's fees to drug cases . '' 
Mr. Antar was charged last month in a civil suit filed in federal court in Newark by the Securities and Exchange Commission . 
In that suit , the SEC accused Mr. Antar of engaging in a `` massive financial fraud '' to overstate the earnings of Crazy Eddie , Edison , N.J. , over a three-year period . 
The SEC has alleged that Mr. Antar aimed to pump up the company 's stock price through false financial statements in order to sell his stake and reap huge profits . 
The Justice Department has emphasized that the government 's fee-forfeiture power is to be used sparingly . 
But there are times when they seize up , and panicky sellers can not find buyers . 
That 's just what happened in the October 1987 crash . 
As the market tumbled , disorderly market conditions prevailed 
As the market tumbled , disorderly market conditions prevailed : The margins between buying bids and selling bids widened 
As the market tumbled , disorderly market conditions prevailed : The margins between buying bids and selling bids widened ; trading in many stocks was suspended 
The situation was like that of a skier who is thrown slightly off balance by an unexpected bump on the slope . 
His skis spread farther and farther apart -- just as buy-sell spreads widen during a financial panic -- and soon he is out of control . 
It 's doubtful , though , whether circuit breakers do any real good . 
Instead , an appropriate institution should be charged with the job of preventing chaos in the market : the Federal Reserve . 
The availability of timely assistance -- of a backstop -- can help markets retain their resilience . 
The Fed already buys and sells foreign exchange to prevent disorderly conditions in foreign-exchange markets . 
The Fed has assumed a similar responsibility in the market for government securities . The Fed already buys and sells foreign exchange to prevent disorderly conditions in foreign-exchange markets . 
This does not mean that the Federal Reserve does not already play an important indirect role in the stock market . 
In 1987 , it pumped billions into the markets through open market operations and the discount window . 
The stock market is certainly not too big for the Fed to handle . 
The foreign-exchange and government securities markets are vastly larger . 
Daily trading volume in the New York foreign exchange market is $ 130 billion . 
The combined value of daily equity trading on the New York Exchange , the American Stock Exchange and the NASDAQ over-the-counter market ranges between $ 7 billion and $ 10 billion . 
The $ 13 billion the Fed injected into the money markets after the 1987 crash is more than enough to buy all the stocks traded on a typical day . 
The Fed 's stock market role ought not to be very ambitious . 
It should seek only to maintain the functioning of markets -- not to prop up the Dow Jones or New York Stock Exchange averages at a particular level . 
The Fed should guard against systemic risk , but not against the risks inherent in individual stocks . 
Instead , the Fed could buy the broad market composites in the futures market . 
The increased demand would normalize trading and stabilize prices . 
Stabilizing the derivative markets would tend to stabilize the primary market . 
But since the member countries of the International Monetary Fund agreed to the `` Guidelines to Floating '' in 1974 , such difficulties have been avoided . 
`` Caution should ... be the rule of the day , '' said Mr. Leigh-Pemberton in a speech to the Association of Corporate Treasurers ' annual dinner . 
In other comments , he said takeovers may not always be the most efficient way of securing a change of corporate direction or strategy . 
Intel said that last week a customer discovered two flaws in its 80486 microprocessor chip 's `` floating-point unit '' , a set of circuits that do certain calculations . 
But while International Business Machines Corp. and Compaq Computer Corp. say the bugs will delay products , most big computer makers said the flaws do n't affect them . 
Hewlett announced last week that it planned to ship a computer based on the 486 chip early next year . 
Likewise , AST Research Inc. and Sun Microsystems Inc. said the bugs wo n't delay their development of 486-based machines . 
`` We have n't modified our schedules in any way , '' said a Sun spokesman . 
Nonetheless , concern about the chip may have been responsible for a decline of 87.5 cents in Intel 's stock to $ 32 a share yesterday in over-the-counter trading , on volume of 3,609,800 shares , and partly responsible for a drop in Compaq 's stock in New York Stock Exchange composite trading on Wednesday . 
Intel said it had corrected the problems and would start producing bugless chips next week . 
What 's more , the bugs only emerge on esoteric applications such as computer-aided design and scientific calculations , he said , and then very seldom . 
`` These errata do not affect business programs , '' he said . 
Sun , Hewlett-Packard and others say Intel is n't wholly to blame for the snafu . 
The real culprits , they said , are computer makers such as IBM that have jumped the gun to unveil 486-based products . 
In late September , IBM began shipping a plug-in card that converts its PS\/2 model 70-A21 from a 80386 machine to an 80486 machine . 
IBM has no plans to recall its add-on cards , the spokeswoman said , and could probably circumvent the bugs without long product delays . 
Compaq , which said it discovered the bugs , still plans to announce new 486 products on Nov. 6 . Because of the glitch , however , the company said it does n't know when its machine will be commercially available . 
But while the chip 's speed in processing power is dazzling , it 's real strength lies in its software inheritance . 
Of the big computer makers , only Apple Computer Co. bases its machines on Motorola chips instead . 
`` The 486 is going to have a big impact on the industry , '' said Hewlett-Packard 's Mr. Archuleta . 
The venture , which involves adding sophisticated equipment to make cast-iron mill rolls , is part of a two-pronged effort to shore up a division that has posted continuing operating losses for several years . 
While the joint venture affects only a small part of Bethlehem 's operations , it is significant because it marks the first time the nation 's No. 2 steelmaker has joined forces with a foreign partner . 
`` We think it 's a step in the right direction for Bethlehem , '' said Felix Bello , WEFA Group 's international steel analyst . 
Bethlehem is also working with the United Steelworkers union to consolidate BethForge 's two machine shops and four heat-treatment facilities of the press-forge operations . 
If you 're still wondering about the causes of the slump in the junk-bond market , consider the case of Columbia Savings & Loan . 
The California thrift has just announced a $ 226 million third-quarter loss . 
Now , we regard this as a largely phony issue , but the `` long term '' is nonetheless a big salon topic all around the Beltway . 
It turns out that Columbia had this huge loss in large part because the new congressionally mandated rules forced it to adjust the book value of its soon-to-be-sold junk bonds to the lower of either their cost or market value . 
Congress 's ham-handed treatment of the existing structure of junk-bond holdings reminds us of a story in the Journal earlier this year about the Baby Bell companies ' desire to have the court-ordered bans lifted on offering information services . 
The issue of seeking relief from Congress was raised to Delbert Staley , the chairman of Nynex . 
Mr. Staley replied : `` Legislation tends to be compromised . 
I believe we have to take a shot at getting as much done as we can through the court , through Justice and through state and federal regulatory agencies . 
Healthy thrifts such as Columbia or the junk-bond market itself should have been so lucky . 
The shift wo n't affect operations . 
But the pullout is an embarrassment to New York City officials , coming at a time of high office building vacancy rates and departures by other major companies . 
New York authorities , informed yesterday about the move , reacted with concern and even some anger to the idea of the nation 's third-largest corporation leaving without giving them an opportunity to accommodate it . 
`` When we were told it was Exxon , it was beyond all expectations ; what a coup , '' said Tom Lewis , senior vice president of Dallas Partnership , the economic development affiliate of the city 's Chamber of Commerce . 
Exxon said it will build a new headquarters on a 132-acre tract in the 10-year-old Las Colinas complex in the suburb of Irving . 
Exxon officials said it will cost less to run its headquarters at Las Colinas than in New York . 
The company wo n't say how much it will save , but during at its interim location , sources say it will likely pay rent of $ 10 to $ 15 per square foot . 
The completion of the merger agreement follows months of twists and turns . 
In January , American Medical brought in a new chief executive officer , Richard A. Gilleland , 45 , who will remain as chairman , president and chief executive . 
It also was considering a restructuring to help boost the stock price . 
Then , after extending its offer four times waiting for a congressional tax ruling , IMA early this month lowered its offer to $ 26.50 a share amid turbulence in the junk bond market . 
In testimony to the Senate securities subcommittee , Mr. Brady disputed the view of SEC Chairman Richard Breeden , who told a House panel Wednesday that he does n't want the ability to halt the markets . 
Mr. Breeden contended that discretionary power could have an impact on the markets if rumors were to circulate about when the exchanges might be closed . 
Separately , Mr. Brady said he asked the Working Group on Financial Markets to determine whether futures margins are too low . 
Mr. Brady also said he expects the leveraged buy-out phenomenon to `` end under -LRB- its -RRB- own weight . '' 
Asked whether there is anything Congress should do to curb the LBO boom , Mr. Brady responded , `` I think the LBO phenomenon , -LRB- while -RRB- it wo n't stop completely , will be a thing of the past . '' 
The former Wall Street executive refused to offer an opinion on the controversy surrounding program trading , which has recently become a larger part of the trading in the market and has been blamed for accelerating the drop two weeks ago . 
The complex bill , introduced by Sens. Patrick Leahy -LRB- D. , Vt. -RRB- , Richard Lugar -LRB- R. , Ind. -RRB- , and Bob Kerrey -LRB- D. , Neb. -RRB- , covers a wide range of provisions that would affect the funding and authority of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and would profoundly change the way the industry is regulated . 
One of the most prominent features is the requirement that in three years all exchanges have in place a system that records all trades by a source independent of the executing broker . 
The U.S. futures exchanges compete world-wide as never before . 
Today , trading in almost any commodity can be diverted from U.S. markets with just a few strokes of a keyboard . 
Today , trading in almost any commodity can be diverted from U.S. markets with just a few strokes of a keyboard . All foreign markets are aggressively courting U.S. business . In fact , several London markets already offer lower costs for trading in the same or very similar contracts . 
The U.S. exchanges need both market integrity and cost-efficiency 
The Senate bill contains many provisions that will increase the costs of trading . 
Other provisions have a more subtle , but nonetheless real and detrimental effect on the international position of U.S. exchanges . 
One section of the bill would make all commodity brokerage firms and floor brokers liable for damages without willful misconduct . 
It is only logical to assume that the enactment of this provision will lead to increased litigation . 
Another measure makes commodity brokerage firms liable for violations committed by independent floor brokers who execute trades for them . 
Faced with the virtually impossible task of supervising the execution of each trade , many commodity brokerage firms are likely to stop doing business with independents and instead hire their own salaried floor brokers . 
This would force out of business many of the individuals and small firms that function as floor brokers . 
When problems surface , the temptation becomes strong to summarily overhaul a market system that has served for more than 100 years . 
Zaita the `` cripple-maker '' rearranges the limbs of aspiring beggars -- and takes a cut of every cent they cadge . Hassan Kamel Ali is a card shark and dope dealer who has a simple creed : `` I live in this world , assuming that there is no morality , God or police . '' 
For the killer and thief , Said Mahran , fame flows from the barrel of a gun . 
They also chart the evolution of a city that has grown tenfold in the author 's lifetime , from a colonial outpost of fez-wearing pashas to a Third World slum choking on its own refuse . 
A minor bureaucrat dies suddenly , dooming his family to poverty and eventual disgrace . 
His daughter turns to dressmaking , then to peddling herself for a few piasters . 
The real tragedy , though , lies not in the family 's circumstances but in its concern for appearances . 
Mourning for the father is overshadowed by the shame of burying him in a pauper 's grave . 
But its unsentimental sketches of Cairo life are vintage Mahfouz . 
If the setting is exotic , the prose is closer to Balzac 's `` Pere Goriot '' than it is to `` Arabian Nights . '' 
Mr. Mahfouz began writing when there was no novelistic tradition in Arabic , and he modeled his work on Western classics . 
In one sense , this limits him 
`` The Thief and the Dogs , '' written in 1961 , is a taut , psychological drama , reminiscent of `` Crime and Punishment . '' 
Its antihero , Said Mahran , is an Egyptian Raskolnikov who seeks nobility in robbing and killing . 
By 1961 , Mr. Mahfouz 's idealism had vanished or become twisted , as it has in Said . 
Cairo 's spirited squalor also has gone gray . 
While the theme is compelling , the plot and characters are not . 
We never care about Said or the `` hypocrites '' he hunts . 
The indirectness of his later work reflects both an appetite for new genres and the hazards of art in the Arab world . 
Mr. Mahfouz has been pilloried and censored for questioning Islam and advocating peace with Israel . 
Veiling his message has helped him endure . 
`` Wedding Song '' gives glimpses of a Cairo that has become so much harsher since his youth , when , as he once said , `` the poorest person was able to find his daily bread and without great difficulty . '' 
The clutter of the 1940s remains , but its color has drained away , and the will to overcome has been defeated . 
Cars ca n't move because of overflowing sewers . 
`` Wedding Song '' gives glimpses of a Cairo that has become so much harsher since his youth , when , as he once said , `` the poorest person was able to find his daily bread and without great difficulty . '' The clutter of the 1940s remains , but its color has drained away , and the will to overcome has been defeated . Cars ca n't move because of overflowing sewers . Characters complain ceaselessly about food queues , prices and corruption . And the ubiquitous opium addict is now a cynical and selfish man who gripes : `` Only government ministers can afford it these days ! '' 
Norwood , Mass.-based Phoenix , a once-high-flying maker of software for personal computers , has had substantial losses in the past two quarters . 
Instead , Congress 's idea of reform is to increase this slush fund by $ 28.4 million . And transfer control of much of it to Capitol Hill . 
After one of the most amazing debates we 've ever seen on the cable channel C-SPAN , the House voted 250 to 170 on Wednesday to order $ 28.4 million in spending for a New Jersey arts center , a Michigan library and 38 other pet projects out of the same discretionary fund that was supposed to have been so abused during Sam Pierce 's tenure . 
Of course , this kind of blatant congressional pork-barreling is called `` constituent service '' by Members , while the same kind of noncompetitive favoritism at HUD is labeled `` influence peddling . '' 
Unlike those awful Republican consultants , Members do n't profit directly from HUD projects . 
Conference committees are breeding grounds for mischief . 
They are often closed to the public and no minutes are taken . 
In this case , the Members outdid themselves . 
We had intercepted during the year an estimated $ 5 billion street value of cocaine . 
I do n't know how much got through . 
I welcome the emphasis that is now being put on the drug problem . 
The conceptual base -- a criminal-justice approach -- is the same that I have worked through before , in the Nixon administration when I was budget director and secretary of the treasury with jurisdiction over the Customs . 
We designed a comprehensive program , and we worked hard on it . 
In the Reagan administration we designed a comprehensive program ; we worked very hard on it . 
What we have before us now is essentially the same program but with more resources plowed into all of the efforts to enforce and control . 
These efforts wind up creating a market where the price vastly exceeds the cost . 
With these incentives , demand creates its own supply and a criminal network along with it . 
It seems to me we 're not really going to get anywhere until we can take the criminality out of the drug business and the incentives for criminality out of it . 
Frankly , the only way I can think of to accomplish this is to make it possible for addicts to buy drugs at some regulated place at a price that approximates their cost . 
When you do that you wipe out the criminal incentives , including , I might say , the incentive that the drug pushers have to go around and get kids addicted , so that they create a market for themselves . 
I find it very difficult to say that . 
Sometimes at a reception or cocktail party I advance these views and people head for somebody else . 
They do n't even want to talk to you . 
But I feel that if somebody does n't get up and start talking about this now , the next time around , when we have the next iteration of these programs , it will still be true that everyone is scared to talk about it . 
But trade , one of the economy 's main forces in the past few years , showed a sharp deterioration . 
`` For the past two years , the foreign trade sector has been a major contributor to economic growth . 
Although the economy showed no change of pace from the second quarter , many analysts expect it to slow considerably in the fourth quarter as demand for autos falls , partly because of higher prices on models introduced last month . 
Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady called the 2.5 % pace `` good , solid growth , '' although he said he expects the expansion to slow in the fourth quarter . 
But administration officials were concerned over the bleak trade report , which showed the deficit in the country 's trade of goods and services swelling to a $ 74 billion annual rate in the third quarter from a $ 51 billion rate in the second quarter . 
`` We were unprepared for the deterioration in net exports , '' said Daniel Van Dyke , vice president of U.S. forecasting at Bank of America in San Francisco . 
Some analysts also were disturbed by a pickup in the growth of business inventories . 
According to the report , inventories outside the farm sector grew at an annual rate of $ 24.6 billion in the third quarter , up from a $ 19.5 billion pace in the second quarter . 
`` That suggests there is a little more inventory overhang than some people expected , '' said Edward Boss , senior financial economist at Continental Bank in Chicago . 
Northrop Corp. received a $ 93.5 million contract by the U.S. Air Force for production tooling and test equipment for the Tacit Rainbow defense-suppression missile . 
General Motors Corp. 's Chevrolet division said it is offering $ 750 cash incentives on all 1990 models of its full-size Blazer and Suburban truck lines . 
But in 1988 , it ran into a buzz saw : a Defense Department spending freeze . 
Iverson 's earnings plunged 70 % to $ 1.2 million . 
Iverson Technology is one of many small defense contractors besieged by the slowdown in defense spending . 
Companies that only recently were thriving find themselves scrambling to survive . 
As their varied strategies suggest , there is more than one way to respond to a disaster -- though it 's too soon to tell whether the changes will pay off . 
For many companies , the instinctive first response is to cut costs . 
Others are trying to find specialty defense work spared by the slowdown or new niches created by budget-cutting . 
In the belief that development of advanced military technology will remain a top Defense Department priority , ERC last year acquired W.J. Schafer Associates , a technical and scientific analysis company with contracts under the Strategic Defense Initiative . 
As orders for its aircraft and submarine parts dwindled , three years of steady growth ended with a 69 % drop in income in this year 's first half . 
UNC also is selling new parts , if needed , directly to the military instead of through a prime contractor . 
In another approach , tiny Iverson Technology is trying to resume its growth by braving the new world of commercial products . 
Donald Iverson , chairman , says he hopes the company can eventually get up to half of its revenue from commercial markets . 
Moreover , it 's trying to transfer its skill at designing military equipment to commercial ventures . 
`` We 're trying to take the imagination and talent of our engineers and come up with new processes for industry , '' says Vincent Salvatori , QuesTech 's chief executive . 
Mr. Salvatori should know . 
Instead of helping his company in the defense spending slowdown , Dynamic Engineering Inc. , a troubled subsidiary that makes wind tunnels for the space industry , contributed to much of QuesTech 's $ 3.3 million loss on $ 55.6 million in revenue last year . 
Some companies are cutting costs and hoping for the best . 
Telos Corp. , a Santa Monica , Calif. , provider of software-development and hardware-maintenance services to the military , enjoyed steady growth until this year . 
Following a tripling of earnings , to $ 3.9 million , on a doubling of revenue , to $ 116 million , over four years , earnings in the company 's fiscal first quarter , which ended June 30 , plunged 90 % to $ 45,000 . 
Telos responded by combining three of its five divisions to reduce expenses and `` bring more focus to potentially fewer bidding opportunities , '' says Lin Conger , Telos chairman and controlling shareholder . 
TransTechnology Corp. , a Sherman Oaks , Calif. , defense contractor that earned $ 9.2 million on revenue of $ 235.2 million in 1988 , provides a more dramatic example of cost-cutting . 
`` Our ordnance business has been hurt very badly by the slowdown , '' says Arch Scurlock , TransTechnology 's chairman . 
In Japan , he 's known in racy weekly magazines as the `` King of Shady Money . '' 
Nearly 20 years ago , Mr. Morishita , founder and chairman of Aichi Corp. , a finance company , received a 10-month suspended sentence from a Tokyo court for violating a money-lending law and an income tax law . 
He 's had other brushes with the law . 
Christies says it has had no contact with Mr. Morishita since the stock purchase , but that it 's happy to deal with him . 
`` We like to make our own judgments '' about Mr. Morishita , says Christopher Davidge , Christies ' group managing director . 
`` We 're an investor , '' Mr. Morishita says , sitting back in his purple gallery filled with some 20 Monets and Renoirs . 
Mr. Morishita considers himself a connoisseur of art . 
In 30 years of collecting impressionist and Japanese paintings , he has acquired 600 items , he says , enough to persuade him to start a museum next year . 
He says he spent $ 300 million on his art business this year . 
Mr. Morishita 's main business certainly appears to be thriving , although he wo n't disclose numbers . 
According to Teikoku Data Bank Ltd. , which tracks company earnings , Aichi 's revenue rose 15 % to 49.3 billion yen -LRB- $ 348.4 million -RRB- in the year ended February . 
That is , if the company reported results correctly . 
The Asahi Shimbun , a Japanese daily , last month reported that Aichi revised its tax calculations after being challenged for allegedly failing to report all of its income to tax authorities over a two-year period . 
The small , wiry Mr. Morishita comes across as an outspoken man of the world . 
But when asked what exactly he does in business , he immediately takes offense . 
`` Are you stupid ? '' he snaps . 
When a small company goes belly-up , for instance , the gossipy weekly magazines are often quick to link the demise with Aichi . 
Mr. Morishita scoffs at those stories , as well as the ones connecting him to the Japanese mob . 
The seventh child of a store owner in Aichi prefecture , Mr. Morishita started out in the textile business . 
The gruff financier recently started socializing in upper-class circles . 
He also leads an opulent life style . 
Even in Denenchofu , one of Tokyo 's richest neighborhoods , Mr. Morishita 's splashy brick manor -- one of some 10 houses he owns -- outshines the neighbors ' . 
Although Mr. Morishita says little about his business , he offers one rule to success : Never gamble too far . 
`` I quit after one try , whether I win or lose , '' he says . 
Mr. Morishita says he intends to expand his business to many other areas at home and abroad . 
He 'll be there wherever there 's money to be made , laughs Mr. Kori , the secretary . 
Settlements reached in the first nine months of 1989 called for wage increases averaging 3.7 % in the first contract year and 3.1 % annually over the life of the contracts , the department said . 
About 35 % of the workers covered by contracts signed in the first nine months of year get lump-sum payments 
The Labor Department said wage increases in manufacturing industries continue to be smaller than those in other industries . 
An enormous turtle has succeeded where the government has failed 
The 6 1\/2-foot-tall turtle , Pong Pagong , is a character who stars in the children 's television show `` Batibot . '' 
`` Batibot , '' which started in 1983 as a hybrid of the U.S. program `` Sesame Street , '' has developed into a distinctly Philippine effort . 
In the process , `` Batibot , '' an archaic Filipino word meaning `` strong '' or `` enduring , '' has become a powerful advocate of the use of the Filipino language . 
`` When we started the program six years ago , the use of Filipino was deemed unwise by the predominantly middle class , '' says Lydia Brown , the program 's creator . 
But while better-off Filipinos are quick to cite the logic in using a language as widespread as English , they are often slow to reveal that they are prejudiced against Filipino , say advocates of the native language . 
There 's also resentment . 
Other opponents of Filipino come from non-Tagalog regions . 
What tongue to speak is an emotional mine field in the Philippines . 
It is entrenched in the country 's colonial bonds to the U.S. , in Philippine class structure , in the regional loyalties of its people and in its island geography . 
The issue has been simmering for years . 
It does n't take much to provoke an intense debate . 
But many proponents of Filipino see resistance to the language finally crumbling . 
According to chief scriptwriter Rene Villanueva , `` Batibot '' does n't set out to advance the cause of Filipino . 
`` It 's not as if we 're teaching language per se 
These days , `` Batibot '' is produced in a converted lumberyard on a shoestring budget of $ 3,000 a one-hour segment . 
But advertising revenue is inadequate . 
`` Batibot '' lacks the polish of `` Sesame Street . '' 
Sound stages echo . 
Acting sometimes falls flat . 
And the show 's creativity makes up for any technological deficiencies . 
Not that the language war is won , even on `` Batibot . '' 
HEALTHDYNE Inc. , Atlanta , said its subsidiary , Home Nutritional Services Inc. , registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission an initial public offering of four million shares of common . 
Home Nutritional currently has 10 million shares outstanding . 
The move significantly expanded Black & Decker 's product line , but also significantly increased its debt load . 
The acquisition boosted Black & Decker 's ratio of debt to total capital to more than 80 % . 
The three units had combined 1988 sales of about $ 904 million . 
The five units generated sales of about $ 1.3 billion in 1988 , almost half of Emhart 's $ 2.3 billion revenue . 
The sales are an attempt to quell investor concern about Black & Decker 's increased debt burden from the Emhart purchase . 
In composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange , Black & Decker closed at $ 19.75 yesterday , down 25 cents . 
Dick Darman , call your office . 
Embedded in the `` budget '' being concocted by the House-Senate conference committee is something that looks , smells and waddles like a duck . 
The Hart-Scott filing is then reviewed and any antitrust concerns usually met . 
The $ 20,000 tax would be a small cost in a multibillion-dollar deal , but a serious drag on thousands of small , friendly deals . 
Michael Grobstein , 46 years old , was named vice chairman for planning , marketing and industry services , a new post . 
Mr. Grobstein had been a vice chairman of Ernst & Whinney , an accounting firm that merged with rival Arthur Young in July to form Ernst & Young , a major accounting , tax and management consulting firm . 
But sources said he will be urging his allies to boost their stakes in Navigation Mixte , which is being traded in London and is to resume trading in Paris Tuesday . At the same time , he is expected to seek legal and regulatory means of blocking or delaying Paribas 's bid . 
Mr. Fournier said Navigation Mixte 's 1989 unconsolidated , or parent-company , profit is likely to be 4.7 billion francs -LRB- $ 754.4 million -RRB- , up from 633.8 million francs last year . 
Mr. Fournier said the exceptional gain would mean nearly twice as high a dividend this year as last . 
`` Without some unexpected `` coup de theatre '' , I do n't see what will block the Paribas bid , '' said Philippe de Cholet , analyst at the brokerage Cholet-Dupont & Cie . 
Mr. de Cholet said Mr. Fournier 's biggest hope was to somehow persuade regulatory authorities to block the bid . 
Mr. Fournier also noted that Navigation Mixte joined Paribas 's core of shareholders when Paribas was denationalized in 1987 , and said it now holds just under 5 % of Paribas 's shares . 
Once he realized that Paribas 's intentions were n't friendly , he said , but before the bid was launched , he sought approval to boost his Paribas stake above 10 % . 
One big question now is the likely role of Mr. Fournier 's allies . 
Paribas says it will offer 1,850 francs -LRB- $ 296.95 -RRB- each for Navigation Mixte shares that enjoy full dividend rights , and 1,800 francs each for a block of shares issued July 1 , which will receive only partial dividends this year . Alternatively , it is to offer three Paribas shares for one Navigation Mixte share . 
The zero-coupon subordinated notes have no periodic interest payments . 
In addition , corporations are now shouldering a bigger share of the tax burden , as the authors of the 1986 law hoped . 
`` Tax reform is working , '' the study said . 
And 45 companies paid effective tax rates of below 10 % of their income . But even though companies are paying more taxes , many are still paying less than the statutory rate , the report said . 
Japanese retail executives say the main reason they are reluctant to jump into the fray in the U.S. is that -- unlike manufacturing -- retailing is extremely sensitive to local cultures and life styles . 
Japanese department stores are also wary of attracting negative publicity . 
After Sony Corp. 's recent headline-grabbing acquisition of Columbia Pictures , many say it makes good political sense to lie low . 
Still , for those with a long-term eye on the vast U.S. retail market , this is a tempting time to look for bargains . 
Nor is Tokyu the only Japanese retailer interested in Bloomingdale 's , which bankers in Tokyo estimate could cost between $ 1 billion and $ 1.5 billion . 
Federated ran into a cash crunch after it was acquired last year by Campeau , which relied heavily on debt to finance the transaction . 
Hoping to avoid another takeover , Mr. Traub retained Blackstone Group and Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. to help him find partners for a management-led buy-out . 
Ideally , investment bankers say , he wants to get backing from a Japanese department store and a European department store to forge a global retailing network . 
`` When you look at the economics , Traub needs a Japanese and a European partner to make it work , '' says one investment banker who follows the retail industry . 
Persuading tradition-bound Japanese retailers to get involved in the turmoils of the U.S. retailing industry is n't likely to be so easy , analysts say . 
Reluctant to advance further on their own , some stores have settled for tie-ups with famous specialty shops . 
Last March , Isetan invested 1.5 billion yen -LRB- $ 10.6 million -RRB- in a venture with Barney 's Inc. , an up-scale New York specialty clothier . 
And Mitsukoshi recently increased its equity stake in Tiffany & Co. to 13 % . 
Through the longstanding relationship between the two companies , Mitsukoshi has opened 22 Tiffany shops in its stores and arcades in Japan . 
Some industry observers say that Mitsukoshi 's classy image makes it a possible match for Saks Fifth Avenue . 
Takashimaya Co. , Japan 's oldest department store , is another name that keeps popping up as a potential fit with Saks . 
But he stops there . 
A statement from the council of cardinals said Catholics had responded generously to an appeal last year to give more money after 1987 's record $ 63 million deficit . 
Former President Richard Nixon is to visit China at the invitation of the government beginning Saturday , the Foreign Ministry announced . 
According to Mr. Nixon 's office , `` This is solely a fact-finding trip . 
According to Mr. Nixon 's office , `` This is solely a fact-finding trip . There will be no sightseeing , no shopping and no social events . '' 
A poll conducted in 12 of 16 NATO countries shows that the Dutch appear to be the strongest supporters of the alliance . 
The poll , conducted for the Dutch daily De Telegraaf by Gallup International said 81 % of Dutch people supported NATO . 
The poll , conducted for the Dutch daily De Telegraaf by Gallup International said 81 % of Dutch people supported NATO . Canada was the second most pro-NATO country with 78 % supporting the alliance , followed by the U.S. with 75 % , Britain with 71 % , Belgium with 69 % and West Germany with 63 % . 
The Israeli Manufacturers ' Association filed a police complaint against an Arab pasta maker for using the four colors of the outlawed Palestinian flag on spaghetti packages . 
`` We asked police to investigate why they are allowed to distribute the flag in this way . 
Akio Tanii , president of Japan 's Matsushita Electric Industrial Co. , presented the U.S. consul general in Osaka with a $ 1 million check to help San Francisco 's earthquake victims . 
Akio Tanii , president of Japan 's Matsushita Electric Industrial Co. , presented the U.S. consul general in Osaka with a $ 1 million check to help San Francisco 's earthquake victims . The company 's U.S. subsidiary , Matsushita Electric Corp. of America , had donated over $ 35,000 worth of Matsushita-made flashlights and batteries to residents shortly after the disaster , a company spokesman said . 
Several other Japanese companies and regional governments have sent aid to San Francisco . 
What 's more , a Hong Kong textile trader says , some Chinese exporters from state-run enterprises are protesting the crackdown by dragging their feet on soliciting new business . 
The Dow Jones Industrial Average tumbled 39.55 points , to 2613.73 , in active trading . 
Long-term Treasury bonds ended slightly higher . 
Analysts have complained that third-quarter corporate earnings have n't been very good , but the effect hit home particularly hard yesterday . 
Compaq Computer nose-dived $ 8.625 a share , to $ 100 , and pulled other technology issues lower after reporting lower-than-expected earnings after the stock market closed Wednesday . 
`` There are a lot more downward revisions of earnings forecasts than upward revisions , '' said Abby Joseph Cohen , a market strategist at Drexel Burnham Lambert . 
The bond market was unmoved by the economic statistics . 
While bond investors would have preferred growth to be a little slower , they were cheered by inflation measures in the data that showed prices rising at a modest annual rate of 2.9 % . 
Stock prices fell sharply in active trading . 
Volume on the New York Stock Exchange totaled 175.2 million shares . 
Bond prices were barely higher . 
The Treasury 's benchmark 30-year rose fractionally . 
The dollar rose modestly against most major currencies . 
In late New York trading the dollar was at 1.8400 marks and 142.10 yen compared with 1.8353 marks and 141.52 yen Wednesday . 
Yesterday 's vote on Japanese-American reparations ensures final enactment of the entitlement provision , which abandons earlier efforts to find offsetting cuts but is seen as a more realistic path to expediting compensation first authorized in 1988 . 
`` The only way to reduce the costs is to say we do n't want to pay the bill , '' said Rep. Neal Smith -LRB- D. , Iowa -RRB- , who taunted President Bush 's party to back up his campaign promise of supporting the claims of $ 20,000 per individual . 
The issue has assumed some of the character of past civil-rights debates and reopens old regional divisions in the Democratic majority . 
The estimated $ 40 million from the new pre-merger notification fee would be divided between the Justice Department 's Antitrust Division and the Federal Trade Commission , which both face serious cuts if the income is n't realized . 
The strongest sign of the Big Three 's woes came from Ford Motor Co. , which said it had a loss in its U.S. automotive business for the first time since 1982 . 
Yesterday 's announcements helped spark a midday wave of program selling in the stock market . 
As Japanese auto makers gained market share , the Big Three , with GM in the lead , slashed North American production and launched a retail discounting blitz . 
GM probably had the `` heaviest incentives , '' said Robert S. Miller , Chrysler 's chief financial officer . 
But the costly efforts did little to slow Japanese market gains , and domestic car sales have plunged 19 % since the Big Three ended many of their programs Sept. 30 . 
GM , Ford and Chrysler have already cut fourth-quarter U.S. output plans an estimated 15 % from 1988 levels . 
Nearly all the decline came in Ford 's U.S. automotive operations . 
A year earlier , Ford reported record net of $ 856.3 million , or $ 1.78 a share , on revenue of $ 20.38 billion . 
Its $ 309 million , or $ 1.32 a share , gain from the sale of 75 million Mitsubishi shares made net $ 331 million , or $ 1.42 a share . 
Mr. Miller said costs of incentives caused a `` moderate '' loss in the Highland Park , Mich. , company 's North American car and truck business . 
He said Chrysler `` is no longer sure '' of its forecast for industry car and truck sales of 14.2 million in the 1990 model year . 
In the nine months , net was $ 1.02 billion , or $ 4.38 a share , including the gain from the Mitsubishi stock sale , compared with $ 617 million , or $ 2.77 a share , after a charge of $ 93 million , or 42 cents a share , for plant closings in the 1988 period . 
But GM 's results also illustrate the increasing diversity of its operations . 
Under the circumstances , it wo n't be easy for GM to exceed its record 1988 fourth-quarter net of $ 1.4 billion , the spokesman acknowledged . 
That means it 's unlikely the company will surpass last year 's $ 4.9 billion full-year profit , even though net for the first nine months was up 1.9 % to $ 3.52 billion on revenue of $ 95.57 billion . 
There are two versions of `` Measure for Measure '' on stage at the Alley Theater here . 
One is a strong , vigorous portrayal of Shakespeare 's play 
`` Measure for Measure '' is one of Shakespeare 's `` problem '' plays , so named because it does not fit neatly into a category such as tragedy , comedy or history . 
In the play , the Duke of Vienna despairs over the licentiousness of his subjects and turns over the rule of the city to the puritanical Angelo , hoping he can set things right . 
For the Alley production , scene designer Peter David Gould has arranged a stark but extremely effective set featuring a rectangular platform of white-washed boards that extends into the audience . 
In the play 's major scenes Mr. Boyd demonstrates that he has a firm grasp of the Shakespearean dynamic . 
Mr. Boyd is of the directorial school that believes one must find modern parallels or metaphors to make Shakespeare accessible to today 's audiences . 
In his `` Measure , '' Mr. Boyd has `` modernized '' the pimps and prostitutes of Vienna whom Angelo is supposed to bring under control by converting them into transvestites , punk rockers and heavy metal types , with a strong emphasis on leather , chains and porno-inspired costumes . 
When Claudio is arrested , he is brought on stage nude except for the manacles on his wrists and ankles . 
What 's more , it represents an important step for the Alley Theater . 
He succeeded Pat Brown , who was fired by the Alley board 18 months ago . 
Her dismissal angered many in the regional theater establishment and led Peter Zeisler , head of Theatre Communications Group , to write an editorial in American Theatre magazine condemning the board . 
Now the Alley has moved ahead on both artistic and financial fronts . 
Not only is Mr. Boyd giving the theater a new sense of adventure and excitement on stage , the balance sheet is the best the theater has had in 10 years . 
`` The 60-vote requirement will be there and they do n't have the 60 votes , '' Sen. Mitchell said . 
Sen. Bob Packwood -LRB- R. , Ore. -RRB- , the leading Republican proponent of the tax cut , did n't disagree . 
Sen. Packwood has offered his capital-gains-cut package as an amendment to a bill , now pending in the Senate , that would authorize aid to Poland and Hungary . 
The Republicans show no sign of relenting . 
`` This is serious business 
The Republicans contend that they can garner a majority in the 100-member Senate for a capital-gains tax cut . 
They accuse the Democrats of unfairly using Senate rules to erect a 60-vote hurdle . 
The two sides also traded accusations about the cost of the Packwood plan . 
Democrats asserted that the proposal , which also would create a new type of individual retirement account , was fraught with budget gimmickry that would lose billions of dollars in the long run . 
Under the proposed combination , Marsh & McLennan would gain a majority stake in Gradmann & Holler that would increase over time to the rest of the remaining 85 % . 
As part of the move , its affiliated U.S. company , International Components Technology Corp. , purchased a Mexican plant formerly belonging to KSI Disc Products Inc . 
Together with two existing plants in the U.S. , Furukawa said it will expand its current local monthly production of memory disks to 1.4 million sheets from 800,000 . 
PRIMERICA Corp. , New York , raised its quarterly 14 % to eight cents a share , from seven cents , payable Nov. 24 to stock of record Nov. 6 . 
The computer maker said net jumped to $ 87 million , or $ 2.02 a share , from $ 58 million , or $ 1.40 a share , a year earlier . 
Net for the nine months was $ 254 million , or $ 5.94 a share , up 56 % from $ 163 million , or $ 4.06 a share , a year earlier . 
During the third quarter , Compaq purchased a former Wang Laboratories manufacturing facility in Stirling , Scotland , which will be used for international service and repair operations . 
Mr. Taylor , 45 years old , succeeds Robert D. Kilpatrick , 64 , who is retiring , as reported earlier . 
Calgon Carbon Corp. said it will build a $ 40 million plant for producing granular activated carbon . 
Michael Deaver , the former White House aide , has become the most recent addition to the teeming ranks of fallen politicians and officials earning their way as lobbyists and consultants here . 
Surviving scandal has become a rite of political passage at a time when a glut of scandal has blunted this town 's sensibility . 
Let the president demand strict new ethics rules : With four sitting House members accused of sexual misdeeds , amid the unfolding HUD scandal and after the Wright debacle , `` people are slightly dulled by scandal , '' says political humorist Art Buchwald . 
But many have . 
For there is an emerging protocol -- indeed , an etiquette -- to it . 
There are few mementos of his days as White House deputy chief of staff and confidant of Ronald and Nancy Reagan . 
The former $ 3 million-a-year lobbyist now frequents shelters for the homeless and devotes a third of his time counseling other recovering alcoholics . 
One sign of Mr. Deaver 's renaissance : an appearance on ABC 's `` Nightline '' for a show on pack journalism . 
But it does n't always work so smoothly . 
He is now in solo law practice in Washington , but his fees have been meager and he failed in efforts to win a chunk of his ex-wife 's royalties on her tell-all book . 
Mr. Fedders is philosophical about his travails . 
`` The word surrender has a precise psychoanalytic meaning . 
My universe has changed . 
My universe has changed . I 'm enjoying my life and who I am today . 
Nobody proved that more masterfully than Mr. Coelho , the former Democratic majority whip . 
Among the glitterati who turned out in bipartisan black-tie force to benefit the Coelho Epilepsy Fund last month were Sen. Robert Dole , Rep. Newt Gingrich , and other kingpins of Congress . 
Male scandal victims invariably fare better . 
Anne Burford , the former EPA chief who resigned under fire in 1983 during a flap with Congress , was kayoed in the confrontation , even though she was never charged with official wrondgoing . 
She worked part-time as a consultant and wrote a book , but never restarted her high-powered legal career . 
`` I cut my losses and ran , '' she says , from her new home in Colorado , where she is busy remodeling . 
Mrs. Burford remains bitter over the overwhelming legal expenses involved in clearing her name . 
Another former EPA official , Rita Lavelle , is still struggling after her conviction in 1983 on perjury charges . 
`` There 's nothing she could do to bring herself back to where she was , '' says her lawyer , James Bierbower . 
Another former EPA official , Rita Lavelle , is still struggling after her conviction in 1983 on perjury charges . Anne Burford , the former EPA chief who resigned under fire in 1983 during a flap with Congress , was kayoed in the confrontation , even though she was never charged with official wrondgoing . No book contracts have been dangled before Deborah Gore Dean , the reigning queen of the HUD scandal . 
Another former EPA official , Rita Lavelle , is still struggling after her conviction in 1983 on perjury charges . Anne Burford , the former EPA chief who resigned under fire in 1983 during a flap with Congress , was kayoed in the confrontation , even though she was never charged with official wrondgoing . No book contracts have been dangled before Deborah Gore Dean , the reigning queen of the HUD scandal . Donna Rice of Gary Hart fame failed to obtain a book contract and lost her modeling contract for `` No Excuses '' jeans . 
Rita Jenrette , the former wife of Abscam-indicted Rep. John Jenrette , has yet to hit it big in Hollywood , although with roles in such movies as `` Zombie Island Massacre '' and `` Aunt Ida 's Bikini Shop , '' she is doing a lot better than her former husband . 
Central figures -- such as Richard Nixon -- usually fare better than those with supporting roles . 
During the televised Iran-Contra hearings , Mr. North came off as a patriot from central casting . 
Mr. North remains in heavy demand as a speaker , for fees reported in the $ 20,000 range . 
Sex scandals make people look careless and silly , and one of the worst sins in Washington is to be laughed at . 
Former Rep. Robert Bauman , a Maryland Republican who lost his seat in 1980 after he was caught soliciting sex from a 16-year-old boy , has never regained his professional footing as a lawyer . 
Mr. Bauman , a conservative , says he was deserted by the right wing . 
If the political establishment is reluctant to forgive sexual misadventures , the private sector sometimes will . 
John Tower was accused of womanizing and boozing during his unsuccessful bid to win confirmation as secretary of defense earlier this year . 
When all else fails , Gucci Gulch -- the fabled halls of the Capitol inhabited by lobbyists and their imported shoes -- offers a welcome environment for fallen officials . 
Some become pseudo-lobbyists . 
John Mack promptly quit his job last spring as an aide to Speaker Wright amid public outrage over Mr. Mack 's violent attack on a young woman when he was 19 years old . 
After a few weeks in seclusion , Mr. Mack opened a consulting firm , but not to enable him to directly lobby 
Other scandal survivors are sometimes the best source of solace . 
Raymond Donovan , the New Jersey construction executive who was forced to resign as labor secretary and indicted in 1985 , only to be acquitted of fraud charges , often calls other scandal-tossed public figures to offer a sympathetic ear . 
Even though the U.S. also has supported Canadian membership , it has n't been a Washington priority . 
Some Canadian political commentators have opposed Canada 's joining what they see as a U.S.-dominated organization . 
Canada , at times , could be an awkward OAS partner for the U.S. if its United Nations voting record is an indication . 
In U.N. General Assembly votes last year , Canada voted the same as the U.S. only 63 % of the time . 
Larry Birns , director of the Washington-based Council on Hemispheric Affairs , a liberal research group , said that Latin American countries would be `` profoundly disappointed '' if Canada were to follow the U.S. lead in the OAS . 
The OAS , which tries to promote peace and economic development within the Americas , is attempting to find a settlement of the current Panama political crisis . 
As a fan of older movies from the 1920s on , I do not find modern comedies contain violence , sex and foul language to any greater degree than other recent movies . 
Similarly , one of the most popular comedy genres of the 1930s and '40s was the `` murder mystery\/comedy . '' 
Further , I think Mr. Knight made a poor choice in picking `` A Fish Called Wanda '' as an example of the deplorable state of modern comedy movies . 
The specific scene he mentions in which pet dogs are crushed is somewhat reminiscent of the continual plights that befall the coyote in the old Warner Bros . `` Road Runner '' cartoons . 
There is no slow-motion close-up , blood-and-guts portrayal of the animal 's demise . The specific scene he mentions in which pet dogs are crushed is somewhat reminiscent of the continual plights that befall the coyote in the old Warner Bros . `` Road Runner '' cartoons . 
I will be the first to agree that there is much to be found wrong with modern movie making . 
Many modern scriptwriters seem to be incapable of writing drama , or anything else , without foul-mouthed cursing . 
Rochester Telephone Corp. said it agreed to buy Viroqua Telephone Co. of Viroqua , Wis . 
The OECD said that most of the improvement occurred in the second half of last year 
ALAMCO Inc. said its board has approved a 1-for-10 reverse stock split . 
The Clarksburg , W.Va. , producer of gas and oil , said it wants shareholders to approve the split because it would `` enhance the marketability '' and trading of the stock . 
Manufacturers ' shipments rose 0.3 % in August following two months of declines . 
Burmah , which has a strong market position supplying marine lubricants and metal-working fluids in Poland , described the joint venture as `` fairly small . '' 
Du Pont , unlike companies hurt badly by sharp price declines for basic chemicals and plastics , is benefiting from its broad range of businesses . 
The Wilmington , Del. , company reported net of $ 547 million , or $ 2.36 a share , which was in line with Wall Street estimates . 
The dividend increase was Du Pont 's second this year , an affirmation of statements by top executives that they intend to increase rewards to shareholders . 
The largest beneficiary will be Seagram Co. , which owns about 23 % of Du Pont . 
A spokesman for Seagram , the Montreal wine and spirits concern controlled by the Bronfman family , said the company will post additional pretax profit of about $ 33 million a year because of the additional Du Pont dividends . Du Pont also announced plans for a 3-for-1 stock split , although the initial higher dividend will be paid on pre-split shares . 
Du Pont 's stock rose $ 2.50 a share to close at $ 117.375 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday . 
Leading the gains for Du Pont in the latest quarter was its industrial products segment , where profit soared to $ 155 million from $ 99 million a year earlier . 
James Fallon , a New Providence , N.J. , marketing consultant to the chemicals industry , says Du Pont still holds an edge in making the pigment because the company was `` first in with the technology '' to lower costs . 
In the diversifed businesses segment , which includes herbicides , profit grew to $ 64 million from $ 27 million . 
Two segments posted lower earnings for the quarter . 
The increased dividend will be paid Dec. 14 to holders of record Nov. 15 . 
American Medical International Inc. was dropped from the health care providers industry group of the Dow Jones Equity Market Index . 
French President Francois Mitterrand , European Community Commission President Jacques Delors , Spanish Prime Minister Felipe Gonzalez and others have begun linking the rapid changes in the East to the need to speed up changes in the West . 
`` The only response to the challenge being presented to us by the East , '' Mr. Mitterrand told the European Parliament in Strasbourg yesterday , `` is to reinforce and accelerate the union and cohesion of the European Community . '' 
One basis for linking change in the East and change in the West is the notion that integrating 110 million Eastern Europeans with 320 million Western Europeans is primarily the task of Europeans , despite the U.S. 's obvious strategic and economic interest . 
A reintegrated Europe implies big changes in 40-year-old military and economic policies . 
In part , this division is dictated by economics 
In part , this division is dictated by economics : West Germany is a net exporter of capital while the U.S. is n't . 
`` We need a Western Ostpolitik , '' says John Roper , of the Royal Institute of International Affairs in London , referring to West Germany 's longstanding policy of a diplomatic opening to the East . 
`` For Poland and Hungary we need to think about a stick-and-carrot economic approach that would force them to price things realistically in return for removing all our tariff barriers . '' 
The French analysis goes further . 
He adds that with communism collapsing and Mr. Gorbachev scrambling to rejuvenate the Soviet economy , `` Our interest lies in a controlled transformation , a contained nuclear reaction , so we need to help him , and not just with words . '' 
Thierry de Montbrial , director of the French Institutue for International Relations in Paris , says it is n't clear what , exactly , West Germany wants . 
Any push for a Gorbachev vision of a `` common European home , '' implying the eventual dissolution of the EC , a Soviet-German partnership and the withdrawal of U.S. forces , `` would be a very , very serious problem , '' he says . 
While many commentators , particularly French ones , worry that hasty and emotional reaction to the changes in the East might lead to dangerous pressures for a denuclearized Europe or the speeded-up withdrawal of American troops , Mr. Roper in London sees a more positive scenario . 
`` There seems to be a message from Moscow there 's a deal on offer , '' he says . 
In return , the U.K. and France could keep their nuclear weapons . `` There seems to be a message from Moscow there 's a deal on offer , '' he says . `` They want reassurance we wo n't try to undermine or destroy the Warsaw Pact ... . 
The so-called poison pill took effect Aug. 9 pending ratification by holders . 
Rights attached to the company 's common shares were issued that are triggered if a hostile bidder acquires more than 20 % of the shares outstanding . 
Separately , Dominion Textile posted net income of 4.7 million Canadian dollars -LRB- $ 4 million -RRB- , or 12 Canadian cents a share , for the fiscal-first quarter ended Sept. 30 . 
Separately , Dominion Textile posted net income of 4.7 million Canadian dollars -LRB- $ 4 million -RRB- , or 12 Canadian cents a share , for the fiscal-first quarter ended Sept. 30 . The company had a net loss of C$ 2.3 million , or 14 Canadian cents a share , a year ago . 
Howell , a Port Washington , N.Y. , construction concern , was established in 1891 . 
Mr. Schwarz , 52 years old , will succeed Daniel P. Davison Feb. 1 , soon after Mr. Davison reaches the company 's mandatory retirement age of 65 . 
But Mr. Schwarz welcomes the competition in U.S. Trust 's flagship businesses , calling it `` flattery . '' 
Mr. Schwarz says the competition `` broadens the base of opportunity for us . '' 
Other firms `` are dealing with the masses . 
`` We have always taken smaller accounts , but now we are looking for smaller accounts that will grow , '' Mr. Schwarz says . 
`` Our bread and butter is still the $ 2 million to $ 20 million account , '' he says . 
In this year 's third quarter , for example , net was $ 10.5 million , or $ 1.05 a share , compared with $ 10.3 million , or $ 1.02 a share , a year earlier . 
Mr. Schwarz 's great-grandfather founded the New York toy store F.A.O. Schwarz , but his family no longer has ties to the company . 
It will include Messrs. Schwarz and Maurer . 
Donald M. Roberts , 54 , treasurer , and Frederick S. Wonham , 58 , who takes responsibility for the funds-service group , were named vice chairmen and will serve in the office of the chairman . 
In a statement , Scott McNealy , Sun 's chief executive officer , said the company 's performance was hampered by problems tied to the introduction of a major new family of computers in April . 
Mr. Rogers , 60 years old , succeeds J.V. White , 64 , who will remain chairman and chairman of the executive committee . 
Castle Harlan Inc. , a New York merchant bank , and Quantum Fund said they would acquire the assets for a combination of cash and the assumption of certain of Sharon 's liabilities . 
Castle Harlan and Quantum said the plan is expected to be filed within 60 days with the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Pittsburgh . 
Mr. Posner resigned as president and chief executive officer of Sharon in April 1988 . 
Executives at Sharon declined to comment on the proposal . 
In a move apparently aimed at heading off new punitive legislation , Mr. Deng sent an indirect signal to Washington via T.D. Lee , a Columbia University physicist who met Mr. Deng and other Chinese leaders in Beijing last month . 
The Chinese leader , Mr. Lee informed Mr. Bush , expressed some regret for what had happened in Beijing and conceded that China 's officials bore some responsibility . 
Mr. Lee says Mr. Deng told him : `` We should not mind those who participated in demonstrations , signed anti-government materials and went on hunger strikes . '' 
Mr. Deng added , says Mr. Lee , that `` we really made mistakes . 
But , he adds , `` I was not acting as a messenger . '' 
He says that the Chinese never asked him to convey their statements to President Bush , but that the White House spontaneously invited him to do so . 
According to U.S. sources in Beijing , the administration hopes Mr. Deng 's fairly conciliatory comments will prod Congress to be cautious about further sanctions against Beijing . 
Given China 's far-from-conciliatory statements to its own people , Mr. Bush may be unable to prevent new sanctions . 
Beijing officials have said they will step up the campaign of arrests and intimidation against those who participated in the demonstrations . 
Sentences have been stiff . 
Nor has Beijing hinted to its citizens that it will publish the identities of those killed . 
So far , the victims are officially considered evil-doers , and their families receive no compensation . 
What 's more , much of China 's official rhetoric is hostile to the U.S. . 
It will probably be attached to a State Department authorization bill , which Mr. Bush is n't expected to veto . 
Codifying those sanctions could prompt Chinese retaliation . 
`` If the two sides are n't careful , U.S.-China ties could spin downward , out of control , '' says a U.S. official in Beijing . 
A genetically engineered version of the human protein developed by Amgen Corp. of Thousand Oaks , Calif. , recently has been marketed by the Ortho Pharmaceuticals division of Johnson & Johnson . 
They then began donating blood twice a week , receiving an EPO injection each time . 
The EPO-treated patients donated an average of 5.4 units of blood each compared with only 4.1 units donated by a similar group of surgical patients who received a placebo injection . 
Pension reform was its main thrust . 
Labor and business leaders , quoted at the White House Rose Garden rites , hailed its provisions for insuring corporate pension benefits . 
The IRA 's conception is murky . 
In 1972 , then Treasury Secretary George Shultz , with the key support of Sen. Carl Curtis , sought some form of pensions for the uncovered . 
So they opted for IRA , naming it after Ira Cohen , a brilliant IRS actuary who helped them . 
IRA rules have been changed over the years . 
One in 1981 raised to $ 2,000 a year from $ 1,500 the amount a person could put , tax-deductible , into the tax-deferred accounts and widened coverage to people under employer retirement plans . 
The measure , which will take effect next Wednesday , will create a two-tier exchange rate . 
The current ruble rate has long been out of line with the black market . 
As Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev has opened up the country to foreign trade , the discrepancy has become ever greater . 
Even at such rates , black marketeers have been able to make big profits because of the dire shortage of consumer goods here . 
They use dollars to buy Western items such as video recorders and personal computers and then sell them at a huge mark-up . 
The going rate for a small personal computer that costs about $ 2,000 in the West is anywhere from 50,000 to 100,000 rubles . 
Rumors of an impending devaluation have been circulating in Moscow for weeks , but the size of the cut took many Western bankers by surprise . 
Unless other rules are changed , the devaluation could cause difficulties for the people it is primarily meant to help : Soviets who travel abroad . 
A Kodak spokesman declined to disclose the potential value of the contract , which is still in negotiation . 
This year is the 75th anniversary of the Federal Reserve System , and some members of Congress think it 's time to take a fresh look at the nation 's central bank . 
The regional Federal Reserve Bank setup , for instance , may be out of date . 
In earlier years it may have seemed reasonable to give Richmond , Va. , a bank and allow Los Angeles only a branch of the San Francisco bank , but times have changed . 
Some of the would-be reformers , however , want to restore an arrangement we once had -- or , at least , part of it . 
Carter Glass , a former treasury secretary who was then back in Congress , probably influenced the decision . 
Times have changed . 
Rep. Byron Dorgan -LRB- D. , N.D . -RRB- has introduced a bill in Congress , co-sponsored by Rep. Lee Hamilton -LRB- D. , Ind. -RRB- , that would put the treasury secretary back on the board . 
Nicholas Brady , the incumbent treasury secretary , is of course aware of the proposal , and he does n't like it much . 
He was , in fact , taking an especially keen interest in board matters even before he went to the treasury . 
This recommendation might have encouraged a turf-hungry bureaucrat to try to expand his power , but so far Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan has n't made a pitch for the job . 
The Fed has plenty of responsibilities in times of market turmoil and in 1987 and again in 1989 it appears to have handled them well . 
In recent weeks , moreover , Mr. Brady has joined other administration officials in trying to urge the Fed toward lower interest rates . 
The urging admittedly has been gentle . 
At least some economists , of course , would argue that inflation deserves a lot of emphasis . 
The treasury can do something on its own , but to have any hope of success it needs help from the Fed . 
Now , sterilized intervention may have some effect . 
But it 's generally accepted that sterilized intervention has little or no lasting impact on currency values . 
After August the Fed may have stopped sterilizing , but it 's hard to see much impact on the dollar . 
Earlier this year , Martin Feldstein , president of the National Bureau of Economic Research , argued forcefully that a government that wants steady , stable exchange rates might try some steady stable economic policies . 
In fact , however , Mr. Reagan 's casual debasement of the office he so recently held raises issues about which Americans can actually do something . 
Those events continue to move at a rate , and in a direction , which leave informed commentary -- let alone policy -- far in their wake . 
Earlier this week , Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard A. Shevardnadze confessed that the U.S.S.R. ignored universal human values by invading Afghanistan and , to put it bluntly , `` engaged in a violation of the ABM Treaty '' by building its radar station at Krasnoyarsk . 
Earlier this week , Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard A. Shevardnadze confessed that the U.S.S.R. ignored universal human values by invading Afghanistan and , to put it bluntly , `` engaged in a violation of the ABM Treaty '' by building its radar station at Krasnoyarsk . Hungary is no longer a `` Socialist Peoples '' republic , the Communist Party no longer has automatic delegates in the U.S.S.R. 's Congress of Peoples Deputies and Egon Krenz was not backed unanimously by his fellow party functionaries when he took over as East Germany 's new maximum leader . 
It has been a well-paid transaction , this bartering away of the prestige of the republic 's highest office . 
All of which has enabled those of us in Washington who enjoy wallowing in such things to go into high public dudgeon , as Mr. Apple and I did the other night on ABC 's `` Nightline . '' 
Punching away , we raised what I still think were all the right issues and landed more than one hard blow , but at the end of the affair , there was just the tiniest nagging worry that we had been aiming at the wrong target . 
As one of his defenders so aptly put it , President Reagan was simply doing what he had always done before his election -LRB- and some would say thereafter as well -RRB- . 
Primarily because there 's more to the matter than Ronald Reagan 's personal values , or lack of them . 
Selling the presidency for a mess of pottage is not so much a devaluation from the norm of public life today as it is a reflection of the disintegration of public standards . 
There are those who say that this is nothing new , that America has always suffered from a bad case of schizophrenia when it comes to the dichotomy between what is professed and what is practiced . 
There is evidence to support that view . 
But if it was the national disease in 1906 , it is today the national commonplace . 
If there is no law against it , do it . 
If there is no law against it , do it . If the law leaves loopholes , use them . 
If there is no law against it , do it . If the law leaves loopholes , use them . If there is no moral prohibition that expressly forbids it , full speed ahead . And if you are caught or if people complain , simply argue that `` everyone does it '' or `` no one said I should n't '' and brazen it out . 
-LRB- See , for instance , Jim Bakker 's remarks upon being sentenced to prison this Tuesday for defrauding the faithful . -RRB- As a last recourse , when all else has failed and you are pinned , apologize for having disappointed those who trusted you but deny having actually done anything wrong . 
Consider the troubling dissonance between Mr. Shevardnadze 's speech of confession this week and the hang-tough defense of everyone concerned with the Iran-Contra affair . 
The Soviet foreign minister publicly concedes that his government `` violated norms of behavior '' in Afghanistan and just plain lied about the radar station . 
That is the key to the current `` national disease . '' 
No one seems willing to hold anyone in public life to a standard higher than the narrowest construction of the law . 
`` You are mad because he 's making so much money , '' say President Reagan 's defenders . 
But there is no defense at all for the ethos of the 1980s . 
The board said Mr. Drabinsky and Vice Chairman Myron Gottlieb are negotiating financing before offering C$ 16.40 a share to acquire all of Cineplex 's shares outstanding . 
Ms. Kolber said the committee had received other bids . 
She declined to identify other bidders but said Mr. Drabinsky 's offer `` is all cash , and it 's for all of the company . '' 
`` All this has really established is that MCA and the Bronfmans have agreed on a price at which they can be bought out , '' said Jeffery Logsdon , an analyst with Crowell , Weedon in Los Angeles . 
Mr. Drabinsky , who would have had the right to vote those shares for two years , said the purchase , subsequently rejected by regulators , was aimed at consolidating his control of the company . 
Cineplex shareholders responded coolly to yesterday 's announcement . 
In trading on the New York Stock Exchange , Cineplex closed at $ 11 , down 25 cents , with more than a million shares changing hands . 
`` Where 's the bid ? '' asked Pierre Panet-Raymond , an analyst and broker with Toronto securities dealer McDermid St. Lawrence Ltd . 
Hoechst AG 's Chairman Wolfgang Hilger said the company wants to have a substitute product to completely replace ozone-damaging chlorofluorocarbons by 1995 . 
Coors is hoping to become one of the first companies to distribute bottled water nationwide . 
Perrier , sold by Perrier Group of America , a unit of Source Perrier S.A. of Paris , and Evian , sold by a U.S. unit BSN of France , are distributed to urban areas nationally , but are less available in rural communities . 
The company said the water will be called Coors Rocky Mountain Sparkling Water and will come from the same mountain spring as water used in Coors beer . 
The U.S. , in a far-reaching plan submitted to the Geneva meeting Tuesday , proposed curbing price support subsidies within 10 years and eliminating export subsidies within five years . 
But the EC reacted defiantly , arguing that the proposal 's main aim is to destroy the Common Agricultural Policy , the EC 's $ 28 billion-a-year price support program . 
EC officials say they are irked that the U.S. has set a specific timetable and is insisting on the `` elimination '' of export subsides , not just reduction . 
U.S. Deputy Trade Representative Jules Katz replied that the proposal was entirely consistent with the April accord . 
The U.S. proposal also was criticized by food-importing developing countries , who said that the U.S. made no special allowances for poor nations . 
The U.S. administration said its plan would allow considerable flexibility in determining how and when the free-trade goals would be achieved . 
The new U.S. package also says countries could temporarily raise tariffs on certain products if they experience an unusually heavy volume of imports . 
Bell Atlantic Corp. said it agreed definitively to acquire one of Control Data Corp. 's computer-maintenance businesses . 
Russell Miller 's `` Bare-Faced Messiah : The True Story of L. Ron Hubbard '' is a biography of the founder of the Church of Scientology . Mr. Hubbard , who died in 1986 , bequeathed the copyrights on his writings to his church , which licensed them to New Era Publications , a Danish corporation . 
In 1988 New Era sought a permanent injunction to restrain Henry Holt & Co. from publishing `` Bare-Faced Messiah '' on the ground that Mr. Miller 's quotations from Mr. Hubbard infringed the copyrights . 
District Court Judge Pierre Leval denied the injunction on the ground that New Era had failed to make its claim within a reasonable time -- the doctrine lawyers call `` laches . '' 
Verbatim quotation , the judge believed , was justified in order to prove points the author had asserted about Mr. Hubbard -- mendacity , bigotry , paranoia and other unlovely traits that could not be persuasively demonstrated without use of Mr. Hubbard 's own words . 
`` The biographer\/critic , '' Judge Leval wrote , `` should not be required simply to express ... conclusions without defending them by example . 
But Judge Leval felt constrained by an earlier decision of the Second Circuit Court forbidding a biographer of J.D. Salinger to quote from Mr. Salinger 's personal letters . 
He distinguished the two cases 
Still the Salinger decision created a strong presumption against fair use of unpublished materials . 
The case went on appeal to the Second Circuit . 
In a decision in April of this year , Judge Roger Miner , joined by Judge Frank Altimari , agreed on denying the injunction and did not doubt that `` Bare-Faced Messiah '' was a serious work but rejected Judge Leval 's argument that the public interest in scholarship could outweigh the sanctity of copyright . 
`` We conclude , '' the two judges wrote , `` that laches is the sole bar to the issuance of an injunction . '' 
This was too much for James Oakes , the court 's chief judge . 
In a powerful separate opinion , Judge Oakes further distinguished the Salinger case by pointing out that a living person , like Mr. Salinger , had privacy rights that did not apply to a dead man , like Mr. Hubbard . 
`` I thought that Salinger might by being taken in another factual context come back to haunt us . 
Judges Oakes and Leval understand the requirements of historical scholarship . 
Yet at the moment they are the judges who are making the law . 
As matters stand , the Salinger ruling , torn from context and broadly construed , is controlling . 
The `` Bare-Faced Messiah '' decision strikes a blow against the whole historical enterprise . 
As a public figure , Mr. Masson had to prove malice and , as proof of malice , Mr. Masson contended that defamatory quotations ascribed to him by Ms. Malcolm were in fact fabricated . 
In his eloquent dissent , Judge Alex Kozinski observed that when a writer uses quotation marks in reporting what someone has said , the reader assumes that these are the speaker 's precise words or at least his words purged of `` uh '' and `` you know '' and grammatical error . 
Ms. Malcolm , for example , wrote that Mr. Masson described himself as `` the greatest analyst who ever lived . '' 
No such statement appears on the tapes . 
Ms. Malcolm had Mr. Masson describing himself as `` an intellectual gigolo . '' 
Again , no such statement appears on the tapes . 
The majority decision contended that the phrase was a rational interpretation of Mr. Masson 's description of himself as a `` private asset but a public liability '' to Anna Freud and that in any case it was not defamatory . 
These were only two of a series of fabrications that had , in Judge Kozinski 's words , the cumulative effect of making Mr. Masson `` appear more arrogant , less sensitive , shallower , more self-aggrandizing , and less in touch with reality than he appears from his own statements . '' 
But it is not Janet Malcolm who calls him such 
But it is not Janet Malcolm who calls him such : his own words reveal this psychological profile . '' 
`` There is one sacred rule of journalism , '' John Hersey has said . 
`` The writer must not invent . '' 
Should the green light Judges Alarcon and Hall have given to the fabrication of quotations become standard practice , it will notably reduce the value of journalism for historians -- and for citizens . 
As Judge Kozinski put it : `` To invoke the right to deliberately distort what someone else has said is to assert the right to lie in print ... . 
Legal controversies in America have a way of assuming a symbolic significance far exceeding what is involved in the particular case . 
It has always been so . 
In the 1920s , a young schoolteacher , John T. Scopes , volunteered to be a guinea pig in a test case sponsored by the American Civil Liberties Union to challenge a ban on the teaching of evolution imposed by the Tennessee Legislature . 
The result was a world-famous trial exposing profound cultural conflicts in American life between the `` smart set , '' whose spokesman was H.L. Mencken , and the religious fundamentalists , whom Mencken derided as benighted primitives . 
So it was with the Hiss case a generation later , when Alger Hiss became a lightning rod for the anxieties of the Cold War and conflicting attitudes toward the New Deal he had served . 
And so it seems to be with the case of Elizabeth Morgan , the Washington , D.C. , plastic surgeon jailed in a child custody case for refusing to reveal the whereabouts of her daughter . 
It is what lawyers call `` fact intensive . '' 
Instead , it turns on the disputed and elusive facts of `` who did what to whom . '' 
It is difficult , if not impossible , for anyone who has not pored over the thousands of pages of court pleadings and transcripts to have a worthwhile opinion on the underlying merits of the controversy . 
So we must look elsewhere for an explanation of the unusual power this case has exerted over the minds of many , not just in Washington but elsewhere in the country and even the world . 
But although Thurber did so gently and lightheartedly , many of Dr. Morgan 's supporters have taken Thurber 's memorable title `` The Male Animal '' quite literally . 
A second theme is the undercurrent of social class and race in the public reaction to the Morgan case . 
Dr. Morgan is a highly educated white professional who attended some of the `` best '' schools . 
Finally , the case of Dr. Morgan gave Congress an opportunity to act with unaccustomed decisiveness and to engage in one of its favorite pastimes -- bashing the District of Columbia government . 
The local government is discredited in the eyes of many residents for a variety of reasons , and congressmen read the same newspapers and watch the same TV newscasts as other people in the area do . 
The Morgan case thus tells us much more about the current state of sex , class , race and politics in our society than it does about the facts of Dr. Morgan 's particular situation . 
The proposal , however , was immediately rebuffed by Arby 's parent , DWG Corp . 
Stevric 's principals , Richard and Steven Buckley , said they led the acquisition group that acquired the Nathan 's Famous Inc. restaurant chain and subsequently served as the top officers of the company . 
GM closed down $ 1.875 at $ 44.875 in New York Stock Exchange trading yesterday . 
Earnings for GM common stock , reflecting the performance of GM 's core automotive operations , will be disclosed this morning . 
GM Class H , which represents a dividend interest in Hughes earnings , closed at $ 29 , up 25 cents in Big Board composite trading . 
In addition , GM 's North American vehicle production fell 8.4 % from a year ago , which hurt Delco Electronic 's earnings , a company spokesman said . 
In the nine months , GM Hughes net fell 6.6 % to $ 486.6 million , or $ 1.48 a share , from $ 521 million , or $ 1.58 a share . 
At GMAC , net dropped 3.1 % to $ 234.5 million from $ 241.9 million . 
At GMAC , net dropped 3.1 % to $ 234.5 million from $ 241.9 million . The finance unit attributed the decline to higher borrowing costs compared with a year earlier . 
At EDS , third-quarter profit jumped 16 % to a record $ 110.9 million , or 93 cents a share , from $ 95.9 million , or 79 cents a share . 
In the nine months , EDS earned $ 315.8 million , or $ 2.62 a share , up 13 % from $ 280.7 million , or $ 2.30 a share . 
Revenue rose 14 % to $ 4.03 billion from $ 3.54 billion . 
Revenue from non-GM accounts was 45 % of EDS 's total business in the latest nine months , compared with 40 % a year earlier . 
Geoffrey Kalmus , counsel to the official creditors committee , said that under the United Illuminating plan , unsecured creditors would be paid in full credits and interest of about $ 855 million , accrued before PS of New Hampshire 's Jan. 1988 filing for bankruptcy court protection . In addition , they would receive some $ 200 million in payments for interest since then . 
Mr. Kalmus said that by next July they would have accrued unpaid interest equal to $ 350 million . 
Under United Illuminating 's plan , a new holding company would be formed to own the two companies . 
PS of New Hampshire preferred holders also would get certain debentures and preferred stock . 
United Illuminating said the preferred holders total package would equal about 60 % of their claims . 
As previously reported , Northeast Utilities , Hartford , Conn. , Monday filed a bid it valued at $ 2.25 billion . 
The other bidders , New England Electric System , Westboro , Mass. , and PS of New Hampshire , did n't change the value of their bids , although PS of New Hampshire changed its rate proposal . 
The state has endorsed the New England Electric plan , which promises to limit rate increases to 4.8 % annually for seven years . 
United Illuminating also amended its rate plan . 
The bids and rate proposals generally assume the Seabrook nuclear power plant , which is completed , will go into operation . 
In New York Stock Exchange trading , PS of New Hampshire 's 17 1\/2 debenture due 2004 closed yesterday at $ 82.50 , up $ 2 . 
In a separate development , PS of New Hampshire gave 60 managers severance agreements that would pay one to three years ' salary if their jobs were changed or they were dismissed in the wake of a takeover . 
Richard Breeden had n't noticed that his new desk had just four telephone lines and one phone . 
But the lack of lines became painfully apparent . 
As the stock market lurched into a 190-point free fall on Oct. 13 , Mr. Breeden found himself scurrying around the sixth floor of the SEC -- from his desk , where the New York Stock Exchange was on an open line , to his assistant 's office , where the Commodity Futures Trading Commission was connected , to a third room , where a computer monitored market moves . 
It wo n't happen again . 
Now there are more lines connected to the chairman 's office , and the market-monitoring computer has been moved next to his desk . 
In an interview and in congressional testimony , he repeatedly points to the recent 190-point plunge in the Dow Jones Industrial Average -- the second-largest ever -- as evidence of the need for Congress to give the SEC the ability to better monitor leveraged buy-out loan activity by brokerage firms and to track big trades in the market . 
More broadly , he wants to `` modernize '' regulation by eliminating barriers between commercial and investment banking and by helping U.S. financial firms compete in the global market . 
Also unlike Mr. Ruder , Mr. Breeden appears to be in a position to get somewhere with his agenda . 
For instance , he has n't stated a clear position on high-risk , high-yield junk bonds , an area of growing concern as turmoil in the junk market spills over into stocks . 
Congress seems likely to let the new chairman have his way for a while . 
These days , Mr. Breeden is winning praise in Washington and on Wall Street for his behind-the-scenes role in monitoring the Friday-the-13th market plunge and the following Monday 's harrowing morning session . 
Not everyone has jumped on the Breeden bandwagon , however . 
Some in Washington contend that it 's too soon to tell whether Mr. Breeden will help or hinder the SEC . 
`` I do n't think this was a real test , '' says one congressional aide . 
For some at the SEC , an agency that covets its independence , Mr. Breeden may be too much of a Washington insider . 
They note that he has adorned his office with five photos of George Bush , one of them featuring the First Dog , Millie . 
But Mr. Breeden already has shown an eagerness to run the SEC his way . 
During the Monday market rebound , a New York exchange spokesman told Cable News Network viewers that the industrial average had turned down 70 points . 
Stunned , Mr. Breeden turned to his market-monitoring computer , which by then was next to his desk . 
SEC staffers soon determined that a widely watched stock-market service , Quotron , had miscalculated the industrial average . 
Congressmen raised the issue yesterday at a hearing . 
Mr. Breeden , not missing a chance to press his agenda , cited the earthquake . 
In a corner of the cavernous , new Nippon Convention Center sits Mazda Motor Corp. 's advanced-technology display . 
Here you can find Mitsubishi Motors Corp. displaying a `` live fish transporter , '' a truck akin to an aquarium on wheels , and Nissan Motor Co. with its `` keyless '' Boga , whose doors unlock upon recognizing the owner 's fingerprints . 
Even the biggest auto shows in the U.S. are largely regional affairs , but the Tokyo show is international . 
Virtually every automotive analyst in New York showed up . 
Virtually every automotive analyst in New York showed up . Detroit-to-Tokyo flights were booked solid this week as Motor City executives , including Ford Motor Co. Chairman Donald E. Petersen and Chrysler Corp. Vice Chairman Gerald Greenwald , flocked to see the future . 
The hottest displays were items that insulate passengers from bumps , potholes and other rigors of the road . 
These `` active suspension systems '' electronically sense road conditions and adjust a car 's ride . 
Nissan , in a 34-page tract , modestly compares its `` hydraulic active suspension '' to a cheetah , and equates the various parts to the animal 's heart , brain , nerves and blood vessels . 
But drivers in the U.S. must wait 
In the engine department , several companies displayed experimental models that within a decade could provide power equal to today 's engines and yet take up only half the space , allowing for shorter hoods . 
There 's plenty of whimsy here , but it is n't always clear whether it 's intentional . 
But the sponsors have an explanation 
Japanese auto makers are known for coming up with funny names , but this year the practice seems to have reached a new high -- or low . 
Honda has a tiny motorcycle called the Monkey , and a slightly larger cousin , the Gorilla . 
Mitsubishi has a futuristic delivery truck called the Guppy . 
Mazda has the Bongo truck and , under its Autozam nameplate , a `` microvan '' called the Scrum . 
But the court jester appears to be Japan 's smallest car maker , Daihatsu Motor Co . 
The jokes are n't just on the Japanese , though . 
Foreign auto makers are taking the Tokyo Motor Show more seriously than ever . 
AB Volvo invites passers-by to play `` the role of the test dummy '' by hopping in a car that simulates a crash to show just how its seat-belt tightener works . 
Ford officials , for example , crowed about their first-ever Tokyo Grand Prix racing victory . 
Mr. Jordan of GM , meanwhile , still criticizes Japanese styling . 
This is a classic example of the old saying , `` The whole is greater than the sum of its parts . '' 
It 's ridiculous for a family with taxable income of $ 50,000 to pay the same 28 % incremental tax rate as a family with taxable income of $ 250,000 . 
Mr. Ireland said current demand for used aircraft is strong , partly because surging orders for new aircraft have lengthened waiting lists . 
Under its revised fleet plan , PWA said it will also increase its existing fleet of eight Boeing 767-300ER aircraft to 18 by 1994 , and add four more Boeing 747-400s by 1994 to the two units that it previously planned to add by next year . 
`` I do n't see this as a debt reduction exercise . 
This British banking and financial-services group 's investment-banking arm , Barclays de Zoete Wedd Group , announced the following appointments at its merchant-banking subsidiary Barclays de Zoete Wedd Ltd . 
Graham Pimlott , 40 , was named to the new post of chief executive officer of the merchant-banking corporate-finance division . 
The recent bids for United and American Airlines have led Congress to move with supersonic speed to protect incumbent airline managements . 
The House is scheduled to vote today on an anti-airline-takeover bill that would block , for up to 50 days , any bid for 15 % or more of a U.S. airline , even a straight cash purchase . 
Transportation Secretary Sam Skinner , who earlier fueled the anti-takeover fires with his quasi-xenophobic attacks on foreign investment in U.S. carriers , now says the bill would further disturb the jittery capital markets . 
Texas Rep. Steve Bartlett , who has 40,000 American Airlines workers in his district , says the bill is `` good politics , but bad law . '' 
Mr. Greenspan said he and other Fed governors endorse a bill by Rep. Stephen Neal -LRB- D. , N.C. -RRB- that would require the Fed to pursue policies aimed at eliminating inflation within five years . 
`` What seem to be interpreted as great conflicts are relatively minor issues of tactics , '' he said . 
Rep. Neal 's bill originally called on the Fed to reduce the inflation rate by one percentage point a year for five years and to maintain a zero inflation rate thereafter . 
`` I 'm ecstatic about the change , '' said Mr. Vila , whose new syndicated program is called `` Home Again with Bob Vila . '' 
`` Public TV is in fantasy land , '' he said . 
`` Last season , we did a story that involved spending $ 700,000 in converting a two-family house into a bed and breakfast . '' 
While Sears would n't comment on the brouhaha over Mr. Vila 's commercial endorsements , it appears to be building a fence around Mr. Vila 's affections . 
His contract makes him `` exclusive '' spokesman for Sears 's home improvement marketing campaigns . 
The only other endorsement permitted by the contract involves a series of Time-Life home improvement and repair books . 
His other agreements to promote products have expired . 
Little matter for Mr. Vila , who complains that `` public TV never paid me more than $ 40,000 a year . '' 
But they are already objecting to , among other things , a plan to give more weight to cost-benefit considerations in evaluating pesticides . 
`` It 's a tremendous disappointment , '' said Janet Hathaway , an attorney with the Natural Resources Defense Council . 
The principles would give the Environmental Protection Agency increased authority and flexibility in regulating pesticides , with the aim of enabling the agency to move more quickly . 
Moves to accelerate the removal of dangerous pesticides gained new impetus during this year 's Alar scare , when the EPA was harshly criticized for failing to yank the possible carcinogen , a growth regulator used to make apples redder and crunchier . 
-- Give the EPA added discretion to set `` negligible risk '' levels for pesticide residues in processed food . 
The Dow Jones Industrial Average lost 5.94 points to 2653.28 in moderate trading . 
Long-term Treasury bonds rose slightly despite the arrival on the market of $ 4.52 billion in 30-year bonds offered by the Resolution Funding Corp. as part of the government 's bailout of the savings and loan industry . 
Yesterday 's sluggish action was in marked contrast to the rearing and plunging of stock prices Tuesday after the proposed buy-out of UAL Corp. once again collapsed . 
Although bond prices were n't as volatile on Tuesday trading as stock prices , traders nevertheless said action also was much slower yesterday in the Treasury market . 
Bond investors paid close attention to comments by Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan , who was testifying before a congressional hearing , but were n't able to extract many clues about the future course of the Fed 's monetary policy . 
Investors now are awaiting today 's release of the preliminary estimate of third-quarter gross national product . 
Stock prices slipped lower in moderate trading . 
Bond prices inched higher . 
The Treasury 's benchmark 30-year issue rose less than an eighth of a point , or less than $ 1.25 for each $ 1,000 of face amount . 
The dollar was virtually unchanged . 
A few years ago , I was on a panel of journalists that discussed the `` image '' of intercollegiate athletics for an audience of campus information directors and others . 
We scribblers quickly concurred that not only was the bad rep of big-time college sports richly earned , but also that it could be corrected . 
We scribblers quickly concurred that not only was the bad rep of big-time college sports richly earned , but also that it could be corrected . Competition could be maintained -- and stadiums probably would remain full -- if schedules were reduced and the games returned to the students , we said . 
`` I 'd love to see sports cut back , and so would a lot of my counterparts at other schools , but everybody 's afraid to make the first move , '' he confided . 
`` It 's like the U.S. and the Russians 
And so our institutions of higher learning lurch from scandal to scandal on gridiron and basketball court , while the casualties mount . 
Three new books make the point that one large price of the glittery college-sports show can be the integrity of the schools that stage it . 
The pick of the group is `` Payroll 
The pick of the group is `` Payroll '' ; it should be required reading for every college president . 
The school was the first , in 1987 , to receive the NCAA 's `` death penalty '' -- two years without football -- for repeated rules violations . 
Mr. Meyer 's personal style was illustrated by his pinning a $ 100 bill to a high-school bulletin board on which other coaches tacked their cards . 
Paying players at SMU was no casual operation . 
It involved the athletics director , two different football coaching staffs , and school trustees and governors -- just about everybody , it seemed , but Donald Shields , the university 's president . 
`` You stay out of it , '' author Whitford quotes Mr. Clements as saying . 
Mr. Whitford drew on voluminous news media coverage of the SMU scandal , and on a university internal investigation . 
Mr. Keteyian had to do most of his own digging on University of Nebraska football , which is , to date , high and dry as far as the NCAA is concerned . 
There are gratuitous references to supposed romantic liaisons between Husker players and a low-level female university employee . 
Still , the book produces more smoke than a smoldering sofa , along with a few flames , especially concerning the use of steroids . 
Dean Steinkuhler , a spectacularly bulked-up former lineman , confesses that he used 'em , and says other Huskers did too . 
It 's a mystery how this could have escaped the notice of Nebraska coaches . 
Bias 's coach , Lefty Driesell , ordered the room in which Bias died to be cleaned before the police could arrive -LRB- the order was n't carried out -RRB- , and the school 's athletics director issued false information about the academic standing of Bias and other players . 
Those , of course , were the responses of people with something to hide . 
Stores in upper-income neighborhoods , for instance , will carry high-priced wines , publications such as Vanity Fair , gourmet pasta sauces , oat bran cereals and Weight Watchers and Pritikin products . 
Stores in Hispanic areas will stock an assortment of Spanish-language magazines , Mexican cooking items and candies . 
V.H. Van Horn , National Convenience president and chief executive officer , said the move reflects the company 's realization that the industry 's poor performance stems from its failure to give customers what they want -- rather than from increasing competition from gasoline stations and 24-hour grocery stores . 
`` There are an increasing number of people out there who are time-poor , '' said Chris Vroom , retail analyst with Alex . Brown & Sons of Baltimore . 
Several months ago , it also added black health and beauty aids displays to many stores , a spokeswoman said . 
National Convenience said it has tested its new merchandise mix in 100 stores , with favorable results . 
The union called the strike in April after Pittston refused to sign the UMW 's national labor pact . 
In addition to the forecast , the company also said it is examining potential cost cuts and reductions in overhead . 
Yesterday , the spokeswoman said sales of Delmed products through the exclusive arrangement with National Medical accounted for 87 % of Delmed 's 1988 sales of $ 21.1 million . 
But the plan now is being `` reformulated , '' Delmed said , declining to provide most of the new terms of the combination . 
Said the spokeswoman : `` The whole structure has changed . 
Another option for Delmed , the company said , is that it could sell its plant in Ogden , Utah . 
But July 5 , a thunderstorm in Wilmington , Del. , caused Shellpot Creek to rise 15 feet , pouring 1.3 million gallons of water into basement vaults . 
`` We kind of got caught between bureaucracies , '' says President William F. Brooks Jr . 
The Philadelphia Fed says it is merely an `` agent '' for coins , responsible only for storage and distribution . 
`` We issue paper money 
`` We issue paper money ; we destroy paper money , '' says Jane Hinkle , a Philadelphia Fed spokeswoman . 
For eight hours a day for the past two weeks , in aggregates of as much as 27,000 pounds -LRB- equaling $ 20,000 in pennies -RRB- , Coin Wrap has been pouring money into a cement-mixing truck . 
A giant heater , working like a blowtorch , causes the mud to crust and burns off any wrappers . 
In fact , there 's only one person involved who 's happy , and that 's Floyd String , president of Coin Wrap and conceiver of the cement-truck solution . 
`` Parenthood , '' this summer 's successful and amusing movie about parents and children , apparently was only the beginning . 
Some of our best and most idiosyncratic film makers -- from Truffaut to Fellini to Woody Allen -- have taken a cue from Chekhov 
Yet too many people working in Hollywood today seem to suffer from the delusion that the drama played out in every home will be interesting to people who live somewhere else . 
This is not the case . 
Yet there will be people who will sob at `` Immediate Family , '' a limply constructed and offensive movie about adoption . 
Written by Barbara Benedek , co-author of `` The Big Chill , '' `` Immediate Family '' takes the position that only rich people living in nice houses should have children . 
The film makers have couched this offensive idea in pretty packaging . 
Having exhausted all modern aids to fertility , Linda and Michael decide to adopt . 
Or maybe they are disgusted by the literal-minded musical score 
Lucy , of course , is pretty and smart , though uneducated . 
Everyone falls in love with everyone else . 
But in the end , everything turns out for the best , in the film makers ' warped view . 
The glib emotional style Mr. Goldberg has perfected on television 's `` Family Ties '' does n't benefit from magnification . 
His characters practically scamper through a vast range of human emotions , like travelers doing 10 cities in eight days . 
Finally , there is one family movie that quite eloquently explores the depth of human emotion -- only its stars are bears . 
For the second time , in a movie called `` The Bear , '' French director Jean-Jacques Annaud demonstrates just how powerful pictures can be . 
To be sure , one wonders what kind of man is this , who feels compelled to try to understand the most primitive longing and instinct in a way that requires the most sophisticated appreciation of visual storytelling . 
Westinghouse expects to meet its corporate goals despite a softening in the economy . 
A bright spot is the company 's power-generation business , which is experiencing a surge of growth for the first time in years . 
While Westinghouse has n't had a nuclear power plant order from a U.S. utility in about a decade , excess capacity is beginning to shrink . 
Westinghouse also is well positioned to sell steam turbine and gas turbine plants to independent power producers . 
Westinghouse also expects its international sales to soon grow to 25 % of total corporate sales from 20 % last year . 
Mr. Marous said Westinghouse would own 70 % of the facility . 
Company officials also said that any gain from the sale of Westinghouse 's 55 % stake in its transmission and distribution venture with the Swiss firm of Asea Brown Boveri will be offset by a restructuring charge in the fourth quarter . 
SHORT INTEREST in International Mobile Machines Corp. fell to 3,102,935 shares in the month ended Oct. 13 from 3,420,936 in September . 
The National Institutes of Health policy would require researchers to cut financial ties with health-care businesses -- or lose their government money . 
Among other concerns , the agency says researchers with business ties are more likely to falsify findings in order to tout new drugs . 
The NIH is asking grant recipients and others for comments on the proposed guidelines until Dec. 15 . 
The guidelines could foil future arrangements similar to the deal behind Lithox Inc. , a Salem , Mass. , start-up , says Robert Daly , a managing partner of TA Associates , a venture-capital firm . 
For instance , Commonwealth BioVentures Inc. , a venture-capital concern , last month invested $ 600,000 to launch Amira Inc. , a Worcester , Mass. , concern that will produce pharmaceuticals . 
Scientists Rima Kaddurah-Daouk and Paul Schimmel conducted the initial research at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology . 
The Amira transaction is typical of the way venture-capital firms are approaching the task of commercializing biotechnology research . 
While universities develop the basic research , `` venture capitalists are the ones best positioned to finance its commercialization , '' says Gloria W. Doubleday of Commonwealth . 
The stakes in the controversy are large . 
Last year , venture capitalists spent an estimated $ 600 million to finance start-up companies in medical and biotechnology businesses , according to the National Venture Capital Association , a trade group . 
In many of these deals , `` venture capitalists had the inside track , '' says Lawrence Bock of Avalon Ventures , La Jolla , Calif . 
But under the proposed guidelines , all federally funded research will have to be reported publicly so that anyone can capitalize on the work . 
But before Athena was able to get an exclusive license to the technology , the Federal Register published most of the details , `` giving all of the company 's potential competitors a chance to exploit it , '' Mr. Bock says . 
The proposed guidelines could also delay commercialization -- and force small companies to waste scarce capital , entrepreneurs say . 
If start-ups ca n't have early access to research being conducted at institutions , `` we have to replicate it ourselves or do without the research , '' says Ruth Emyanitoff , manager of business development at Applied bioTechnology Inc. , a Cambridge , Mass. , concern . 
For its part , NIH insists that its guidelines `` should not stifle research creativity or technology transfer from the research laboratory to commercial use . '' 
NIH staff members believe the guidelines are essential to prevent the escalation of problems that have already begun to surface in scientific ventures . 
Many officials are also concerned about companies getting a `` free ride '' on government-sponsored research . 
Ms. Bick , the NIH administrator , says the business and scientific community is overreacting to what the agency merely meant to be `` ideas for discussion . '' 
Indeed , institutions already are taking note . 
The University of California at San Francisco is also circulating a memo among its scientific faculty that will restrict contact with the world of business . 
Says Mr. Daly , the venture capitalist : `` It does n't matter whether they call it guidelines or policy . 
No doubt there is something to irk everyone in this AT&T-sponsored dramatization of Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein 's book about Watergate . 
The Ku Klux Klan was revived in the 1920s as a national organization aimed at Catholics and Jews as well as blacks . 
The filing , made yesterday in U.S. Bankruptcy Court here , follows an agreement by L.J. Hooker Corp. , Merksamer 's owner , to sell the chain to management for an undisclosed price . 
Rumors to the effect that the Merksamer chain would file for Chapter 11 arose last week in the jewelry industry . 
At that time , Sam Merksamer , president of the chain , angrily denied that his company was about to file . 
According to executives close to the situation , Merksamer filed for Chapter 11 to speed the sale of the chain . 
The Merksamer bankruptcy-law filing appears to supersede that agreement . 
`` By filing for Chapter 11 , the Merksamer chain will only need approval from a bankruptcy judge for the sale , not the hundreds of unsecured creditors , '' said this executive . 
Mr. Merksamer and Sanford Sigoloff , chief executive of L.J. Hooker , were unavailable for comment . 
For all of this year 's explosive run-up in stock prices , Renaissance Investment Management Inc. 's computer sat on the sidelines . 
Renaissance , a Cincinnati-based money manager , began buying stocks again this week with half of the $ 1.8 billion that it oversees for clients , according to people familiar with the firm 's revised strategy . 
Renaissance declined to confirm the move , but its stock purchases were thought to have begun Tuesday , timed to coincide with the maturity this week of Treasury bills owned by the firm . 
Wall Street executives said they believed that Renaissance 's $ 900 million buy program was carried out by PaineWebber Inc . 
As reported , PaineWebber bought shares Tuesday as part of a customer strategy shift , although the broker 's client was said then to have been Japanese . 
When it owns stocks , Renaissance 's portfolio typically is composed of about 60 large-capitalization issues 
When it owns stocks , Renaissance 's portfolio typically is composed of about 60 large-capitalization issues ; to make buy or sell moves , the firm solicits Wall Street brokerage houses a day or so in advance , looking for the best package price to carry out the trades . 
That puts the broker at risk if it 's trying to buy stock in a rising market . 
At the time , the Dow Jones Industrial Average stood at about 2200 . 
The Dow average now stands more than 20 % higher , while Renaissance 's portfolio of Treasurys produced a return of about 6 % through the first three quarters of the year . 
The computer 's miscalculation has been painful for Renaissance . 
Stock prices , meanwhile , are about 140 points lower than the peak of 2791.41 reached on the Dow industrial average Oct. 9 . 
Mr. Terrizzi wo n't say specifically , explaining that if there was such a move , it would take about three days to complete the loose ends of the transaction . 
But everything is relative to Mr. Terrizzi , so stocks in his view can become more attractive in comparison with bonds or T-bills , even if shares are more expensive than when they were sold in January . 
`` Our -LCB- computer -RCB- model has a certain trigger point , '' he said . 
The firm has made 17 previous shifts from one type of asset to another in its 10-year history . 
It was the 49-year-old Mr. Evans who had moved into the offices of MGM\/UA and run the company during Qintex Australia Ltd. 's aborted bid for the movie company . 
On Oct. 19 , Qintex Entertainment was about to default on a $ 5.9 million payment owed to MCA Inc. in connection with the distribution of a television program . 
But early on Oct. 19 , the second of two hectic days of board meetings , Mr. Evans said he believed Qintex Australia would n't be forthcoming . 
But a majority of the board , which includes three members from the Australian company , overrode him . 
Mr. Evans resigned . 
Later in the day , according to the source , the board reversed itself , decided to file for bankruptcy protection , and asked Mr. Evans to stay on . 
Mr. Evans told the board he needed the weekend to think about it . 
Last Monday , Qintex Australia announced a restructuring plan and said it would sell off assets . 
Separately , a Qintex Entertainment shareholder filed suit in federal court in Los Angeles charging Qintex Australia with misleading shareholders about Qintex Entertainment 's financial position . 
In contrast to the 1 % conversion fee charged by Visa , foreign-currency dealers routinely charge 7 % or more to convert U.S. dollars into foreign currency . 
On top of this , the traveler who converts his dollars into foreign currency before the trip starts will lose interest from the day of conversion . 
The card holder will pay the modest 1 % fee only on the amounts actually needed . 
Of the total purchase price , $ 50 million cash and $ 30 million in stock -LRB- nearly 1.8 million shares -RRB- would be paid to buy the existing 700-room Marina Hotel & Casino from Southwest Securities , a Nevada limited partnership . 
MGM Grand said the latest stock offering wo n't cover the $ 600 million or more cost of building the proposed resort and theme park , and added it will need to seek additional financing , either through bank borrowings or debt and equity offerings , at a later date . 
The resort will include the MGM Grand Hotel , a multi-spired , castle-like facility that will include 5,000 rooms and 85,000 square feet of casino space . 
Assets of the 400 taxable funds tracked by IBC\/Donoghue 's Money Fund Report jumped to $ 351.2 billion in the week ended Tuesday , the Holliston , Mass.-based newsletter said . 
Meanwhile , the average yield on taxable funds dropped nearly a tenth of a percentage point , the largest drop since midsummer . 
`` Lower yields are just reflecting lower short-term interest rates , '' said Brenda Malizia Negus , editor of Money Fund Report . 
The yield on six-month Treasury bills sold at Monday 's auction , for example , was just 7.77 % . 
One way that money fund managers boost yields in a declining rate environment is by extending the maturities of their investments , so they can earn the current higher rates for a longer period . 
Average maturity was as short as 29 days at the start of this year , when short-term interest rates were moving steadily upward . 
The highest-yielding funds are still above 9 % . 
The top-performing fund in the latest week was Dreyfus Worldwide Dollar , with a seven-day compound yield of 9.45 % . 
The fund invests heavily in dollar-denominated money-market securities overseas . 
The average seven-day simple yield of the 400 funds fell to 8.14 % from 8.21 % , Donoghue 's reported . 
Many small investors are facing a double whammy this year 
It 's a good strategy in a rising market , where a 25 % leveraged portfolio in effect allows investors to have 125 % of their money working for them . 
`` That 's really where the leverage hurt , '' says Thomas Herzfeld , a Miami-based investment manager who specializes in closed-end funds . 
Leverage is never a problem for the traditional `` open end '' mutual funds , which are n't publicly traded and are n't allowed to use leverage at all . 
The usual maneuver is to borrow against the portfolio value or issue preferred stock , using the proceeds to buy additional bonds . 
Consider the New America High Income Fund . 
With a leveraged position of about 45 % , the fund 's share price has plunged 28.5 % so far this year . 
Many investors are unaware their funds have borrowed to speculate in such a risky market . 
In a typical leverage strategy , a fund tries to capture the spread between what it costs to borrow and the higher return on the bonds it buys with the borrowed money . 
If the market surges , holders can make that much more profit 
Fund managers , for their part , defend their use of leverage . 
Carl Ericson , who runs the Colonial Intermediate High Income Fund , says the fund 's 25 % leverage has jacked up its interest income . 
Yet some funds have pulled in their horns . 
New America High Income Fund recently said that it plans to reduce its leverage position by buying back $ 5 million in preferred stock and notes from investors . 
`` We are trying to increase our flexibility , '' says Ellen E. Terry , a vice president at Ostrander Capital Management , the fund 's investment adviser . 
Ms. Terry did say the fund 's recent performance `` illustrates what happens in a leveraged product '' when the market does n't cooperate . 
But a few funds have taken other defensive steps . 
Some have raised their cash positions to record levels . 
Prospect Street High Income Portfolio , for instance , now holds about 15 % in cash and equivalents , nearly quintuple the amount it held earlier this year , says John Frabotta , portfolio co-manager . 
He says the fund , which is 40 % leveraged , has maintained a `` substantial cushion '' between its borrowing costs and the yields of the portfolio 's bonds . 
Other funds have recently sold weak junk bonds to raise cash . 
`` That 's a problem because cash is n't earning us very much money , '' Mr. Bianchi says . 
`` We 're looking at the leverage factor every day , '' says Robert Moore , president of Bernstein-Macaulay Inc. , a Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. unit and the fund 's adviser . 
South Gardens , as the Bartlett scheme is called , will occupy the last 3.5 acres of open space at the southwest tip of Manhattan . 
It could cost taxpayers $ 15 million to install and BPC residents $ 1 million a year to maintain . 
Ms. Bartlett 's previous work , which earned her an international reputation in the non-horticultural art world , often took gardens as its nominal subject . 
Undeterred , the BPCA hired Ms. Bartlett and another confessed garden ignoramus , the architect Alexander Cooper , who claimed he had never visited , much less built , a garden , and said of the project , `` I do n't view this as a landscape . 
The third principal in the South Gardens adventure did have garden experience . 
After four years , though , the South Gardens design is 100 % uncollaborated Jennifer Bartlett . 
But for South Gardens , the grid was to be a 3-D network of masonry or hedge walls with real plants inside them . 
In a letter to the BPCA , kelly\/varnell called this `` arbitrary and amateurish . '' 
All the while , Ms. Bartlett had been busy at her assignment , serene in her sense of self-tilth . 
And she further stunned her listeners by revealing her secret garden design method : Commissioning a friend to spend `` five or six thousand dollars ... on books that I ultimately cut up . '' 
After that , the layout had been easy . 
As she put it in a 1987 lecture at the Harvard Graduate School of Design : `` I have designed a garden , not knowing the difference between a rhododendron and a tulip . '' Moreover , she proclaimed that `` landscape architects have been going wrong for the last 20 years '' in the design of open space . And she further stunned her listeners by revealing her secret garden design method : Commissioning a friend to spend `` five or six thousand dollars ... on books that I ultimately cut up . '' After that , the layout had been easy . `` I 've always relied heavily on the grid and found it never to fail . '' 
Ms. Bartlett told her audience that she absolutely did not believe in compromise or in giving in to the client `` because I do n't think you can do watered-down versions of things . '' 
The labels were breathy : `` Within its sheltering walls is a microcosm of a thousand years in garden design ... a rose garden , herb garden , serpentine garden , flower fields , an apple orchard ... organized in a patchwork of 50-by-50-foot squares to form ` rooms ' ... here and there are simple architectural forms , a whimsical jet of water , a conceit of topiary or tartan plaid , and chairs of every sort to drag around ... . 
Plant lovers who studied the maquette were alarmed . 
They looked at the miniature and saw a giant folly . 
Ms. Bartlett 's little rooms left little room for plants or people . 
Kelly\/Varnell had put South Gardens ' carrying capacity at four people per room , or about 100 humans overall . 
Inside the grid were 24 of these plant cells jammed full of clutter . 
One she made into a topiary rec room , replete with plants shaped into a Barcalounger , TV , piano and chairs . 
One she made into a topiary rec room , replete with plants shaped into a Barcalounger , TV , piano and chairs . In another , she requisitioned topiary MX missile cones -- costing $ 10,000 each -- in heights up to 20 feet . 
One she made into a topiary rec room , replete with plants shaped into a Barcalounger , TV , piano and chairs . In another , she requisitioned topiary MX missile cones -- costing $ 10,000 each -- in heights up to 20 feet . Another she stuffed with eight `` rectilinear hedges '' for a topiary geometry lesson in the right-angling of plants . 
In the herbal lounge she specified a `` plaid knot garden '' decor . One she made into a topiary rec room , replete with plants shaped into a Barcalounger , TV , piano and chairs . In another , she requisitioned topiary MX missile cones -- costing $ 10,000 each -- in heights up to 20 feet . Another she stuffed with eight `` rectilinear hedges '' for a topiary geometry lesson in the right-angling of plants . 
Inside the grid were 24 of these plant cells jammed full of clutter . One she made into a topiary rec room , replete with plants shaped into a Barcalounger , TV , piano and chairs . In another , she requisitioned topiary MX missile cones -- costing $ 10,000 each -- in heights up to 20 feet . Another she stuffed with eight `` rectilinear hedges '' for a topiary geometry lesson in the right-angling of plants . In the herbal lounge she specified a `` plaid knot garden '' decor . She ordered the foyer done in a different plaid planting , and made the landscape architects study a book on tartans . In one garden roomette she implanted a 43-foot square glass cube meant to show off a plaid tile floor conceit , a `` zinc sink , '' a `` huge fishbowl with carp '' and a `` birdcage with cockatoos . '' 
One thing about the Bartlett plan was never in doubt : It would demand the full-time skills of a battalion of topiary barbers , rosarians , orchardists and arborists . 
Then , to make these gardenettes quite literally rooms , Ms. Bartlett had thrown up windowless walls -LRB- brick , lattice , hedge -RRB- eight to 10 feet tall , casting her interiors into day-long Stygian shade . 
Finally , flouting the BPCA 's wishes to continue the popular two-mile riverside Esplanade , prized for its expansive views of New York Harbor , the Statue of Liberty and Ellis Island , Ms. Bartlett threw up yet another wall , this time concrete , this time 10 1\/2 feet tall . 
She ran it the length of the South Gardens riverfront , blotting out the city 's great natural water features , the harbor and the river . 
While the model was still on view , Manhattan Community Board 1 passed a resolution against South Gardens . 
While the model was still on view , Manhattan Community Board 1 passed a resolution against South Gardens . The Parks Council wrote the BPCA that this `` too ` private ' ... exclusive , '' complex and expensive `` enclosed garden ... belongs in almost any location but the waterfront . '' 
Lynden B. Miller , the noted public garden designer who restored Central Park 's Conservatory Garden , recalls her reaction to the South Gardens model in light of the public garden she was designing for 42nd Street 's Bryant Park : `` Bryant Park , as designed in 1933 , failed as a public space , because it made people feel trapped . 
They then addressed the decidedly `` questionable safety of ... a complex garden of endless hiding places . 
They then addressed the decidedly `` questionable safety of ... a complex garden of endless hiding places . The 8 ft. hedges which obstruct views in and out of small ` rooms ' insure ... that this garden will be a potential breeding ground for crime . '' 
-LRB- At Harvard , Ms. Bartlett had declared : `` There are going to be problems with safety ... 
Despite the dire assessments of knowledgeable garden professionals , Ms. Bartlett 's South Gardens design somehow continues on , seemingly impervious to reason , stalled only by bureaucratic lethargy and logistical complications . 
And by substituting yet another landscape architect , Nicholas Quennell , he insists he can achieve that and other accommodations to gardening reality while still preserving the `` artistic vision '' of a `` truly great artist . '' 
These statesmen might take counsel from William Robinson , author of `` The English Flower Garden '' -- the gardener 's bible since 1883 -- who seems to have had a Jennifer Bartlett in mind when he wrote : `` Unhappily , our gardeners for ages have suffered at the hands of the decorative artist when applying his ` designs ' to the garden ... . 
I read the exerpts of Wayne Angell 's exchange with a Gosbank representative -LRB- `` Put the Soviet Economy on Golden Rails , '' editorial page , Oct. 5 -RRB- with great interest , since the gold standard is one of my areas of research . 
Mr. Angell is incorrect when he states that the Soviet Union 's large gold reserves would give it `` great power to establish credibility . '' 
During the latter part of the 19th century , Russia was on a gold standard and had gold reserves representing more than 100 % of its outstanding currency , but no one outside Russia used rubles . The Bank of England , on the other hand , had gold reserves that averaged about 30 % of its outstanding currency , and Bank of England notes were accepted throughout the world . 
The success of the British gold standard was due to independent private banking and common law , rather than the choice of gold for valuing the currency . 
The Soviet Union should keep these lessons in mind as it seeks to establish the ruble as an international currency . 
These rate indications are n't directly comparable 
Mr. Breeden , in his first testimony to Congress since taking the SEC post , said the agency is studying the Friday the 13th market plunge , including how current circuit breakers affected the market that day and the following Monday . 
Circuit breakers , designed to give the markets a breather in cases of sharp price movements , curb trading of futures or stocks at various trigger points . 
At certain points during the Friday the 13th drop , circuit breakers kicked in on the futures market , slowing trading at times . 
Rep. Edward Markey -LRB- D. , Mass. -RRB- , chairman of the House Telecommunications and Finance Subcommittee , is pushing the idea of a circuit breaker for computer-driven program trading in hopes that would curb `` turmoil '' in the marketplace . 
Mr. Breeden did n't reject the proposal . 
Mr. Breeden backed most of the provisions in a market-reform bill that the SEC brought to the subcommittee last year under then-chairman David Ruder . 
Mr. Breeden contended that uncertainty over when the SEC might act could worsen volatility in the markets . 
One would force brokerage houses to provide the SEC detailed information about loans made by their holding companies . 
He also backed a rule to require large traders to report transactions on a systematic basis . 
Analysts are estimating third-quarter earnings will drop between 13 % and 20 % to about 50 to 55 cents per share , compared with 63 cents per share in the year-ago quarter . 
The centers comprise a total of about 1.6 million square feet of retail space . 
Mr. Pilevsky , who heads Philips International Holding Corp. , a New York-based real estate company , owns more than a dozen other shopping centers in which K mart is a tenant . 
K mart runs 2,200 K mart stores , primarily in leased facilities . 
Motorola is fighting back against junk mail . 
So much of the stuff poured into its Austin , Texas , offices that its mail rooms there simply stopped delivering it . 
`` We just do n't have the staff to -LCB- deliver -RCB- it , nor do we have the space or the time , '' says a spokesman for the Schaumburg , Ill. , electronics company , which has 5,000 employees in the Austin area . 
Motorola is in good company . 
Businesses across the country are getting fed up with junk mail , and some are saying they just are n't going to take it anymore -- literally . 
Anybody with a mailbox can answer that : sheer , overwhelming , mind-numbing volume . 
According to the Direct Marketing Association , total direct mail -- to both businesses and consumers -- jumped 50 % to 65.4 billion pieces in 1988 from five years earlier . 
The direct-mail industry , not surprisingly , is fuming at the injustice of it all . 
Motorola 's Austin operation was one of the first to lose patience , deciding a few years ago to junk any bulk mail that was n't addressed to an individual . 
At Air Products , meanwhile , the mailroom staff opens junk mail and often throws it away -- even if addressed to an individual . 
Direct marketers were especially alarmed when General Motors -- one of the country 's largest companies and a big direct-mail user itself -- entered the junk-mail battle . 
As of March 1 , its Flint office , with about 2,500 employees , stopped delivering bulk mail and non-subscription magazines . 
As of March 1 , its Flint office , with about 2,500 employees , stopped delivering bulk mail and non-subscription magazines . Employees were told that if they really wanted the publications , they would have to have them sent home instead . 
Direct-mail executives see GM 's stand as an ominous sign -- even if the junk-mail kings did bring it on themselves . 
`` Why anyone would want to close themselves off -LCB- from direct mail -RCB- , a priori , does n't make any sense , '' says Michael Bronner of Bronner Slosberg Associates , a Boston directmail firm . 
`` It smacks of big brotherism . 
The practice is , however , legal in most cases . 
The junk-mail titans , ever optimistic , are looking for ways around the problem . 
And before it does , they 're trying to cut back on the clutter that created the situation in the first place . 
Among other things , the industry is trying to come up with standardized business lists that cut down on duplications . 
The ad campaign , created by Saatchi & Saatchi 's Backer Spielvogel Bates agency , is an extension of the auto company 's `` Cars That Make Sense '' campaign , which emphasized affordability . 
One spot shows a Sonata next to a rival midsized car , and an announcer says , `` Listen to what they 're saying about the Hyundai Sonata . '' 
As the announcer reads favorable quotes about the model from Motor Trend and Road & Track magazines , the other car , which is white , slowly turns green . 
EWDB , formed by the merger of Eurocom and Della Femina McNamee WCRS , said it agreed to buy Vizeversa , an agency in Barcelona . 
Seagram will run two interactive ads in December magazines promoting its Chivas Regal and Crown Royal brands . 
The Chivas ad illustrates -- via a series of pullouts -- the wild reactions from the pool man , gardener and others if not given Chivas for Christmas . 
Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell -LRB- D. , Maine -RRB- was confident he had enough votes to block the maneuver on procedural grounds , perhaps as soon as today . 
The two lawmakers sparred in a highly personal fashion , violating usual Senate decorum . 
The trend is making advocates of the tax cut less optimistic about success . 
`` There is a one-out-of-three shot of getting it this year , '' said Sen. David Boren of Oklahoma , a leading Democratic proponent of cutting the capital-gains tax . 
Other Democrats who favor a capital-gains cut are even more pessimistic . 
`` There will be no capital-gains bill this year , '' said Sen. Dale Bumpers -LRB- D. , Ark . -RRB- . 
`` I 'm probably not going to vote for any capital-gains proposal . 
Another significant factor in the capitalgains debate is the extent to which it has become a purely political battle between President Bush and Senate Majority Leader Mitchell . 
Today , Sen. Mitchell and other leading Democrats plan to turn up the heat again by holding a news conference to bash the proposal . 
In addition , White House aides think that there are numerous other important measures Democrats badly wanted passed -- such as the scaling back of a controversial catastrophic health-care plan for the elderly -- that might provide the president leverage in cutting deals with Democrats . 
A capital-gains tax cut might be paired with such measures to help ensure passage . 
Second in command from 1979 to 1984 , Mrs. Verne told a Paris court that the `` great disorder '' that reigned at the agency led her into temptation . 
El Salvador is destroying more than 1.6 million pounds of food that had rotted in government warehouses , government officials said . 
The state Supply Regulator Institute is to burn rice , corn and beans that spoiled because of neglect and corruption in the previous Christian Democrat government , a statement from the information service SISAL said . 
A black-draped cruise liner sailed into Naples yesterday bringing 800 Libyans threatening vengeance if Italy refuses to pay compensation for more than 30 years of colonial rule . 
Another 250 Libyans were already in Italy to stage a day of mourning for victims of Italy 's colonial rule between 1911 and 1943 , when Tripoli says Rome kidnapped 5,000 Libyans and deported them as forced labor . A black-draped cruise liner sailed into Naples yesterday bringing 800 Libyans threatening vengeance if Italy refuses to pay compensation for more than 30 years of colonial rule . 
Alarmed councilors say the project could jeopardize costly efforts to stop , or slow down , the subsidence that makes Venice subject to regular and destructive flooding . 
AGIP refused to reconsider and says drilling is due to start early next year . 
Net income includes an extraordinary gain of about $ 100,000 from the reversal of bad debt and interest income . 
Net income includes an extraordinary gain of about $ 100,000 from the reversal of bad debt and interest income . Revenue was about $ 4.5 million . 
Regarding your Oct. 4 page-one article `` Bad Blood '' on the generic-drug battle : The Epilepsy Institute is not just a patient-advocacy organization . 
It is primarily a certified outpatient treatment facility providing comprehensive services to people with epilepsy and their families . 
In 1985 , the Medical Tribune reported that a growing number of critics are challenging the FDA bioequivalence-therapeutic-equivalence equation . 
We do not depend on pharmaceutical companies for our support . 
The institute has governmental service contracts for the provision of direct patient services 
The institute has governmental service contracts for the provision of direct patient services ; collects patient fees 
The institute has governmental service contracts for the provision of direct patient services ; collects patient fees ; receives money through contributions from individuals , foundations and bequests . 
But let us not confuse profits of big business masquerading as concerns for people 's health care or for the cost . 
The man-made inferno will tower over a man-made lagoon with more than four acres of pools , grottoes and waterfalls . 
Visitors , whisked from the Strip on a moving walkway , will glide over a habitat for rare white tigers , which will star in performances by the famed illusionist team of Siegfried & Roy . 
At the core of all this stands a hotel . 
This is the Mirage , a $ 630 million island-fantasy hotel-casino now being completed for opening in November by Golden Nugget Inc . 
It 's the most stunning example of Las Vegas 's concerted effort to transform itself into a world-famous vacation resort for families as well as gamblers . 
Not for 15 years has a big new hotel-casino opened here . 
Smaller projects swell the figure to at least $ 2.5 billion . 
Stephen A. Wynn , who owns 29.4 % of Golden Nugget 's shares , says the Mirage and other projects will help Las Vegas attract a whole new generation of visitors . 
The projects already under construction will increase Las Vegas 's supply of hotel rooms by 11,795 , or nearly 20 % , to 75,500 . 
Hotel-casino operators play down the possibility of a labor shortage . 
`` Traffic is certainly a concern , as is pollution , water and an adequate labor market , '' says Frank Sain , executive director of the Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Bureau . 
City fathers have managed to push through projects that are crucial for tourist growth , such as the expansion of McCarran International Airport to accommodate the 44 % of Las Vegas tourists who fly here . 
The expansion will set off a marketing war among the big hotel-casinos . 
Caesars World Inc. plans to defend its august reputation by sinking $ 190 million into its opulent Caesars Palace , next door to the new Mirage , and adding a $ 100 million shopping area reminiscent of Rodeo Drive . 
Golden Nugget , Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. 's first casino client , has borrowed on more than $ 600 million worth of mortgage notes , mostly sold to private investors by Drexel , to build the Mirage . 
The growth of Las Vegas tourism in recent years persuades lenders that they will . 
Casino revenues and hotel occupancy rates are high . 
`` If you build a better mousetrap , it will catch more mice , '' says Fred Benninger , chairman of MGM Grand . 
Ellen Cokely , a tourist from Alton , Ill. , seems inclined to agree . 
`` Two generations ago , Dad came to Las Vegas by himself for a little diversion , '' says Van Heffner , executive vice president of the Nevada Hotel and Motel Association . 
`` One generation ago , Mom joined Dad . 
Only a decade or so ago , casino managers balked at in-room TV sets and other fripperies that distracted from gambling . 
For now , however , the naysayers ' voices are drowned by the roar of cement mixers and the clanging of construction cranes along the Strip . 
The ferocious competition probably will drive some poorly managed properties into bankruptcy or new ownership . 
It has happened before . 
Yet that has n't discouraged investors . 
Some have bought big chunks of Strip property for what may turn into another wave of building . 
Even before the huge new projects began , the Strip 's recent expansion squeezed smaller competitors . 
Hotel expansion and an influx of more-discriminating tourists have hurt motels . 
Many people here expect a room-rate war as the new projects open . 
Skeptics wonder whether mega-resorts such as the Mirage will be able to squeeze a profit from their cash flow . 
The Mirage will cost at least $ 1 million a day to operate . 
Mr. Wynn seems confident that it will produce a healthy profit , but some securities analysts doubt it . 
Competitors and analysts say that among large existing properties Bally Manufacturing Corp. 's Bally Grand hotel-casino probably will be hardest hit among major properties . 
Bally bought the former MGM Grand hotel-casino from Kirk Kerkorian four years ago . 
Only now is it undergoing a badly needed facelift . 
Its parking lot is inconvenient , the MGM lion's-head logo still appears in places , and customers still call it the Grand , rather than the Bally Grand . 
Any hotel-casino without a strong identity will get whacked by the new competition , says Glenn Schaeffer , senior vice president of Circus Circus . 
Circus Circus 's flagship casino has become the envy of competitors for its ability to vacuum cash from the pockets of vacationing families . 
The company 's Excalibur will also appeal to families , of course . 
Instead , they are spending to reinforce the identity that they believe attracts their customers . 
`` More rooms are n't the answer for us , '' says Caesars World chairman Henry Gluck . 
While his company 's hotel is building a retail complex in Beverly Hills style and redoing existing rooms , it has decreased the number of its rooms . 
Other , smaller concerns are also pursuing market niches -- Hawaiian tourists , for example , or the local trade . 
`` There 's still room for boutique properties , '' says James Barrett , president of MarCor Resorts Inc . 
Despite the proliferation of tourist distractions , Las Vegans have n't forgot that gambling is still what the town is all about . 
`` But 93 % of tourists still come for gambling . 
NORTH SIDE SAVINGS BANK directors declared an initial dividend of 10 cents a share , payable Dec. 5 to stock of record Nov. 21 . 
Every Bill which shall have passed the House of Representatives and the Senate , shall , before it becomes a Law , be presented to the President of the United States 
Every Bill which shall have passed the House of Representatives and the Senate , shall , before it becomes a Law , be presented to the President of the United States ; If he approve he shall sign it , but if not he shall return it , with his Objections to that House in which it shall have originated , who shall enter the Objections at large on their Journal , and proceed to reconsider it . 
President Bush told reporters a few months ago that he was looking for the right test case to see whether he already has the line-item veto . 
Vice President Quayle and Budget Director Darman said recently they 've joined the search . 
President Bush does n't have any provision in mind , but line-item-veto bait will be like earthworms at midnight in the coming Continuing Resolution . 
We have been persuaded by the constitutional argument for the inherent line-item veto since 1987 , when lawyer Stephen Glazier first made the case on this page . 
Mr. Glazier discovered that the Founders had worried that Congress might take the President out of the loop . 
Article I , Section 7 , Clause 3 says that whether it 's called an `` order , resolution or vote '' or anything else , Presidents must have the chance to veto . 
Finding a test case should n't be hard , but there is something to be said for picking the best one possible . 
The White House had the perfect case , but Congress blinked before it could go to court . 
After the HUD and S&L stories broke , some Congressmen began to worry that their influence peddling at executive-branch and independent agencies might some day get them in trouble . 
They worried about an Interior Department directive to log all communications with Members or their staffs . 
The White House warned that this would be an unconstitutional usurpation of its power . 
When it threatened to use this provision as the test for a line-item veto , Congress caved . 
The fear Congress has of any line-item-veto test led Members to add the single most contorted and ridiculous provision this year , `` This section shall be effective only on Oct. 1 , 1989 . '' 
Unconstitutional bills make good legal targets , but the line-item veto is better understood as a political opportunity than as mere fodder for lawyers . 
Exactly right . 
Congress is in no position to naysay Mr. Bush now that we 're into Gramm-Rudman 's sequestration . 
Just this week , the House-Senate conference met -- 231 conferees , divided into 26 different subconferences . 
Senator Daniel Inouye agreed to close some bases in Hawaii in exchange for such goodies as $ 11 million for a parking lot at Walter Reed Hospital . 
President Bush should take the Constitution in one hand and a budget ax in the other and get to work . 
Congress may have lost any sense of discipline , but that does n't mean the country must learn to live forever with this mess . 
Holders of SCI TV 's $ 507 million of high-yield junk bonds are being asked to forgive a lot of debt in exchange for taking a 39 % equity stake in SCI TV . 
SCI TV , which is controlled by Nashville , Tenn. , entrepreneur George Gillett , owns six TV stations , including several CBS Inc. affiliates . 
Through investment banker Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. , SCI TV is offering to exchange three classes of junk bonds for packages of new bonds and equity that investors value at ranges from 20 cents to 70 cents on the dollar . 
KKR would give up a 31 % equity stake to bondholders , while Mr. Gillett would surrender an 8 % stake . 
While one big SCI TV investor thinks that 's pretty generous , many junkholders had been hoping that KKR and Mr. Gillett would invest new money in SCI TV . 
Although their ads picture curvy young people in skimpy outfits , club owners know the future lies with the lumpier over-40 set . 
`` It 's a misconception that physical fitness is something for the young and middle-aged , '' says Michael Pacholik , sales manager of the LA Fitness club , Diamond Bar , Calif . 
The Association of Quality Clubs , which puts 1988 industry revenue at $ 5 billion , surveyed the health-conscious over-40 market and found that 43 % exercise regularly . 
Michael Hays , head of ProBody Fitness , notes an industry `` wash '' is in progress . 
`` Clubs need to be run like restaurants where every square foot makes a dollar , '' he says . 
Older people help profits by filling in `` downtime . '' 
People on fixed incomes get a break at Espre 
In the U.S. , radiation limits are set and monitored by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission , which licenses reactors that process the topaz . 
`` The -LCB- stones -RCB- that were irradiated in the U.S. are safe , '' says John Hickey , chief of the NRC operations branch , Washington . 
But there is a small risk that some were imported with high radiation levels . '' 
Boston 's Advent International raises $ 230 million from U.S. pension funds and other institutions to invest in Europe . 
European venture capital funds total about $ 14 billion and are expected to continue growing 35 % annually . 
Continentals believe that the strongest growth area will be southern Europe . 
Favored ventures include media , telecommunications and retailing . 
SUSPECT `` SALES '' ads are challenged by the Better Business Bureau of Metropolitan New York . 
But it may have a good listener in Washington . 
The FCC plans to hear a day of testimony Nov. 16 on the plight of AM radio . 
The FM radio band , considered technically superior because it can carry stereo broadcasts , has cornered the airwaves for delivering music . 
AM stereo remains largely undeveloped because it lacks a uniform delivery system . 
The Kemper Corp. unit and other critics complain that program trading causes wild swings in stock prices , such as on Tuesday and on Oct. 13 and 16 , and has increased chances for market crashes . 
Index arbitrage recently has accounted for about half of all program trading on the New York Stock Exchange . 
On Tuesday afternoon , Kemper told Bear , Stearns & Co. , General Electric Co. 's Kidder , Peabody & Co. unit , Morgan Stanley and Oppenheimer & Co. that it will no longer do business with them because of their commitment to index arbitrage , officials inside and outside these firms confirmed . 
`` We 've been opposed to '' index arbitrage `` for a long time , '' said Stephen B. Timbers , chief investment officer at Kemper , which manages $ 56 billion , including $ 8 billion of stocks . 
While Mr. Timbers explained he 's `` not totally convinced index arbitrage changes the overall level of the stock market , '' he said that `` on an intraday basis , it has major effects . 
We 've talked to proponents of index arbitrage and told them to cool it because they 're ruining the market . 
Kemper also blasted the Big Board for ignoring the interests of individual and institutional holders . 
`` The New York Stock Exchange has vested interests '' in its big member securities firms `` that cloud its objectivity , '' Mr. Timbers said . 
Small investors perceive that `` big operators '' dominate the market , said Thomas O'Hara , chairman of the National Association of Investors and head of the exchange 's Individual Investors Advisory Committee set up after the 1987 crash . 
Big Board Chairman John J. Phelan said in a recent interview that he has no inclination to eliminate program trading . 
Morgan Stanley and Kidder Peabody , the two biggest program trading firms , staunchly defend their strategies . 
`` We continue to believe the position we 've taken is reasonable , '' a Morgan Stanley official said . 
`` We continue to believe the position we 've taken is reasonable , '' a Morgan Stanley official said . `` We would stop index arbitrage when the market is under stress , and we have recently , '' he said , citing Oct. 13 and earlier this week . 
According to Lawrence Eckenfelder , a securities industry analyst at Prudential-Bache Securities Inc. , `` Kemper is the first firm to make a major statement with program trading . '' 
Merrill Lynch & Co. -- $ 200 million of 8.4 % notes due Nov. 1 , 2019 , priced at 99.771 to yield 8.457 % . 
ITT Financial Corp. -- $ 150 million of 8.35 % subordinated notes due Nov. 1 , 2004 , priced at 99.85 to yield 8.387 % . 
There are $ 46,245,000 of 7 % term bonds due 2009 , priced at 97 7\/8 to yield 7.20 % , and $ 64.9 million of 7.1 % term bonds due 2016 , priced at 98 1\/4 to yield 7.25 % . 
Beverly Hills , Calif. -- $ 116,385,000 of refunding certificates of participation -LRB- civic center improvements project -RRB- , due 1990-2004 , 2007 , 2016 and 2019 , tentatively priced by a Goldman , Sachs & Co. group to yield from 6 % in 1990 to 7.19 % in 2016 . 
They are all priced at par . 
There are $ 12,915,000 of 7 % term certificates due 2007 , priced to yield 7.15 % . 
Michigan -- $ 80 million of first general obligation bonds -LRB- Series 1989 environmental protection program and recreation program -RRB- , tentatively priced by a Shearson Lehman Hutton group to yield from 6 % for current interest bonds due 1990 to 7.25 % for convertible capital appreciation bonds . 
Environmental protection program current interest bonds are due 1995-1999 , 2005 and 2009 . They are tentatively priced to yield from 6.45 % in 1995 to 7.10 % in 2009 . 
Environmental protection program current interest bonds are due 1995-1999 , 2005 and 2009 . They are tentatively priced to yield from 6.45 % in 1995 to 7.10 % in 2009 . The standard capital appreciation bonds in the issue , due 1998-2011 , yield to maturity from 6.70 % in 1998 to 7.10 % in 2009-2011 . 
Convertible capital appreciation bonds with a final stated maturity of Nov. 15 , 2014 , convert Nov. 15 , 1999 . 
Kingdom of Morocco -- $ 208 million -LRB- redemption amount -RRB- of zero-coupon government trust certificates , with maturities stretching from May 15 , 1990 , to Nov. 15 , 1999 , priced at yields ranging from 8.23 % to 8.43 % . 
Every day , Mr. Levy checks orders from Campeau department store chains , trying to guess if he will be paid . 
Orders from Campeau retailers used to be cause for celebration . 
`` It 's all anybody wants to talk about , '' says Richard Posner , executive vice president for Credit Exchange Inc. , a leading credit service . 
`` The few million dollars I could lose today is nothing against what I could lose on the spring line , '' says Mr. Levy , who estimates that Campeau stores will sell $ 25 million worth of his clothes this year . 
`` I 'm buying fabric right now for clothes which I may not be paid for until April or May . 
Some credit concerns , such as Bernard Sands Credit Consultants Inc. , have told clients not to ship anything to Federated or Allied stores on credit . 
`` This is especially true for spring merchandise , '' says Jim Rindos , credit manager at Bernard Sands . 
Other credit houses , such as Credit Exchange and Solo Credit Service Corp. , are suggesting that their clients study each order before shipping . 
`` Payments are good right now , but we are n't recommending any long-term lines of credit , '' says Richard Hastings , a retail credit analyst , referring to credit lines which make inventory purchases automatic . 
Because of those concerns , some manufacturers say they will ask for letters of credit before shipping spring merchandise . 
Howard Bloom , president of the dress firm Chetta B Inc. , says : `` It 's big time chaos today . 
I 'm going to ship and hope I get paid . 
Carol Sanger , vice president , corporate communications at Campeau , says that all of the Federated and Allied chains are paying their bills in a timely manner . 
`` They continue to pay their bills and will do so , '' says Ms. Sanger . 
Typically , manufacturers are paid 10 days after the month in which they ship . 
But manufacturers now buying fabric for spring season goods wo n't be paid until March , April or even May . 
`` Everybody is worried about the possibility of cancellations , '' says Kurt Barnard , publisher of Barnard 's Retail Marketing Report . 
`` The buyers who work for the various Campeau chains may lose their jobs . 
The stores they work for may be sold . 
`` Right now , Federated owes us a considerable amount of money , '' says Morris Marmalstein , president of David Warren Enterprises , a major dress manufacturer . 
Mr. Marmalstein adds that his company is now holding some goods in anticipation of being paid in full . 
`` Business has never been this tough before . 
Other manufacturers are equally cautious . 
Bud Konheim , president of Nicole Miller Inc. , says his company is now shipping only to the flagship stores of the Federated and Allied chains . 
`` The branches are just warmed over , empty halls , '' says Mr. Konheim . 
`` Why should I be part of that problem ? 
Campeau 's Ms. Sanger disputes Mr. Konheim 's comments . 
`` Many of the branches are very lucrative , '' she says . 
As for Mr. Levy at St. Gillian , he says he will maintain his credit lines with the various Campeau stores unless they miss a payment . 
Of all the major steelmakers , Bethlehem would seem to be the most vulnerable to a slowdown . 
However , in spite of the difficult industrywide environment of high cost and low volume , Bethlehem `` had pretty good earnings numbers , '' said Michelle Galanter Applebaum , an analyst with Salomon Brothers Inc . 
Still , Bethlehem 's core basic steel operations experienced a steep drop in operating profit to $ 58.6 million from $ 186.4 million a year ago , when the industry enjoyed strong demand and pricing . 
Armco , hampered by lower volume in its specialty steel business , said third-quarter net income dropped 8 % to $ 33 million , or 35 cents a share , from $ 36 million , or 39 cents a share in the year-ago quarter . 
Along with reduced volume , analysts said the nation 's fifth largest steelmaker was hurt by holding higher-cost inventory when raw material costs of such key products as nickel dropped . 
National Intergroup , which owns 50 % of the nation 's sixth largest steelmaker -- National Steel Corp. -- posted net income for the fiscal second-quarter of $ 8.6 million , or 33 cents a share , compared with a net loss of $ 50.3 million . 
The latest period includes gains of $ 9.1 million from early retirement of debt and tax loss carry-forward . 
And IBM worries that the Japanese will take over that equipment market , too , unless U.S. semiconductor companies produce enough memory chips here to keep U.S. equipment makers healthy . 
IBM also said it expects to benefit from the expertise that Motorola and other companies can bring to bear on the difficult problems involved in semiconductor manufacturing . 
IBM said it expects industrywide efforts to become prevalent because semiconductor manufacturing has become so expensive . 
But it said that was mainly because the project may not bear fruit until the mid-1990s . 
X-rays have problems , too . 
Bertin Nadeau , newly appointed chairman and interim chief executive of Provigo , would n't say if Mr. Lortie was asked to leave . 
`` Mr. Lortie felt less pertinent , '' Mr. Nadeau said , given the decision to dump Provigo 's non-food operations . 
Investors and analysts applauded the news . 
`` I think it 's a pretty positive development , '' said Ross Cowan , a financial analyst with Levesque Beaubien Geoffrion Inc. , of the decision to concentrate on groceries . 
Mr. Lortie 's departure , while sudden , was seen as inevitable in light of the shift in strategy . 
Provigo 's profit record over the past two years tarnished the company 's and Mr. Lortie 's reputations . 
For the six months ended Aug. 12 , Provigo posted net income of C$ 6.5 million , or eight Canadian cents a share , compared with C$ 18.1 million , or 21 Canadian cents a share , a year earlier . 
For the six months ended Aug. 12 , Provigo posted net income of C$ 6.5 million , or eight Canadian cents a share , compared with C$ 18.1 million , or 21 Canadian cents a share , a year earlier . Sales were C$ 4.2 billion compared with C$ 3.7 billion . 
Analysts are skeptical Provigo will be able to sell the non-food businesses as a group for at least book value , and are expecting write-downs . 
Mr. Nadeau said he could n't yet say if the sale prices would match book values . 
Mr. Nadeau said discussions are under way with potential purchasers of each of the units . 
Yvon Bussieres was named senior executive vice president and chief operating officer of Provigo , a new position . 
In late New York trading yesterday , the dollar was quoted at 1.8353 marks , down from 1.8355 marks Tuesday , and at 141.52 yen , up from 141.45 yen late Tuesday . 
Lawrence Insurance also sold 3.2 million of its shares for $ 7.125 each to its parent , Lawrence Group Inc . 
`` United pilots have shown on a number of occasions they are willing and able to strike , '' said an executive at Fuji Bank , one of UAL 's large lenders . 
The two unions already had significant leverage simply because their employer has yet to settle with either on new contracts . 
Thus , even investors who are pushing for the board to do a recapitalization that would pay shareholders a special dividend and possibly grant employees an ownership stake acknowledge that the unions are key . 
Both the pilots and machinists have made it clear that they intend to block any transaction they do n't like . 
The pilots ' Mr. Dubinsky says his union would like majority ownership for employees . 
Still , in recent days , machinists ' union leaders have shown some new flexibility . 
The pilots ' insistence on majority ownership also may make the idea of a recapitalization difficult to achieve . 
`` Who wants to be a public shareholder investing in a company controlled by the pilots ' union ? '' asks Candace Browning , an analyst at Wertheim Schroeder & Co . 
Another possibility is for the pilots ' to team up with an outside investor who might try to force the ouster of the board through the solicitation of consents . 
`` I think the dynamics of this situation are that something 's got to happen , '' said one official familiar with the situation . 
The board and UAL 's management , he says , `` ca n't go back '' to business as usual . 
`` The key to Delta 's record earnings continued to be excellent passenger revenue growth , '' said Thomas Roeck , chief financial officer . 
Revenue rose 21 % to $ 243.4 million from $ 201.2 million . 
For the nine months , America West posted earnings of $ 18.9 million , or 97 cents a share , compared with a loss of $ 9.7 million , or 74 cents a share , a year earlier . 
Columbia also added $ 227.3 million to reserves for losses on the portfolio , increasing general reserves to $ 300 million , or about 6.7 % of the total portfolio , as of Sept. 30 . 
Previously , Columbia did n't have to adjust the book value of its junk-bond holdings to reflect declines in market prices , because it held the bonds as long-term investments . 
Its shares closed at $ 5.125 each in composite New York Stock Exchange trading , down 37.5 cents . 
The price of Columbia shares has been cut nearly in half since August , when they traded at about $ 10 , as investors apparently realized that the thrift would be forced to take a big write-down . 
Columbia officials also said the thrift should n't face problems meeting regulatory capital requirements , despite the large reserves and write-downs and stiffer regulatory requirements that should be in place by year 's end . 
Over the summer , Anheuser competitors offered more and deeper discounts than industry observers have seen for a long time . 
The St. Louis company said major rivals , Philip Morris Co. 's Miller Brewing unit and Adolph Coors Co. `` have been following a policy of continuous and deep discounting for at least the past 18 months '' on their premium brands , pricing their product as much as 25 cents a 12-pack below Anheuser 's Budweiser label in many markets . 
Anheuser-Busch announced its plan at the same time it reported third-quarter net income rose a lower-than-anticipated 5.2 % to $ 238.3 million , or 83 cents a share , from $ 226.5 million , or 78 cents . 
Anheuser said its new strategy -- started in some markets last month and expected to be applied soon in selected markets nationwide -- will mean lower-than-anticipated earnings for the last half of 1989 and for 1990 . 
The projection sent Anheuser shares plunging $ 4.375 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday . 
The projection sent Anheuser shares plunging $ 4.375 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday . The stock closed at $ 38.50 on heavy volume of about 3.5 million shares . 
`` We can not permit a further slowing in our volume trend , '' Anheuser said , adding it will take `` appropriate competitive pricing actions to support our long-term market share growth strategy '' for the premium brands . 
Beneath the tepid news-release jargon lies a powerful threat from the brewing giant , which last year accounted for about 41 % of all U.S. beer sales and is expected to see that grow to 42.5 % in the current year . 
`` Anheuser is the biggest guy in the bar , and he just decided to join in the barroom brawl , '' said Joseph J. Doyle , an analyst with Smith Barney , Harris Upham & Co . 
Prudential-Bache Securities Inc. analyst George E. Thompson downplayed the importance of the announcement , and called any comparison between the coming beer-industry tiff and the seemingly unending `` cola wars , '' unwarranted . 
But Smith Barney 's Mr. Doyle , who yesterday trimmed his 1990 Anheuser earnings projection to $ 2.95 a share from $ 3.10 , called the market 's reaction `` justified . '' 
According to Mr. Steinman , the newsletter publisher , Anheuser 's market share is nearly twice that of its nearest competitor , Miller Brewing , which had a 21.2 % stake last year . 
It 's followed by Stroh Brewery Co. , which has agreed to sell its assets to Coors . 
Tokyo stocks closed easier for the second consecutive day , finishing at the intraday low on index-linked investment trust fund selling toward the end of the afternoon session . 
Trading was active . 
But losers were spread in a broad range by the end of the session . 
A trader at Yamaichi Securities said the market 's mood was undercut by the continuing fall of Nippon Telegraph & Telephone shares , which declined to their lowest level since the begining of this year . 
Other losing issues included Showa Shell , which fell 40 to 1,520 . 
Pioneer Electronic and Sony , both of which dominated buying earlier this month , continued to fall Wednesday . 
The Financial Times 100-share index finished at 2161.9 , up 12.6 points . 
Among them were B.A.T Industries , which settled 6 pence a share lower at 753 -LRB- $ 12.10 -RRB- . 
Jaguar was boosted 21 to 715 on follow-through buying after Ford Motor 's announcement Tuesday that it might be prepared to mount a full bid for the U.K. luxury auto maker . 
Frankfurt prices closed sharply lower in thin dealings , hurt by the roller-coaster session on Wall Street Tuesday and worries about wage demands by the largest West German trade union . 
`` It was dead , listless , depressing and negative , '' said one trader at a U.S. bank in Frankfurt . 
Tough talk from trade union officials at the conference of the powerful IG Metall metals worker union in West Berlin raised the specter of nationwide strikes next spring , they said . 
Deutsche Bank plummeted 12 to 645 , hurt by the general mood . 
Meanwhile , Wall Street 's volatility unnerved investors in other markets . 
Among Pacific markets , prices closed lower in Sydney , Seoul , Hong Kong , Manila , Singapore and Wellington . 
To make them directly comparable , each index is based on the close of 1969 equaling 100 . 
State-controlled Orkem already owns 40.6 % of Coates . 
The 231-191 roll call illustrates the limits of power a resurgent abortion-rights movement still faces . 
Yesterday 's vote dealt with the largest of these bills , an estimated $ 156.7 billion measure funding the departments of Labor , Education , and Health and Human Services . 
But the stark numbers yesterday -- when 282 votes were needed -- indicate the president is in a commanding position for at least this year . 
The action came as Congress sent to the president last night a stopgap spending bill to keep the government operating through Nov. 15 and provide $ 2.85 billion in emergency funds to assist in the recovery from Hurricane Hugo and the California earthquake . 
The bill last night includes $ 500 million to help finance this credit and further raises the obligation ceiling for the Small Business Administration sixfold to $ 1.8 billion to accommodate the expected loan activity . 
In the Senate , Majority Whip Alan Cranston used his position to win not only the expanded credit but also more generous treatment than the House had permitted in the distribution of highway funds in the next six months . 
The underlying stopgap bill is the second required by Congress this fall and , since the current fiscal year began Oct. 1 , only the Energy and Interior departments are operating on permanent appropriations enacted into law . 
The vote yesterday was the most partisan in many years , and though the Democratic leadership is ambivalent about how to address the abortion issue , the debate is increasingly measured in party terms . 
By comparison , Republicans have held closer to the anti-abortion movement . 
But after years of using the issue for its benefit , the GOP finds its candidates on the defensive . 
In an extraordinary mix of cultures and church-state powers , Rep. Robert Dornan -LRB- R. , Calif . -RRB- lectured his fellow Roman Catholics -- including Mr. Florio -- for having the `` chutzpah '' to disagree with the hierarchy of their church on abortion . 
Rep. Les AuCoin was as blunt on behalf of the abortion-rights movement . 
Separately , the House last night approved a nearly $ 67 billion compromise spending bill providing the first construction funds for the administration 's ambitious space station in fiscal 1990 and incorporating far-reaching provisions affecting the federal mortgage market . 
Also participating in the issue was Servifilm Spain Cinematografica S.A . 
The cash injection boosted Zeta 's capital more than four-fold , to 8.47 billion pesetas from 1.82 billion pesetas , greatly enhancing the group 's ability to make investments , Zeta officials said . 
Already , many of the Big Board 's own floor traders are warning that the ESP baskets are risky and not in the best interests of the investing public . 
`` The New York Stock Exchange is losing its cool here , '' said James Andrews , head of institutional trading at Janney Montgomery Scott Inc. in Philadelphia . 
Both the Big Board 's Exchange Stock Portfolio and the Chicago exchange 's Market Basket are designed for institutional investors . 
At the same time , only four securities firms have signed up with the Big Board to buy and sell ESPs as market makers , an unenthusiastic response . 
Traders said major securities firms are reluctant to become market makers because they fear the baskets may attract only limited trading . 
With the futures locked into a trading halt Oct. 13 and trading in some individual stock difficult , program traders would have undoubtedly fled to the basket system , the traders say . 
The loss in Comprehensive Care 's latest quarter is equal to 46 cents a share . 
Officials of Pittsburgh-based H.H. Robertson , which makes steel roofs , store fronts and building parts , declined comment . 
Meanwhile , within the next few weeks , the limited partners in Ivan F. Boesky & Co . L.P. are expected to reach a partial settlement with Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. regarding the distribution of the $ 330 million in partnership assets , said one of the individuals . 
Attorneys involved in the talks said that the parties were closer to accord than they were a year ago , when reports of an imminent agreement circulated . 
The plaintiffs are investors who bought and sold securities in which Mr. Boesky and his partnerships were dealing . 
Charles Davidow , of the Washington , D.C.-based law firm Wilmer , Cutler & Pickering , which represents Mr. Boesky in this matter , said only that `` discussions are under way . 
U.S. District Judge Robert P. Patterson Jr. ordered the FBI to immediately begin processing Herman Benjamin Ferguson 's request for documents stemming from the agency 's investigation of him during the 1960s . 
Mr. Ferguson , who is 68 years old , fled the U.S. in 1970 after exhausting his appeals of a 1968 conviction on conspiracy to murder . 
He turned himself in to authorities in New York earlier this year . 
He maintains that the information from the FBI will help him get his 1968 conviction vacated and his bail-jumping indictment dismissed . 
The Washington , D.C. , think tank recommends that the courts adopt different `` tracks '' for different types of civil cases in order to separate the handling of highly complex suits from simpler ones . 
Complex cases , such as antitrust suits and many business disputes , would receive intense supervision by federal judges to keep pretrial proceedings moving . 
Although some of the study 's recommendations resemble those of similar projects , the makeup of the task force was unusually diverse , adding significance to the effort . 
Businessland Inc. said it purchased a major regional computer retailer , Data Systems Computer Centre Inc. , Springfield , New Jersey . 
The purchase strengthens San Jose , Calif.-based Businessland 's links to the large corporations who are among the biggest buyers of computers . 
In a related matter , Peter Black , president of consumer brand Minwax , was named group vice president for the household products operating group . 
The New York-based company reported a third-quarter net loss of $ 5.1 million , or 10 cents a share , compared with a year-earlier net loss of $ 6.2 million , or 12 cents a share . 
West Texas Intermediate , the U.S. benchmark crude , seemed tethered again yesterday in trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange . 
The market quickly discounted the weekly inventory report showing a 6.3 million barrel decrease in U.S. crude oil stocks as the legacy of Hurricane Jerry . 
That storm hit the Gulf Coast Oct. 13 , closing the Louisiana Offshore Oil Port for a time and preventing tankers from unloading . 
Dismissing the trade group 's numbers left traders plenty of time to worry anew about the latest reports on OPEC production . 
An AP-Dow Jones survey of integrated oil companies , independent refiners , and oil industry consultants indicates that the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries increased its production to 22.2 million barrels a day in September . 
To top off the bearish factors affecting yesterday 's trading , late October weather , especially in the Northeast U.S. , continues to be very moderate , leaving heating oil futures trading lackluster . 
Wheat futures prices fell , however , at least partly in reaction to the rumored selling of futures contracts equal to several million bushels of wheat by commodity speculator Richard Dennis . 
As for corn and soybean futures , `` a lot of commission house buying this morning and computer-driven buying '' supported prices in early trading , said Steven Freed , a futures analyst with Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. in Chicago . 
Soybean futures for November delivery gained 5.25 cents a bushel to close at $ 5.66 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade . 
Announced and anticipated purchases from foreign countries are also supporting futures prices . 
`` Russian ships are arriving in the gulf and there is n't enough grain in the pipeline , '' said Katharina Zimmer , a futures analyst with Merrill Lynch & Co. in New York . 
Futures prices rose modestly , but trading volume was n't very heavy . 
Several cotton analysts said that the move appeared to be mostly technical . 
Traders who had sold contracts earlier , in hopes of buying them back at lower prices , yesterday were buying contracts back at higher prices to limit their losses . 
One floor trader said that if there were Chinese purchases , they should have had a bigger effect on the market . 
Another said that if China was a buyer , it would be the earliest that country had made purchases since the 1979-80 crop year , and thus would be a bullish sign . 
This trader characterized the recent price action as a contest between the fundamentalists , who see higher prices ahead , and the technicians , who are basically buying cotton toward the bottom of the current trading range , around 71 cents , and selling it when the price climbs more than 74 cents . 
The modest sell-off , which started on Tuesday , continued . 
The market is drifting , at least partly , because of a lack of crop information out of Ghana and the Ivory Coast , the two largest African producers . 
Harry Schwartz , a soft commodity specialist for Cargill Investors Services in New York , said the only report Ghana has issued about the arrival of cocoa from the interior was for 7,839 metric tons as of Oct. 12 . 
A similar situation apparently exists in the Ivory Coast with no figures released yet this year , compared with 55,000 tons as of this time a year ago . 
However , the French merchant has about 200,000 tons of old crop Ivory Coast cocoa stored in the Netherlands from an agreement it had negotiated with the Ivory Coast last spring . 
Cargill thinks that even though the merchant has a contract stating that it wo n't bring this cocoa to market until after March 1991 , there is some evidence the contract has been modified . 
Richard D. Sutton , 64 years old , chairman of this bank-holding company , was named acting president and chief executive officer of the company and its First National Bank of Toms River subsidiary . 
Earlier , American Medical said it had been approached again by two other possible suitors , whom it would n't identify but who had previously submitted bids for the company . 
American Medical said its directors have approved what is , in effect , a draft of a solvency opinion on the acquisition , submitted by the Los Angeles-based investment banking and evaluation consulting firm of Houlian Lokey Howard & Zukin Inc . 
Separately , Moody 's Investors Service Inc. downgraded the ratings of American Medical 's senior and subordinated debt issues and those of its international affiliate . 
The ratings concern said the acquisition should result in pretax losses from operations because of increases in interest expense and charges for depreciation and amortization , but that it expects the losses to be reduced through productivity gains and above average growth of the company 's hospitals . 
The real estate investment trust said the `` purported class action suit , '' seeks `` damages and other remedies under federal securities law and state law . '' 
Gerald E. Wilson , corporate secretary and legal counsel , said the company would n't disclose further details . 
Bay , which has substantial investments in the floundering Massachusetts market , reported a loss of $ 62 million , or $ 15.97 a share , for the fiscal year ended June 30 . 
This will include the sale of its interest in the joint venture Beghin Corbehem to Feldemuehle AG . 
A committee of outside directors for the Garden City , N.Y. , unit is evaluating the proposal ; the parent asked it to respond by Oct. 31 . 
Separately , Esselte Business Systems reported third-quarter net income fell 5.9 % to $ 9.5 million , or 46 cents a share , from $ 10.1 million , or 49 cents a share , in the year-ago period . 
Industry officials and congressional aides said that the main points of a compromise defense authorization bill , hammered out during a flurry of private meetings over the past few days , provide a face-saving compromise for both the White House and House Democrats . 
The Senate voted to authorize $ 4.5 billion for SDI spending in the current fiscal year , but the House , reflecting a dramatic erosion of support for the program , earmarked only $ 3.1 billion . 
Despite the widening gap between the two sides , conferees eventually followed the pattern set in previous years by opting to roughly split the difference . 
The decision to keep the embattled F-14 's production line running for at least another year is an important victory for the House , and especially for Rep. Les Aspin -LRB- D. , Wis . -RRB- . 
And lawmakers are putting the finishing touches on a compromise that would give the Air Force nearly all of the $ 2.4 billion it wants for production of Northrop Corp. 's radar-eluding B-2 bombers , which cost $ 530 million apiece . 
The Menlo Park , Calif. , company said net was $ 7.4 million , or 22 cents a share , down from $ 32.3 million , or 86 cents a share , a year ago . 
Analysts had expected Consolidated to post a slim profit , and the company 's stock was down only 25 cents to $ 30.25 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday . 
The average drifted in a trading range of about 30 points throughout the day . 
The lower boundary was established just after the opening in a brief round of selling 
`` People are sort of nervous to do anything in the market now . 
The gross national product report , due to be released before today 's opening , is expected to show that the economy continued to expand in the third quarter at a moderate pace . 
But General Motors dropped 1 7\/8 to 44 7\/8 . 
Anheuser-Busch plunged 4 3\/8 to 38 1\/2 on 3.5 million shares . 
Xerox fell 3 1\/8 to 59 5\/8 . 
Computer Associates International , the most active Big Board issue , was another victim of an earnings-related sell-off . 
Chubb , whose net income for the quarter exceeded most analysts ' expectations , rallied 3 3\/4 to 86 1\/2 . 
Comprehensive Care plunged 4 3\/4 to 3 5\/8 on 1.2 million shares . 
TW Services dropped 1 1\/4 to 31 1\/4 following the postponement of a $ 1.4 billion junk-bond offering that would have permitted Coniston Partners to complete its takeover of the company . 
Other airline stocks were mixed . 
AMR , which owns American Airlines , rose 3 3\/8 to 72 1\/4 
Stocks that reportedly benefited Tuesday from a Japanese buy program handled by PaineWebber gave back some of their gains . 
General Mills gained 2 1\/4 to 72 7\/8 . 
Goldman Sachs placed the stock back on its list of recommended issues , raised its 1990 earnings estimate and recommended that its clients shift funds from Kellogg to General Mills . 
Manville advanced 3\/4 to 10 . 
Di Giorgio gained 1 to 30 3\/4 after the company said it is starting negotiations with unidentified parties interested in acquiring its units . 
Esselte Business Systems rose 1 to 43 1\/2 . 
Public Service of New Hampshire went up 3\/8 to 4 . 
The American Stock Exchange Market Value Index fell 0.44 to 375.92 . 
Mission Resource Partners lost 5 1\/4 to 14 1\/8 . 
At Canon Inc. , for example , sales are up nearly 20 % this year ; so , the maker of cameras and computer printers is doing what any Japanese company would do under the circumstances 
At Canon Inc. , for example , sales are up nearly 20 % this year ; so , the maker of cameras and computer printers is doing what any Japanese company would do under the circumstances : It is increasing capital spending -- by 60 % . 
It is building , among other things , a new laser-beam-printer factory in western Japan that can produce up to 150,000 printers next year . 
Even companies in smokestack industries wrestling with world-wide overcapacity are joining the boom . 
Japan 's steelmakers are raising capital spending 22 % this year to $ 4.8 billion . 
From a financial standpoint , the boom could n't come at a better time . 
But some economists and government officials here are n't applauding . 
They fear that the boom may be too big for Japan 's or anyone else 's good . 
`` It 's an explosive cocktail '' thrown at the world , says Kenneth Courtis , senior economist at the Tokyo unit of Deutsche Bank Group . 
The Ministry of International Trade and Industry is so concerned that it recently took the unusual step of urging Japanese auto companies to exercise caution in capital spending . 
Not everyone is worried , however . 
Some economists -- and many Japanese companies -- are puzzled by the warnings . 
Moreover , much investment is n't aimed at increasing capacity . 
According to a survey of some 2,400 large companies by the Japan Development Bank , expanded capacity is the goal of just 51.8 % of the outlays 
According to a survey of some 2,400 large companies by the Japan Development Bank , expanded capacity is the goal of just 51.8 % of the outlays ; for manufacturers alone , the figure is 32 % . 
But the worriers remain unconvinced . 
And eventually , they contend , domestic demand will weaken , forcing companies to emphasize exports again . 
Japanese auto makers , for example , are increasing their production capacity in the 
In contrast to previous economic booms , Japanese auto companies are n't just trying to boost production . 
Many are pouring money into developing high-quality products to target affluent consumers and , to some extent , to avoid direct combat with cheaper cars from South Korea and Taiwan . 
Many are pouring money into developing high-quality products to target affluent consumers and , to some extent , to avoid direct combat with cheaper cars from South Korea and Taiwan . Others are replacing older facilities with flexible assembly lines on which different models can be turned out at once . 
But whatever its effects on exports and imports , Japan 's investment boom during the past two years has been stimulated at least partly by soaring domestic demand . 
Japanese consumers are increasingly eager to spend their money , especially on high-priced goods such as 29-inch television sets and luxury cars . 
`` One dealer told me that if he had more cars , he 'd sell them right away , '' says Takuro Endo , Nissan executive vice president . 
Among them are the shipbuilders , which had halved their shipyard work forces to cut costs during a prolonged slump in demand but now are capturing an increased share of the strengthening global market . 
Once one Japanese company steps up its investments , the whole industry follows . 
The emphasis on market share is evident at Daikin Industries Ltd. , Japan 's biggest maker of industrial air conditioners . 
Seeing new office buildings sprout up and its sales soar , Daikin is building another plant , which will lift its production capacity 50 % . 
Besides , Daikin 's major competitors , Hitachi Ltd. and Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. , `` are all adding production lines , '' a Daikin spokesman says . 
The competition is even more heated in the auto industry , where companies are racing one another in a world-wide market . 
Nissan aims to expand its 25 % share of the market to 30 % by spending $ 141 million on a plant in southern Japan that could make as many as 240,000 cars a year . Meanwhile , Toyota Motor Corp. 's $ 247 million buildup is increasing its annual capacity by 180,000 cars , and Honda is spending $ 317 million on expansion . 
Those who are n't worried about how Japanese manufacturers ' investments will affect trade note that many new products are n't replacements for imports . 
Toshiba Corp. , for example , is spending $ 986 million on two new plants to build four-megabit dynamic random access memories , the next generation of computer chips . 
Meanwhile , Toshiba 's Japanese rivals , Hitachi , Fujitsu Ltd. and NEC Corp. , are n't sitting still . 
After doubling production in one plant , NEC is spending $ 275 million to build another plant that , in two years , will be able to make a million four-megabit DRAMs a year . 
The new chip plants `` wo n't be excessive investment , '' says Hajime Sasaki , an NEC vice president . 
Some of Japan 's goods being produced as a result of the investment boom are already successful overseas . 
Toyota 's $ 35,000 Lexus automobile , a luxury model that it started shipping to the U.S. only last month , is racking up orders at a time when U.S.-made luxury-car sales are slow . 
Japanese companies have a caveat competitor attitude . 
If excess capacity develops , they say , not everyone will suffer . 
The company said the restructuring 's initial phase will feature a gradual reduction in assets and staff positions . 
Net income fell 37 % to $ 32.9 million , or 30 cents a share , from $ 52.2 million , or 48 cents a share , in the year-ago period . 
Amdahl 's results were somewhat worse than expected . 
The drug will be given treatment investigational new drug status , a label accorded to drugs believed effective but lacking formal approval . 
So far , AIDS has stricken 1,859 children under age 13 , with many times that number believed to carry the infection without symptoms . 
`` Thank goodness it 's happening . 
It should have happened sooner , '' said Elizabeth Glaser , a Los Angeles mother and activist who contracted the AIDS virus through a blood transfusion , and transmitted it to two of her children . 
To watch your child die is an inhuman experience . '' `` But my daughter could n't , until she was too ill to take it . 
The delay in getting AZT to children has been blamed on a combination of factors . 
`` My first reaction is I do n't understand why it 's taken so long . 
`` While I 'm pleased the FDA is finally releasing AZT for children , it 's taken much too long to get to this point , '' said Rep. Ted Weiss . 
`` There 's no finger to be pointed , '' she said . 
AIDS dementia -- which gradually steals children 's ability to speak , walk and think -- is often the most striking aspect of the pediatric syndrome . 
Currently , Avon , based in Santa Monica , Calif. , has 3.3 million common shares outstanding . 
About 1.1 million Class C warrants were issued , the company said . 
Each of the Class C warrants will enable the holders to purchase one share of common stock at $ 5.50 . 
Avon also said it will issue an additional 243,677 of the Class C warrants to holders of its Class A , Class B and unclassified warrants . 
THE BIG BOARD PLANS to launch its own vehicle for program trading today amid growing controversy over the practice . 
The new `` baskets '' of stocks will allow big investors to buy or sell all 500 S&P index stocks in a single trade . 
The main capital-gains tax plan in the Senate is n't winning support from Democrats who favor a reduction . 
Financial markets quieted , with stock prices edging lower , bonds inching up and the dollar almost unchanged . 
GM 's Hughes Electronics unit said profit slid 22 % in the third quarter . 
Campeau reportedly may receive a $ 1.3 billion offer for Bloomingdale 's from Tokyu Department Store of Japan . 
Stocks : Volume 155,650,000 shares . 
The chamber voted 231-191 , 51 votes short of the two-thirds majority needed to overturn the president 's veto of legislation renewing support of Medicaid abortions for poor women who are victims of rape and incest . 
The FDA is expected to approve today a program granting access free of charge to the drug AZT for children with AIDS . 
NATO defense ministers said the 16-nation alliance continues to need a strong nuclear strategy despite political changes in Eastern Europe . 
The Justice Department indicated a possible challenge to a court order allowing former National Security Adviser Poindexter to subpoena ex-President Reagan 's personal papers for use in the defense case against Iran-Contra charges . 
A landslide engulfed a hillside slum in Sao Paulo , Brazil , and at least 20 people , most of them children , were missing and feared dead . 
Czechoslovakia 's premier said he supports broad political and economic restructuring , but ruled out any dialogue between Prague 's Communist government and independent human-rights or dissident groups . 
`` It certainly was n't intended to be a demotion , '' the spokesman said . 
`` Pete and Jeff and Joe Jr. have taken over the reins and are doing most of the work . 
Jeffrey , Peter and Joseph Jr. are brothers . 
William Coors is their uncle . Jeffrey , Peter and Joseph Jr. are brothers . 
Peter Coors runs the Coors Brewing Co. unit , the nation 's fourth-largest brewery that accounted for $ 1.24 billion of Adolph Coors 's $ 1.52 billion in 1988 sales . 
The current decline in failures continues a trend begun in late 1987 , D&B said . 
Failures in seven of nine regional areas fell more than 10 % in the nine months . 
A major Tokyo newspaper reported that a Japanese department store concern is planning to offer about $ 1.3 billion to buy Bloomingdale 's . 
A spokeswoman said Toronto-based Campeau has received `` expressions of interest '' in Bloomingdale 's , but she declined to comment on whether any actual bids had been made . 
Nihon Keizai Shimbun , Japan 's leading economic newspaper , reported Wednesday that Tokyu Department Store Co. is planning to team up with U.S. and Western European financing to buy the New York-based retail chain , which Campeau has put up for sale . 
`` This is the first of many rumors we expect to hear during the sale 's process , '' said a Bloomingdale 's spokesman . 
`` Nobody is going to make a real bid before the middle of November , '' said one investment banker familiar with the discussions in Japan . 
Bloomingdale 's is a 17-store chain acquired last year by Campeau in its $ 6.6 billion acquisition of Federated . 
The suit , filed in U.S. District Court in Manhattan , seeks class-action status . 
The suit accuses the retailer and several of its officers of making false and misleading statements about the company 's business affairs . 
According to Securities and Exchange Commission rules , McCaw is required to keep its offer for the cellular-phone and broadcasting concern open for at least five business days after the announcement of the financing , LIN said . 
Last week , McCaw said it obtained `` firm '' financing commitments from three major banks in regard to its bid to control LIN Broadcasting . 
A spokesman for McCaw said the company was `` moving forward with our financing . '' 
StatesWest asked Mesa to repond by Oct. 31 . 
The catalog retailer reported net income of $ 10.8 million , or 21 cents a share , up sharply from $ 6.6 million , or 13 cents a share , a year earlier . 
Spiegel said margins improved because its inventory position this year did n't need the costly markdowns required to trim last year 's swollen levels . 
A spokeswoman said the apparel market troughed in the first half of 1988 , then began showing improvement in the second half of last year . 
For the latest nine months , Spiegel 's net climbed a solid 47 % to $ 23.8 million , or 46 cents a share , from $ 16.2 million , or 34 cents . 
For the latest nine months , Spiegel 's net climbed a solid 47 % to $ 23.8 million , or 46 cents a share , from $ 16.2 million , or 34 cents . Unlike the quarter 's results , which were based on roughly equal shares outstanding , nine-month per-share figures reflect an increase in average common shares outstanding to 51.9 million from 47 million . 
The good news -- to fans of stable credit , at least -- is what the rejection says about the state of mind of junk buyers . 
But Coniston , a New York partnership managed by the firm of Gollust , Tierney & Oliver , yesterday announced that `` in view of unsettled conditions in securities markets '' the offering would be postponed and restructured . 
TW 's junk bonds were n't , as junk bonds go , unusually weak . 
`` But people do n't buy anything on expectation anymore , '' says Jack Utter , who manages the high-yield fund of IDS Financial Services . 
The TW buy-out may yet be financed . 
`` There is nothing wrong with the company , '' says Coniston principal Paul Tierney . 
Gollust , Tierney & Oliver is likely to contribute more than the $ 120 million in equity it had planned on . 
A DLJ banker , putting a best possible face on it , asserts that `` very few people said they did n't like the credit quality . 
The TW prospectus says that if the acquisition had been completed earlier , pretax earnings `` would have been insufficient to cover its fixed charges , including interest on debt securities , '' by approximately $ 62.7 million in the first six months of 1989 . 
But they wo n't necessarily eat at Denny 's . 
The fast-food business is `` intensely competitive , '' notes Wertheim Schroder analyst John Rohs . 
`` We were concerned that they were n't going to generate enough cash for capital spending and also to pay down debt , '' says a big investor in high-yield debt . 
But investors noted that under the shelved offering , TW would have needed to grow to meet its debt payments . 
The prospectus notes `` there can be no assurance '' that future growth will continue at past levels . 
In the recent past , bond buyers did n't seek such assurance . 
Maggie Thatcher must be doing something right 
`` A disastrous farce in Malaysia , '' screamed the Manchester Guardian . 
`` A disastrous farce in Malaysia , '' screamed the Manchester Guardian . `` She can no longer be trusted to behave in a civilised -- that is unflaky -- fashion when abroad . '' Egad . Canada 's Brian Mulroney and Australia 's Bob Hawke , the paper said , were `` enraged . '' 
As usual , her sin was saying what she thought . 
She issued a separate statement , separating herself from a Commonwealth document reasserting the political value of imposing sanctions against South Africa . 
Actually there is a consensus somewhere on sanctions 
Still , Mrs. Thatcher had once again gone against the grain . 
Malaysia 's Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad sniffed , `` If everybody else puts out their left foot and you put out your right foot , you are out of step . '' 
We can not , however , join the political chorus that as one proclaims how offputting it is that Mrs. Thatcher refuses to get along by going along . 
The man went back and spoke to the desk clerk : `` That sign is wrong , '' he said . 
But while the Composite gained 1.19 , to 462.89 , many issues did n't participate in the advance . 
`` It was a mixed bag , '' said Richard Bruno , who heads over-the-counter trading at PaineWebber . 
Volume totaled 132.1 million shares , which is about average for the year . 
Big financial stocks carried the day . 
Despite the Composite 's advance , some trading officials are guardedly optimistic that the market is on the road to recovery . 
Lance Zipper , head of over-the-counter trading at Kidder Peabody , said it is difficult to make predictions based on yesterday 's trading volume . 
`` The market acted better , but it was n't a tremendous comeback , '' Mr. Zipper observed . 
If E.E. `` Buzzy '' Geduld is right , a seatbelt may come in handy during the next few sessions . 
The president of Herzog , Heine , Mr. Geduld expects the market to be `` very choppy '' for a while . 
Among active stocks , MCI Communications rose 7\/8 to 43 on 2.2 million shares , Mentor Graphics added 1\/8 to 16 3\/8 on turnover of 1.5 million shares . 
Apple Computer dropped 1 1\/8 to 46 1\/2 on one million shares . 
Biotechnology issues were strong . 
Amgen advanced 1 1\/2 to 56 
Amgen advanced 1 1\/2 to 56 ; Chiron jumped 2 to 29 3\/4 
The American depositary receipts of Jaguar jumped 3\/8 to 11 5\/8 on turnover of 1.9 million . 
In a Securities and Exchange Commission filing , Ford said it holds 22.8 million ordinary shares . 
Other stocks were affected by corporate earnings . 
Cimflex Teknowledge rose 13\/16 , or 39 % , to 2 7\/8 on volume of 494,100 shares . 
Star States plunged 3 1\/4 to 8 3\/4 on 207,000 shares . 
Collagen dropped 2 5\/8 to 15 5\/8 on 428,000 shares . 
One day last March , CBS Sports President Neal Pilson and Olympics superagent Barry Frank met for lunch at the Lotos Club here . 
Mr. Frank told Mr. Pilson that Olympics officials wanted $ 290 million or more for TV rights to the 1994 Winter Games in Norway . 
At that price , CBS was the only player at the table when negotiations with the International Olympic Committee started in Toronto Aug. 23 . 
Mr. Pilson and his team huddled in a hallway and took just 10 minutes to return with a $ 300 million offer . 
Mr. Pound responded , `` It 's a deal . '' 
Mr. Pilson 's rivals at ABC and NBC grimaced at the price . 
With CBS Inc. on a spending spree that may top $ 2.5 billion for four years of major sports events , the new bout of hyperinflation could jolt the entire broadcast business . 
While rights fees head skyward , ad rates wo n't . 
Advertisers already are balking at higher prices . 
`` The networks are paying too much for rights , '' warns adman Paul Isacsson of Young & Rubicam . 
Viewers may not be cheering , either . 
Mr. Pilson emphasizes the ancillary benefits of positive press , contented affiliate stations , enthusiastic advertisers and huge audiences that might stick around to watch other CBS programs when the game is over . 
Some TV people doubt they will materialize and argue that even if they do , they wo n't offset the multimillion-dollar deficits that CBS could run up . 
CBS pursues top sports `` to belie the fact that they are n't supporting affiliates , viewers and advertisers , '' charges Thomas H. Wyman , who was ousted as chairman of CBS Inc. after Laurence A. Tisch bought a 24.9 % stake in the company and took over three years ago . 
On just three big deals -- for four years of baseball and for the Olympic Winter Games in both 1992 and 1994 -- Pilson bid a total of $ 1.64 billion . 
Now , Mr. Pilson -- a former college basketball player who says a good negotiator needs `` a level of focus and intellectual attention '' similar to a good athlete-s is facing the consequences of his own aggressiveness . 
Next month , talks will begin on two coveted CBS contracts , for the pro and college basketball finals . 
CBS is likely to spend whatever it takes to keep them . 
Next month , talks will begin on two coveted CBS contracts , for the pro and college basketball finals . CBS is likely to spend whatever it takes to keep them . The potential bill : more than $ 600 million for several seasons , an 80 % jump . 
A few months later , CBS 's college and pro football contracts come up for renewal 
`` What happens to those two basketball contracts will shape the next five years of network sports , '' says Peter Lund , a former CBS Sports president now at Multimedia Inc . 
Mr. Pilson is an unlikely big spender . 
`` And yet his company is one reason why rights are so high today . '' `` I love Pilson , but he was the guy who complained most bitterly and loudly , '' says Robert Wussler , a former CBS Sports president . 
But the 49-year-old Mr. Pilson is hardly a man to ignore the numbers . 
A Yale law school graduate , he began his career in corporate law and then put in years at Metromedia Inc. and the William Morris talent agency . 
Mr. Pilson says that when he spoke out a few years ago , `` I did n't say forever , and I did n't say every property . '' 
And he is n't the only big spender 
`` Our competitors say we overbid them . 
Mr. Pilson 's `` Major Events '' strategy jelled after Mr. Tisch took over . 
Then , in May 1988 , Mr. Tisch urgently needed to make a bold statement to quell rumors that he might sell the network . 
Mr. Pilson gave him one 
Mr. Pilson gave him one : He bid $ 243 million for rights to the 1992 Winter Games in Albertville , France 
It 's also a fast fix for an ailing image . 
`` I 've been struggling against that for years , '' says Jonathan Rodgers , who runs WBBM-TV , the CBS-owned station in Chicago . 
That is n't surprising . 
That will please once-grumpy affiliates -- another aim of the Pilson plan . 
They gleefully await the `` dream season '' in 1990 . 
CBS will air the Super Bowl , baseball playoffs , college and pro basketball finals and other premier sports events . 
The CBS plan to use big-time sports as a platform for other series carries no guarantee of success , however . 
The CBS plan to use big-time sports as a platform for other series carries no guarantee of success , however . No amount of hype will bring viewers back if the shows are weak . 
`` In this market of 40 channels , sophisticated viewers and the remote control , trial is n't a guarantee of anything , '' ESPN 's Mr. Werner says . 
During the 1984 Summer Games , for example , ABC touted `` Call to Glory , '' but the military drama was missing in action within weeks . 
Last October , during the 1988 Summer Games , NBC relentlessly pitched a new series , `` Tattingers . '' 
Moreover , sports is hardly the best way to lure adult women . 
Nor is CBS a shoo-in to get blockbuster ratings . 
Even the boon to affiliate relations may be limited . 
The sports lineup may add only 1 % to 5 % to a station 's annual profits . 
It alone is n't likely to stop a station from dumping CBS shows . 
`` The World Series , seven nights , was n't enough of an incentive , '' says Arnold Klinsky of WHEC-TV in Rochester , which dropped CBS for NBC six weeks ago . 
And avoiding such losses will take a monumental effort . 
Mr. Pilson calls that loss estimate `` wildly inaccurate , '' conceding only that CBS will lose money on baseball in the first year . 
It also indicates a $ 50 million drop in ad sales for regular-season games -- a risk CBS took to get an unprecedented lock on all playoff games . 
Advertisers are resisting higher prices , which would help close the gap . 
The Winter Games outlook also is mixed . 
CBS expects to make modest profits , but rivals contend that it will take a beating . 
ABC lost $ 75 million on the 1988 Winter Games , partly because of its $ 309 million rights fee . 
CBS will add 25 1\/2 hours to that load in 1992 , and ratings could be hurt by a lack of live events . 
All prime-time fare will be on tape-delay because of time differences with Norway , so the results can be announced on the 6 o'clock news . 
Barry Frank , the agent who took Mr. Pilson to lunch last March , says that even if CBS loses , say , $ 10 million , it matters little . 
`` Ten million ai n't jack , man , when you got $ 3 billion sitting in the bank , '' says Mr. Frank , senior vice president at International Management Group , citing CBS 's enormous cash reserves from selling off various businesses . 
Moreover , sports has `` claimed its place '' as a guaranteed ratings-getter , says David J. Stern , the commissioner of the National Basketball Association . 
`` This is n't outlandish bidding 
`` This is n't outlandish bidding ; this is a situation of very careful businessmen making judgments about the worth of product and acting on it ... . 
That 's easy for him to say 
And CBS takes in the least money in prime time 
But CBS 's costs are huge , and the risks go up with each new sports package that CBS locks up . 
Although sports officials predict jumps of 50 % to 100 % in the major contracts coming up for renewal , ad rates may rise only 20 % . 
But the savings will be minuscule . 
Each hour of Olympics and baseball in prime time will cost CBS $ 2.6 million to $ 2.8 million 
But media-stock analyst Richard J. MacDonald of MacDonald Grippo Riely says Wall Street wo n't take kindly to that . 
When Mr. Pilson is asked directly -- can you make money on all this ? -- he does n't exactly say yes . 
`` Yes , they are . 
Place a phone order through most any catalog and chances are the clerk who answers wo n't be the only one on the line . 
Or open up an electronics magazine and peruse the ads for sneaky tape recorders and other snooping gadgets . 
`` New technologies are changing the way we deal with each other and the way we work , '' says Janlori Goldman , a staff attorney at the American Civil Liberties Union . 
On the corporate side , companies claim that monitoring employee phone conversations is both legal and necessary to gauge productivity and ensure good service . 
The Communications Workers of America , which opposes such monitoring , says supervisors listen in on an estimated 400 million calls each year . 
Among companies saying they monitor employees are United Airlines , American Airlines , United Parcel Service , Nynex Corp. , Spiegel Inc. , and the circulation department of this newspaper . 
Businesses `` want to verify information and ensure accuracy , '' says John Hiltunen , Dictaphone 's manager of media relations . 
Merrill Lynch & Co. and Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. say they use voice-activated systems to record and verify orders between salesmen and traders . 
The Counter Spy Shop in Washington , D.C. , for instance , offers the `` Secret Connection '' attache case , which can surreptitiously record conversations for nine hours at a stretch . 
The most common use of spying devices is in divorce cases , say private investigators . 
Concerned with the increased availability of surveillance technology and heavier use of it , lawmakers have proposed laws addressing the issue . 
Two bills in Congress hope to make such restrictions national . 
The outlook on both federal bills is uncertain , especially remembering the 1987 defeat . 
Spiegel also opposes the beeper bill , saying the noise it requires would interfere with customer orders , causing irritation and even errors . `` I 'm sympathetic with workers who feel under the gun , '' says Richard Barton of the Direct Marketing Association of America , which is lobbying strenuously against the Edwards beeper bill . 
Laura Dale , center manager at the catalog company 's customer order center in Reno , Nev. , defends monitoring . 
John Bonomo , a Nynex spokesman , says the telephone company needs to monitor operators to evaluate performance during the first six months on the job . 
But opponents , led by the CWA , say new laws are needed because monitoring is heavily concentrated in service industries and 81 % of monitored workers are n't represented by unions . 
Meanwhile , supporters of the Dellums two-party consent bill say it is needed because of a giant loophole in the one-party consent law . 
Currently , if the person taping is a party to the conversation , it 's all right to record without the knowledge of the other person on the line . 
The electronics industry is closely following the Dellums bill . 
Radio Shack says it has a policy against selling products if a salesperson suspects they will be used illegally . 
`` Everything sold at Radio Shack has a legal purpose , '' says Bernard Appel , president of the Tandy Corp. subsidiary . 
A few years ago , the company voluntarily stopped selling `` The Big Ear , '' a powerful microphone . 
Digital , Maynard , Mass. , insisted yesterday that its marketing focus would differ sharply from IBM 's . 
`` This is not your father 's mainframe , '' said Allan McGuire , a Digital spokesman . 
IBM said the 16 new J and JH models will generally be available immediately , though three wo n't ship until the third quarter of next year . 
Prices on the larger models , which range as high as $ 13 million , generally wo n't change . 
Digital 's VAX 9000 mainframes , which it claimed were among the fastest available , were priced from $ 1.2 million to $ 3.9 million , sharply lower than IBM models of comparable power . 
Analysts were disappointed that Digital 's new line apparently wo n't contribute much to earnings before the next fiscal year , which begins in July . 
After the announcement yesterday , Digital shares gained $ 1.25 to close at $ 89.875 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading . 
Analysts have predicted strong pent-up demand for the new line among Digital 's customers . 
Large Digital buyers say the new VAX will let them stay with Digital when they need the power of a mainframe , instead of turning to IBM . 
Digital 's push into mainframes comes at a time when its mainstay minicomputer line is under growing pressure from smaller personal computers and workstations that operate on standard operating systems rather than on the proprietary systems that older minicomputers use . 
The slow-growing mainframe market also has shown new signs of life lately . 
`` Demand for these systems has been very , very strong , '' said Bill Grabe , a senior IBM marketing executive . 
IBM , Armonk , N.Y. , said it wanted to bring out the mainframes as soon as it could to spark as many sales as possible by the end of the year . 
IBM has already indicated it will have problems in the quarter , partly because of a delay in shipping a high-end disk drive and partly because the strong dollar will cut significantly the value of IBM 's overseas earnings when translated into dollars . 
In addition to the new mainframe hardware and software , IBM announced a magnetic-tape system for data storage that it said occupies half as much floor space as older systems but can store five times as much data on a single cartridge . 
Concord Camera Corp. completed the acquisition of Peter Bauser G.m.b . H. , a West German photographic products distributor . 
But now that Congress has missed the legal deadline for meeting the Gramm-Rudman targets , the White House said it has returned to its original view that a capital-gains cut should be part of the deficit-reduction bill , on which Congress continues to work . 
On Capitol Hill , though , there does n't seem to be sufficient sentiment to pair capital gains and the deficit-reduction bill . 
Meanwhile , President Bush stepped up his personal lobbying for the capital-gains tax cut . 
The products already available are cross-connect systems , used instead of mazes of wiring to interconnect other telecommunications equipment . 
AT&T predicted strong growth in demand for such products . 
While it is still too early to tell whether the dearth of takeover activity is only temporary , many lawyers say their firms are bracing for lower revenue from merger work , which has been so lucrative in the past . 
Much of this work was done for higher fees than other legal work and was not generally billed by the hour . 
`` We 're planning on a rip-roaring year in 1989 , but next year we 'll be another story , '' said Robert Freedman , a partner at Simpson Thacher & Bartlett . 
Lawyers at such firms as Sullivan & Cromwell ; Willkie Farr & Gallagher ; Wachtell , Lipton , Rosen & Katz ; and Fried , Frank , Harris , Shriver & Jacobson all say they , too , have experienced a significant slowdown , particularly during the past few weeks . 
`` Everyone is waiting to see if deals can be done at sensible prices and if money is available , '' said Jack Nusbaum , co-chairman of Willkie Farr . 
Some lawyers say the slump , while more obvious in recent weeks , began earlier this year . 
Still , some lawyers say the mergers slowdown has n't affected foreign buyers as much as domestic ones . 
Davis Polk & Wardwell also said its international clients are keeping mergers and acquisitions partners busy . 
The conversation was taped by federal investigators in what Mr. Lang said was an effort to get Mr. Lorin to implicate Mr. Laff . 
In March , Mr. Laff was indicted on 15 counts of conspiracy , mail and securities fraud , and obstructing an investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission . 
From the parts of the transcript read by Mr. Lang , it was unclear what exactly Mr. Lorin feared might happen . 
During the trial , Mr. Lang asked Mr. Lorin whether he had been so upset `` that you considered killing Mr. Laff ? ... Is n't it true that you were so worked up that framing Mr. Laff for this crime was the least that you planned for him ? '' 
Mr. Lorin responded , `` No . '' 
THE PHILADELPHIA law firm of Ballard , Spahr , Andrews & Ingersoll said three partners have joined its business and finance department . 
John Ake , 48 , a former vice-president in charge of legal compliance at American Capital Management & Research Inc. , in Houston , will join Ballard Spahr 's corporate-securities practice . 
John Ake , 48 , a former vice-president in charge of legal compliance at American Capital Management & Research Inc. , in Houston , will join Ballard Spahr 's corporate-securities practice . Kent Walker , 45 , a former partner at the Philadelphia law firm of Mesirov , Gelman , Jaffe , Cramer & Jamieson , will specialize in antitrust , real estate and mergers and acquisitions . 
Delmed said Robert S. Ehrlich resigned as chairman , president and chief executive . 
Mr. Ehrlich was succeeded as chairman by Gerd Krick , a director of Fresenius , a West German pharmaceutical concern . 
Fresenius owns about 42 % of Delmed 's fully diluted common stock . 
Yesterday , Delmed said it `` continues to explore the possibility of a combination with Fresenius USA . '' 
Kennametal is a carbide-products and cutting-tools company . 
Revenue rose 23 % to $ 100 million from $ 81.6 million . 
But TPA sales fell below levels for this year 's first and second quarter sales of $ 48 million , cooling investors . 
In the nine months , net income slid 21 % to $ 28.4 million , or 33 cents a share , from $ 36 million , or 42 cents a share . 
`` TPA sales are down quarter to quarter . 
Expenses are flat and that 's a good sign . 
Genentech faces competition in the cardiac-drug market from SmithKline Beecham PLC 's heart drug Eminase , expected to receive market approval shortly . And Genentech is n't likely to have any new products ready for market until at least 1992 , Ms. Gilbert added . 
THE AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY 'S 1988 costs of fund raising and administration were $ 72.4 million , or 23.2 % of its revenue . 
The previous year 's third quarter included gains on the sale of aircraft by the company 's Aviation Leasing & Services Division . 
Many analysts said they were n't surprised that problems in many of Ryder 's lines of business continued to plague the company . 
But we 're still at the beginning stages of some of these changes . '' 
In the nine months , net income fell 79 % to $ 31.1 million , or 33 cents a share , from $ 149.3 million , or $ 1.82 a share , a year earlier . 
Robert L. Wood , 37-year-old chief financial officer , was named chairman and chief executive officer of this independent power producer , succeeding Raymond L. Hixson , 63 . 
Maxicare , which filed for bankruptcy protection March 16 , has total debt of $ 750 million . 
General unsecured creditors of Maxicare 's continuing operations initially will receive $ 47 million in cash , $ 35 million face amount of senior notes , and 49 % of the new company 's stock . General unsecured creditors of Maxicare 's discontinued operations , whose claims total $ 110 million , initially will receive $ 17.8 million in cash and $ 10 million in senior notes . 
The plan is subject to approval by the bankruptcy court and others . 
Bids totaling $ 475 million were submitted . 
Bids totaling $ 425 million were submitted . 
ITT 's Hartford Insurance Group had a $ 53 million quarterly pretax loss from Hurricane Hugo , ITT said . 
ITT also said its consumer finance unit agreed in September to settle a civil suit with the California attorney general over alleged improper lending and sales practices . 
Anticipating this settlement , the company recorded a pretax charge of $ 24 million during the fourth quarter of 1988 . 
The institute did n't estimate annual price growth in September , but a 0.2 % rise by the consumer price index would put growth at either 178.8 or 178.9 , up 3.3 % or 3.4 % from the year-earlier level of 173.1 . 
Conspicuous by its absence is California . 
U.S. Memories investors include Advanced Micro Devices Inc. , Digital Equipment Corp. , Hewlett-Packard Co. , International Business Machines Corp. , Intel Corp. , LSI Logic Corp. , and National Semiconductor Corp . 
Fred D. Thompson , a 47-year-old attorney in private practice in Washington and Nashville , Tenn. , was elected to the board of this engineering and construction company . 
The HyperCard program allows users to design applications for Macintosh computers without having to be hardcore programmers and is distributed with every Macintosh sold . 
In Cupertino , Calif. , Apple said that it believes the case has no merit , and that HyperCard does not infringe `` any valid claims '' of the Quickview patents . 
Though I agree with many of Mr. Kageyama 's comments , I believe he points the gun in the wrong direction 
Though I agree with many of Mr. Kageyama 's comments , I believe he points the gun in the wrong direction : It is n't the Americans who must be criticized for not understanding the Japanese culture , but the Japanese who insist on forcing their culture on Americans . 
Americans are expected to conform to the Japanese culture when in Japan . 
Americans place native or native speakers in charge of subsidiaries overseas . 
Americans place native or native speakers in charge of subsidiaries overseas . European multinationals do likewise ; even in America , their affiliates are usually run by American managers . 
But the Japanese insist upon Japanese managers everywhere they set up shop . 
Mr. Kageyama suggests that Kotobuki Electronics Industries workers were having difficulty understanding their foreign bosses ' perspective . 
Thus the conclusion is that the burden rests with management to understand\/adopt the culture and philosophy of the country in which they are operating . 
A manager should not have to rebut the opinions of his employees about the style of his management . Instead , he should listen to see how that criticism can be used constructively to advance his objective of carrying out a set of tasks through the efforts of his subordinates . 
Japanese culture vs. American culture is irrelevant . 
For Mr. Kageyama to argue that American employees must passively accept a direct imposition of the Japanese way of doing things is outright cultural chauvinism of the first order . 
Mr. Kageyama is accurate to deny a specific anti-American bias . 
It is more difficult to deny a general bigotry in seeing things only the Japanese way . 
The French water treatment group said consolidated net profit after payments to minority interests rose to 749 million francs -LRB- US$ 119.2 million -RRB- from 575 million francs in the first half of 1988 . 
As a presidential candidate in 1980 , George Bush forthrightly expressed his position on abortion in an interview with Rolling Stone magazine published that March . 
A few months later , Mr. Bush became Ronald Reagan 's running mate . 
But only four days after that , Mr. Bush resurrected the veto threat . 
The answer is so murky that it is beginning to get this popular president in trouble with each of the increasingly vocal , increasingly powerful sides of the abortion issue . 
Anti-abortion forces regard him as at best an uncertain ally . 
Yet abortion-rights forces remain bitterly critical . 
Douglas Gould , vice president of communications for the Planned Parenthood Federation of America , calls Mr. Bush 's position on the abortion-funding issue `` extremely cruel , '' adding : `` The guy has n't done one thing about prevention . 
Mr. Bush is plainly uncomfortable with the entire abortion question . 
Many Americans still agonize over their own personal feelings about abortion . 
Mr. Bush 's problem is n't so much that he seems to be agonizing over the issue as it is that he seems to vacillate on it . 
The political risk would be far less if the president drew a firm line and hewed to it , experts insist . 
`` If you have a position , you 're better off to stick with it than to move around very much , '' says Republican strategist John Sears . 
By his moderate Republican heritage as well as the warnings of political advisers who say the issue is vital to younger voters , the president might seem to have at least some sympathy with abortion-rights arguments . Yet he is also firmly bound by his hard-line rhetoric and promises he made to anti-abortion activists during his long pursuit of the White House . 
These days , when others raise the subject of abortion , the usually loquacious president can be close-mouthed almost to the point of curtness . 
Ten days ago he was asked to amplify the reasons behind his anti-abortion stance . 
In his Rolling Stone interview in 1980 , Mr. Bush volunteered his abortion-rights remarks to contrast himself with his rival , Ronald Reagan . 
As Mr. Reagan 's running mate , though , Mr. Bush plunged headlong into the anti-abortion position , endorsing a constitutional amendment outlawing abortion . 
In 1974 , as the U.S. representative to the United Nations , he wrote an introduction to a book on world population in which he boasted of his leadership during his term in Congress in expanding family-planning services for the poor . Running for president in early 1980 , he was also quoted as supporting federal funding for abortions in cases of rape , incest and to save the life of the mother . In his Rolling Stone interview in 1980 , Mr. Bush volunteered his abortion-rights remarks to contrast himself with his rival , Ronald Reagan . As Mr. Reagan 's running mate , though , Mr. Bush plunged headlong into the anti-abortion position , endorsing a constitutional amendment outlawing abortion . Throughout the early 1980s , Mr. Bush was quoted sometimes supporting federal funding for abortion in cases of rape and incest and sometimes opposing it . 
In 1974 , as the U.S. representative to the United Nations , he wrote an introduction to a book on world population in which he boasted of his leadership during his term in Congress in expanding family-planning services for the poor . Running for president in early 1980 , he was also quoted as supporting federal funding for abortions in cases of rape , incest and to save the life of the mother . In his Rolling Stone interview in 1980 , Mr. Bush volunteered his abortion-rights remarks to contrast himself with his rival , Ronald Reagan . As Mr. Reagan 's running mate , though , Mr. Bush plunged headlong into the anti-abortion position , endorsing a constitutional amendment outlawing abortion . Throughout the early 1980s , Mr. Bush was quoted sometimes supporting federal funding for abortion in cases of rape and incest and sometimes opposing it . In April 1986 , then-Vice President Bush had his staff write a letter spelling out that he would support a constitutional amendment banning abortions except in cases of rape , incest and life endangerment , but that he opposed federal funding in all but the latter case . 
His rhetoric gathered momentum as he rolled into office , affirming his `` firm support of our cause '' during an anti-abortion rally three days after his inauguration last January . 
But when the high court ruled in the Webster case in July , the president began to lower the volume . 
But in the months since then , while trying to drum up support for other issues -- such as an anti-flag-burning constitutional amendment -- he has shied away from talking about abortion . 
The White House has likewise avoided any involvement in Florida 's recent special legislative session on abortion , which anti-abortion forces had regarded as a key test of their ability to get state lawmakers to toughen abortion restrictions . 
Now , some see Mr. Bush trapped in a position he is neither comfortable with nor able to escape . 
Christopher Cox 's Oct. 13 editorial-page article `` Toward More Crippling Lawsuits ... '' misses the point . 
When we look closely at our own history , it is clear that our constitutionally mandated civil rights have evolved not through the goodness of people 's hearts but through legislation and constitutional amendments . 
For the more than 43 million Americans with disabilities , the 1989 Americans With Disabilities Act provides the missing piece . 
Disabled Americans have had their civil rights guaranteed in all federally funded programs since Section 504 was passed as a part of the 1973 Rehabilitation Act . 
The 1989 act simply extends these guarantees to the private sector . 
Those who fear a plethora of suits paralyzing our legal system need only look at the record on the Rehabilitation Act . 
Analysts had mixed responses to the results . 
Donald DeScenza , an independent analyst in New Canaan , Conn. , said he was `` impressed with the company 's performance . '' 
However , Harry Millis , an analyst at McDonald & Co. , Cleveland , said Goodyear 's results `` fell at the bottom '' of his range of estimates . 
But Goodyear said total U.S. tire unit sales were off about 2 % . 
As he handed over the reins to successor Charles A. Corry , steel profits were close to a cyclical peak . 
Though imports were troublesome , they were n't running away with the market , and American companies had high hopes that steel import quotas would be extended for another five years . 
Perhaps most important , Carl Icahn , who had once threatened a hostile takeover bid , was subdued . 
Today , Mr. Corry presides over a company whose fortunes have changed abruptly . 
In addition , USX 's giant steel segment , representing 34 % of its 1988 sales , is facing softening demand and slipping prices as well as increasing competition from foreign steelmakers and low-cost minimills . 
In addition , USX 's giant steel segment , representing 34 % of its 1988 sales , is facing softening demand and slipping prices as well as increasing competition from foreign steelmakers and low-cost minimills . The import quotas got only a 2 1\/2-year extension , and USX is laboring under a staggering $ 5.8 billion debt at a time when it must spend money to upgrade steel mills and drill for oil . Mr. Icahn , the company 's deep-pocketed , tenacious adversary , recently disclosed that he had raised his USX stake to 13.1 % , and he again threatened a takeover . A battle with Mr. Icahn would rattle even the most seasoned chief executive , to say nothing of one who took the helm less than five months ago . 
The burning question is whether the new chief can parry Mr. Icahn without being pushed into unwelcome moves . 
In 1986 , Mr. Roderick adroitly dodged Mr. Icahn 's first bullet after the takeover specialist had built up an 11.4 % stake . 
And he managed to fend off further advances and even strike up an unlikely friendship with the interloper . 
Mr. Corry , who has boned up on corporate raiders by reading T. Boone Pickens 's autobiography , had hoped the detente would continue . 
But the fiercely competitive Mr. Corry quickly showed he 's no pushover . 
Now , it 's Mr. Icahn 's move . 
Will he try to gain a seat on or control of the board and force a radical split of USX into separate oil and steel companies ? 
Given the weakness of the junk-bond market , can he finance a buy-out ? 
And although the recent turmoil in the stock and junk-bond markets , by making it harder to arrange takeover financing , has eased some of the pressure on Mr. Corry , it does n't end the takeover threat . 
In fact , it 's barely begun for Mr. Corry , who faces tough decisions before he has had a chance to get settled into his new job . 
The 57-year-old tax attorney never even aspired to the job of chief executive . 
But after joining the tax department of a USX subsidiary 30 years ago , he set the modest goal of becoming tax manager by the age of 46 . 
For years , he quietly stuck to the back accounting rooms , wearing a hat to work because everyone else did . 
`` I was never a rebel , '' he said in an earlier interview . 
Yet , the unassuming Mr. Corry helped chart USX 's transition from Big Steel to Big Oil . 
Nevertheless , Mr. Corry , once named chief executive , did n't waste any time distancing himself from his former boss , who still has an office on the 62nd floor of the USX tower in Pittsburgh . 
Some speculate that Mr. Corry would agree if he could find a buyer at the right price . 
The problem is that Mr. Icahn is pushing him to move faster and further in restructuring USX than Mr. Corry had planned . 
Mr. Icahn advocates the sale of the company 's steel operations , and Mr. Corry does n't necessarily disagree . 
Unlike his predecessor , who saw steel as America 's backbone , Mr. Corry tends to view it as a capital-draining and labor-intensive business with limited potential , associates say . 
It is n't surprising that Messrs. Roderick and Corry view steel so differently . 
While Mr. Roderick was reared in the shadows of Pittsburgh 's smoking mills , Mr. Corry grew up in Cincinnati , a city nicknamed `` Porkapolis '' and more accustomed to pork chops than pig iron . 
However , shedding steel would run directly counter to Mr. Roderick 's original rationale for diversifying into oil and gas : Having two major products would lessen the company 's vulnerability to one market 's down cycle and help smooth out the flow of cash and earnings . 
Moreover , the opportunity to sell steel at a price acceptable to USX may be gone , for now . 
`` The time has passed for us to spin off steel , '' either in a public offering or to a buyer , one executive contends . 
However , even USX executives who work closely with him are n't sure about his long-term goals . 
`` I do n't think he has a clear sense of where he wants the company to go , '' one says . 
When negotiating , Mr. Corry played his cards close to the vest . 
Johnnie Johnson , who worked for Mr. Corry in strategic planning , recalls how his boss would routinely ask a subordinate to research an entire industry to target acquisition candidates . 
`` What he really wanted to know was about a particular company , but you did n't know that . 
`` It 's part of the capitalistic market system that equity can be bought and equity is bought , '' he said . 
USX , he noted , was formed 88 years ago , `` by in effect buying out a bunch of other companies ... . 
Israeli counterterrorism officials provided the State Department with a 20-page list of recent terrorist incidents they attribute directly to forces controlled by PLO Chairman Yasser Arafat . 
A U.S. counterterrorism official said experts are studying the Israeli list . 
`` We have no independent evidence linking Fatah to any acts of terrorism since Dec. 15 , 1988 , '' he said , referring to the specific PLO group that Mr. Arafat heads . 
`` So far , this list does n't change our view . 
Separately , the New York Times reported that the Israeli government had provided its correspondent in Jerusalem with different documents that Israel said prove the PLO has been conducting terrorism from the occupied Arab territories . 
Israel has long claimed Mr. Arafat never meant to renounce terrorism , particularly because he and his lieutenants reserved the right to press `` armed struggle '' against the Jewish state . 
Now , Jerusalem says it is backing up its contention with detailed accounts of alleged terrorist acts and plans linked to Mr. Arafat . 
The new accusations come at a delicate time in U.S. efforts to bring about talks between Israel and Palestinian representatives . 
Deciding what constitutes `` terrorism '' can be a legalistic exercise . 
The U.S. defines it as `` premediated , politically motivated violence perpetrated against noncombatant targets by subnational groups or clandestine state agents . '' 
U.S. terrorism experts also say they are highly uncertain about the veracity of the separate documents leaked to the New York Times . 
UAL 's decision to remain an independent company sent share prices tumbling . 
Some dealers said that the market 's strong reaction to Wall Street reflects a general uneasiness about the dollar . 
In late New York trading yesterday , the dollar was quoted at 1.8355 marks , down from 1.8470 marks Monday , and at 141.45 yen , down from 141.90 yen late Monday . 
Following the dive in U.S. stocks , the mark has strengthened more than its major counterparts . 
Meanwhile , sterling slumped on news that the United Kingdom posted a wider-than-expected trade deficit in September . 
On the Commodity Exchange in New York , gold for current delivery jumped $ 3.20 to $ 370.20 an ounce . 
The close was the highest since Aug. 15 . 
John Kriz , a Moody 's vice president , said Boston Safe Deposit 's performance has been hurt this year by a mismatch in the maturities of its assets and liabilities . 
Mr. Kriz noted that Boston Safe Deposit `` has taken some actions to better control asset-liability management and improve controls in general , and we think these will serve to improve credit quality . '' 
But he also cited concerns over the company 's mortgage exposure in the troubled New England real estate market . 
An accounting controversy at the end of last year forced Boston Co. to admit it had overstated pretax profits by some $ 44 million . 
The resulting scandal led to the firing of James N. von Germeten as Boston Co. 's president and to the resignations of the company 's chief financial officer and treasurer . 
Mr. Kriz of Moody 's said the problems in the securities portfolio stem largely from positions taken last year . 
But the news was even worse for Sears 's core U.S. retailing operation , the largest in the nation . 
Sears said its U.S. stores had a loss of $ 6.9 million , their first deficit for the period in more than five years . 
The results underscore Sears 's difficulties in implementing the `` everyday low pricing '' strategy that it adopted in March as part of a broad attempt to revive its retailing business . 
Under the new approach , Sears set prices that were somewhere between its old `` regular '' and `` sale '' prices . 
The new pricing strategy `` is working , '' the spokesman asserted . 
He added that , after an initial surge triggered by an advertising blitz in March , Sears expected that the pricing program would n't have any effect on revenue . 
But analysts say Sears faces an especially daunting challenge on the eve of the Christmas shopping season . 
`` I believe everyday pricing in the current environment does n't work , '' says Walter Loeb of Morgan Stanley & Co. , pointing to soft durable-goods sales . 
In what amounts to an admission that the transition has n't gone as smoothly as Sears had hoped , the giant retailer is now trying new ways to drum up business without appearing to abandon its seven-month-old strategy . 
In a new TV ad , for instance , a woman going through the Sunday newspaper brands as hype claims by other stores that they are offering goods for `` 50 % , 60 % and 70 % off . 
But the ad also mentions Sears 's sales -- a topic that the retailer has avoided since switching to everyday pricing . 
Recent surveys by Leo J. Shapiro & Associates , a market research firm in Chicago , suggest that Sears is having a tough time attracting shoppers because it has n't yet done enough to improve service or its selection of merchandise . 
Moreover , the number of people who spontaneously cited lower prices as the reason for their interest in Sears declined to 16 % in September from 33 % in March . 
Moreover , the number of people who spontaneously cited lower prices as the reason for their interest in Sears declined to 16 % in September from 33 % in March . Just 5 % of the respondents mentioned brands in September , up slightly from 2 % in March . 
`` The power of price as an appeal , which was very considerable in driving traffic in March and April , has diminished , '' says George Rosenbaum , president of Shapiro & Associates . 
Profit at Sears 's Allstate insurance unit fell 38 % to $ 126.1 million because of Hurricane Hugo , which inflicted the greatest single storm damage loss in the company 's history . 
Net income at Sears 's Dean Witter Financials Services group , meanwhile , rose nearly 32 % to $ 35.7 million , reflecting improvements in its basic stock brokerage and Discover credit card businesses . 
In Houston , we have seen how bad the housing problem can become . 
Unused houses deteriorate rapidly , affecting the value of nearby homes 
Unused houses deteriorate rapidly , affecting the value of nearby homes ; in a domino effect , the entire neighborhood can fall victim . 
The problem is so vast that we need to try innovative solutions -- in small-scale experiments . 
3 -RRB- Develop rental agreements with exclusive purchase options for the renter . 
An occupant will , in most every case , be better for the home and neighborhood than a vacant house . 
The unemployment rate was by far the highest in the southern , so-called Mezzogiorno region . 
Quarter net for the business-machines and financial-services company rose to $ 155 million , or $ 1.41 a share , from $ 146 million , or $ 1.37 a share , in the year-earlier period . 
Sales of Xerox copiers and other office products grew 1.6 % 
Sales of Xerox copiers and other office products grew 1.6 % ; `` we expected growth of 6 % to 7 % , '' Mr. Henderson said . 
Still , with competitors such as Eastman Kodak Co. faltering in copier sales , Xerox 's sales increases `` were encouraging , '' says Eugene Glazer of Dean Witter Reynolds Inc . 
For the nine months , Xerox earned $ 492 million , or $ 4.55 a share , up 5.8 % from $ 465 million , or $ 4.32 a share . 
But many economists pointed to a 1.8 % September rise in orders outside the volatile transportation category . 
While a decline in orders for cars and civilian airplanes pulled down the orders total , an enormous jump in orders for heavy military equipment propped it up . 
Orders for military goods usually catapult in September , government officials say , as the Pentagon scrambles to spend its money before the new fiscal year begins Oct. 1 . 
Analysts were most unsettled by evidence the backlog of orders at factories is slipping . 
Unfilled orders for durable goods rose 0.4 % in September , to $ 476.14 billion , after declining for the first time in 2 1\/2 years in August . 
`` It means we 're eating into the bread that keeps us going . 
Capital goods orders outside of the defense sector tumbled for the second month in a row , posting a 5.6 % drop after a 10.3 % decline . 
Still , Milton Hudson , senior economic adviser at Morgan Guaranty Trust Co. in New York , said : `` If you look back a half-year or so the evidence was pretty good of affirmative strength in the capital-goods sector . 
Analysts said they expected the action , and investors applauded the move . 
Still , analysts do n't expect the buy-back to significantly affect per-share earnings in the short term . 
`` The impact wo n't be that great , '' said Graeme Lidgerwood of First Boston Corp . 
Moreover , the extensive program in effect establishes a floor for the stock price , said Joel Price , analyst for Donaldson , Lufkin & Jenrette . 
The buy-back `` is really a comfort to those who want to buy the stock that there is a -LCB- price -RCB- floor , '' he said . 
Under the earlier plan , Norfolk was authorized in 1987 to buy up to 20 million shares . 
Currently , Falcon has about 750,000 cable-television subscribers around the nation 
Your Oct. 2 editorial `` Reding , Wrighting & Erithmatic '' on the recent `` education summit '' was like most pieces on the subject of education 
Oddly , though , on the very same page you printed a comment that addresses one of the most serious shortcomings of the American education system . 
In the Manager 's Journal , Atsushi Kageyama , in commenting on many differences between American and Japanese culture , said , `` Japanese children are raised in a way many Americans would find severe . 
What far too many people concerned about education either fail to understand or choose to ignore is that American children , on the whole , are among the most undisciplined in the world , making any attempt at improvements in the mode of education potentially unsuccessful . 
Retired Adm. William J. Crowe , former chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff , and Robert P. Luciano , chairman and chief executive officer of Schering-Plough Corp. , were elected directors of this securities firm . 
These rate indications are n't directly comparable 
Roy E. Parrott , the company 's president and chief operating officer since Sept. 1 , was named to its board . 
Japan has climbed up from the ashes of World War II and a gross national product of about $ 800 per capita to reach the heavyweight class among industrialized nations . 
Until 1980 , when Japan joined the $ 10,000 per capita GNP club of the advanced countries , it was a model developing nation . 
The government built ports , bridges , highways , schools , hospitals and railways . 
The government built ports , bridges , highways , schools , hospitals and railways . When industries were weak , it protected them . 
It gave the Japanese people a value system , based on the rationalization that given the country 's lack of natural resources , they must work hard to create value through exports and buy food with the surplus . 
That system has worked . 
The standard of living has increased steadily over the past 40 years 
The people have given their leading and only credible political party , the Liberal Democratic Party , clear and uninterrupted power for those 40 years . 
The symptoms all point to one thing 
The symptoms all point to one thing : Japan does not have a modern government . 
Its government still wants to sit in the driver 's seat , set the speed , step on the gas , apply the brakes and steer , with 120 million people in the back seat . 
The Japanese government does n't allow this . 
The Ministry of Agriculture and Fishery actually is a ministry for farmers and fishermen instead of a ministry of provisions . 
The Ministry of Health and Welfare is a ministry of doctors and pharmaceutical companies rather than an organization dedicated to protecting the health of the people . 
The Ministry of Education is nothing but a cartel for licensed teachers , and certainly does not act on behalf of students . 
The Ministry of Construction spreads concrete throughout the country and boasts in international conferences that Japan 's paved roadway per capita is the longest in the world , but they seldom think of the poor commuters who spend so much time sitting in traffic . 
And the Ministry of Foreign Affairs works for itself , supporting Japanese diplomats who sprinkle abundant aid money around the world to ensure that their seat at the dinner table is next to the host 's . 
All this illustrates that Japanese ministries still have a `` provider '' mentality 
All this illustrates that Japanese ministries still have a `` provider '' mentality ; they do not serve the people , and particularly not consumers . 
The rest of the world accepted such methods when Japan was developing . 
Japan is not a political country . 
It is a bureaucratic country . 
The Diet plays a minor role compared with the powerful bureaucratic system . 
Most bills are drafted by bureaucrats , not politicians . 
So most bills are passed without full discussion 
A recent example is the 3 % consumption tax on all commercial activities . 
This makes enormous sense in Japan , where direct tax accounts for more than 70 % of revenues and the capture rate of direct tax is so unfair . 
If you are a salaried man , Amen ! 100 % captured . 
If you are a salaried man , Amen ! 100 % captured . If you are a retailer , 50 % , and a farmer , 30 % . 
As a result , the Japanese people did n't know what to expect when the new law was introduced on April 1 . 
They were frustrated by the longer queues at the cashier and the small coins given as change . 
All of a sudden , prices were no longer in denominations of 100 or 200 . 
They were 103 or 206 . 
While people were jingling their change , the LDP politicians were caught in scandals . 
Money , such as in Recruit 's political donations , and women , as in the cases of Prime Minister Sosuke Uno and Secretary General Tokuo Yamashita , seldom have caused political scandals in Japan . 
Whereas most men were a bit ambivalent about the sex scandals -LRB- though they were furious about Recruit -RRB- , women were upset about both and surged to the polls . 
Taken by surprise , the Socialist Party is busy changing its doctrines . 
It 's now OK to deal with the U.S. , but not the Soviet Union . 
Nuclear power plants are acceptable . 
Against the rapid cosmetic overhaul of the Socialist Party the LDP has been paralyzed . 
Now is the time to reform the government from a provider , developing-country vanguard role to that of a modern , industrialized nation in which consumers have the ultimate choice . 
If the LDP , as currently composed , ca n't make the transformation , then it should split into two parties . 
One party could stand for consumer interests , small government , free trade and globalism to put Japan clearly among the most developed and open countries . 
The LDP must make a decision immediately 
The LDP must make a decision immediately ; Lower House elections must take place before June . 
We must not forget , however , that such a humble political experiment could cause a global tidal wave of shocks in real-estate and financial markets . 
Early this century , diamond mining in the magnificent dunes where the Namib Desert meets the Atlantic Ocean was a day at the beach . 
Men would crawl in the sand looking for shiny stones . 
But only after a fleet of 336 gargantuan earthmoving vehicles belonging to De Beers Consolidated Mines Ltd. , the world 's diamond kingpins , do their work . 
Last year , 43 million tons of desert were moved from one dune to another to recover 934,242 carats , which comes to 46 tons of sand per carat , or one-fifth gram . 
Here , wedged between shifting dunes and pounding waves at the world 's most inhospitable diamond dig , lies the earth 's most precious jewel box . 
Thanks to centuries of polishing by Mother Nature -- first in the gentle current of the Orange River that carried the stones from South Africa 's interior , then in the cold surf of the ocean , and finally in the coarse sands of the desert -- 98 % of the diamonds uncovered are of gem quality . 
Since this treasure chest is too big to fit in a bank vault , it has been turned into one . 
Months after railway worker Zacharias Lewala first picked up a diamond from the sand in 1908 , the German colonialists who controlled Namibia proclaimed a wide swath of the desert -- about 200 miles north from the Orange River and 60 miles inland from the Atlantic -- a restricted area , a designation normally reserved for military operations . 
When the Germans lost World War I , they lost Namibia to South Africa and the diamonds to Ernest Oppenheimer , patriarch of Anglo American Corp. and De Beers . 
The mining zone has thus remained one of the most desolate places in Africa . 
Ghost towns dot the Namib dunes , proving diamonds are n't forever . 
Oranjemund , the mine headquarters , is a lonely corporate oasis of 9,000 residents . 
Jackals roam the streets at night , and gemsbok , hardy antelope with long straight horns , wander in from the desert to drink from water sprinklers . 
On most days , the desert 's heat and the cool of the ocean combine to create a mist like a damp rag . 
And Oranjemund boasts attractions besides diamonds . 
There are six video rental shops , three restaurants , one cinema and 34 sports and recreation clubs for everything from cricket to lawn bowling . 
Last year , when the rising Orange River threatened to swamp the course , the same engineers who are pushing back the Atlantic rushed to build a wall to hold back the flood . 
Huge machines that look as though they came from the Star Wars desert-battle scene lumber among the dunes . 
Mechanized vacuum cleaners probe the sand like giant anteaters 
Mechanized vacuum cleaners probe the sand like giant anteaters ; a whirring ferris wheellike excavator , with buckets instead of seats , chews through layers of compacted sand 
Made of sand , it receives around-the-clock maintainence against the battering waves . 
When the mining in front of the wall is complete , it is moved northward . 
A companion jetty that helps hold back the sea looks like a rusting junkyard . 
`` The Caterpillar people are n't too happy when they see their equipment used like that , '' shrugs Mr. George . 
Despite all these innovations , most of the diamonds are still found in the sand swept away by the men wielding shovels and brushes -- the ignominiously named `` bedrock sweepers '' who toil in the wake of the excavators . 
But should they spy one , the company will pay a bonus equal to one-third its value . 
Still , employees do occasionally try to smuggle out a gem or two . 
One man wrapped several diamonds in the knot of his tie . 
Another poked a hole in the heel of his shoe . 
One man wrapped several diamonds in the knot of his tie . Another poked a hole in the heel of his shoe . A food caterer stashed stones in the false bottom of a milk pail . 
Not yet , anyway . 
Just after Hurricane Hugo battered South Carolina , some officials talked of perhaps adding a penny to the state gasoline tax or raising property taxes . 
Gov. Campbell responded , `` They 're mentioning rope when there 's been a hanging in the family . '' 
A spokesman for North Carolina Gov. Martin says Hugo has n't prompted proposals for state or local increases . 
California , where earthquake damage may top $ 5 billion , plans a special legislative session . 
Property-tax relief is likely . 
Legislators are talking about temporary rises in sales or gasoline taxes , although Gov. Deukmejian says they should be a last resort . 
As a result of an erroneous IRS levy on a bank account , a taxpayer may incur administrative and overdraft charges . 
If the IRS admits its error and the charges have been paid , it will reimburse a taxpayer who has n't refused to give timely answers to IRS inquiries or has n't contributed to continuing or compounding the error . 
If the IRS asks for and gets a replacement for a check that it concedes it lost in processing , it will reimburse the taxpayer for the stop-payment charge on the original . 
Reimbursement claims must be filed with the IRS district or service-center director within a year after the expense accrues . 
They plan to expand the home site by buying five adjoining acres for $ 200,000 , borrowed against a first mortgage on the five acres and also collateralized by the 15 acres . 
EARTHQUAKE VICTIMS facing imminent filing and payment deadlines will get extensions and penalty waivers like those provided for Hugo 's victims ; IRS Notice 89108 has details . 
REPORTS OF PAYMENTS to independent contractors for services must be filed by businesses , but do n't bet that contractors ' unreported income will be detected that way . 
A claim by Peter Testa of New York that a stranger paid him $ 500 to go into a bank and change $ 44,400 in small bills into large bills `` is unconvincing , '' the Tax Court found . 
So he has arranged for a university foundation to set up a scholarship fund for undergraduate engineering students . 
He plans to tell clients to pay certain fees directly to the foundation instead of to him 
Well , notes IRS private ruling 8934014 , `` a fundamental principle '' is that income must be taxed to whoever earns it . 
Ben earns any fees sent directly to charity and is taxable on them 
Ways and Means veteran Gephardt -LRB- D. , Mo . -RRB- moves to the House Budget Committee 
Criticism from such big advertisers as Estee Lauder Inc. , Colgate-Palmolive Co. and Seagram Co. put a damper on the euphoria at the American Magazine Conference here . 
`` Magazines are not providing us in-depth information on circulation , '' said Edgar Bronfman Jr. , president and chief operating officer of Seagram , in a panel discussion . 
How deeply do they read it ? 
Reuben Mark , chief executive of Colgate-Palmolive , said advertisers lack detailed demographic and geographic breakdowns of magazines ' audiences . 
The critics also lambasted the magazine industry for something executives often are very proud of : the growth in magazine titles during the 1980s . 
`` Niche-itis fragments our advertising dollars , '' said Mr. Lauder . 
`` We are being over-magazined . 
We are constantly faced with deciding which partnerships -LCB- with magazines -RCB- we can keep . '' 
Mr. Lauder also attacked what he sees as the wide imitation of Elle , a fashion magazine published by Diamandis Communications Inc. , and criticized the practice of stacking ads at the front of magazines . 
Magazine editors did not take the criticisms lying down . 
Salomon said net income soared to $ 177 million , or $ 1.28 a share , from $ 65 million , or 38 cents a share , a year earlier . 
Nevertheless , Salomon 's stock fell $ 1.125 yesterday to close at $ 23.25 a share in New York Stock Exchange composite trading . 
But some analysts say Salomon has turned the corner . 
`` I upgraded the firm to my buy list because I certainly see signs of improvement , '' says Lawrence Eckenfelder , an analyst at Prudential-Bache Securities . 
Analysts say investors remain skittish toward Salomon because of its volatile earnings . 
With the market overbuilt , builders are finding limited opportunities and increased risks . 
Developers and money managers are looking for bargains among the thousands of financially troubled properties around the country . 
Developers are also eyeing the real estate portfolios of major corporations . 
So developers are saying they will look into distressed properties . 
Developers are also forming more joint ventures with pension funds and insurance companies that can finance big projects . 
The builders are more willing to give up some equity and rely on management and consulting fees to stay afloat in the soft market . 
`` Developers are teaming up with institutions often acting as project managers , '' says Smedes York , ULI president and president of York Properties Inc. , of Raleigh , N.C . 
Real estate firms are also using their alliances with financial institutions to amass acquisition funds . 
But experts say that when it comes to distressed properties , finding diamonds in the rough is n't easy . 
Finding pension funds and other sources willing to invest is a high priority . 
U.S. and Soviet officials hailed the joint project as a new indication of the further thaw in U.S.-Soviet relations . 
Commerce Secretary Robert Mosbacher , who attended the ceremony , called the undertaking a `` historic step '' in the evolution of U.S.-Soviet ties . 
The project will be the largest U.S.-backed joint venture to be undertaken in the Soviet Union in recent years . 
One of the hotels , to be called the Sheraton Moscow , will have 450 rooms and will cost an estimated $ 75 million to build . 
The six-story hotel will be on Gorky Street and initially will cater mostly to business travelers . 
Sheraton , a subsidiary of ITT Corp. , will have a 40 % share in the two hotels 
Sheraton , a subsidiary of ITT Corp. , will have a 40 % share in the two hotels ; Pan American , a subsidiary of Pan Am Corp. , will have a 10 % share . 
But some U.S. companies are negotiating projects that could be among the biggest ones to be launched . 
Thomas Plaskett , Pan Am 's chairman , said the U.S. airline 's participation is a natural outgrowth of its current arrangements with Aeroflot to jointly operate nonstop New York-Moscow flights . 
David Shaffer was named to the new post of executive vice president of the Maxwell Macmillan group of this communications giant . 
Mr. Shaffer takes primary responsibility for the electronic and technical-services group . 
A Japanese apple called the Fuji is cropping up in orchards the way Hondas did on U.S. roads . 
By 1995 it will be planted more often than any other apple tree , according to a recent survey of six apple-industry sages by Washington State University horticulturist Robert Norton . 
It certainly wo n't get there on looks . 
Compared to the Red Delicious , the exemplar of apple pulchritude , the Fuji is decidedly more dowdy -- generally smaller , less-perfectly shaped , greenish , with tinges of red . 
But how sweet it is . 
It has more sugar `` than any apple we 've ever tested , '' says Duane Greene , a University of Massachusetts pomologist , or apple scholar . 
It has a long shelf life and `` does n't fool the public , '' says Grady Auvil , an Orondo , Wash. , grower who is planting Fujis and spreading the good word about them . 
Mr. Auvil , razor sharp at 83 , has picked and packed a zillion pecks of apples over the past 65 years . 
He is known as the father of the U.S.-grown Granny Smith , a radically different apple that the conventional wisdom once said would never catch on . 
It did , shaking the apple establishment to its roots . 
Now , even more radical changes seem afoot as the grand old maverick of American apples plays the role of Hiroshi Appleseed . 
The Delicious hegemony wo n't end anytime soon . 
New apple trees grow slowly , and the Red Delicious is almost as entrenched as mom . 
Its roots are patriotic -- with the first trees appearing in 1872 in an orchard near Peru , Iowa , to be exact . 
For more than 50 years , it has been the apple of our eye . 
A good Delicious can indeed be delicious . 
But the apple industry is ripe for change . 
`` Red Delicious has been overplanted , and its prices have dropped below the cost of production , '' says Washington State 's Mr. Norton . 
The scare over Alar , a growth regulator that makes apples redder and crunchier but may be carcinogenic , made consumers shy away from the Delicious , though they were less affected than the McIntosh . 
The glut and consequent lower prices , combined with cancer fears , was a very serious blow to growers . 
`` But I 'm going to lose $ 50,000 to $ 60,000 on it . 
Some 500 insects and 150 diseases wiggle , chew and romp through growers ' nightmares , including maggots , mites , mildew , thrips , black rot and the flat-headed borer . 
Though growers ca n't always keep the worm from the apple , they can protect themselves against the price vagaries of any one variety by diversifying -- into the recently imported Gala , a sweet New Zealand native ; the Esopus Spitzenburg , reportedly Thomas Jefferson 's favorite apple ; disease-resistant kinds like the Liberty . 
`` I 've ripped out a lot of Delicious '' and grafted the trees with many different shoots , says Steve Wood , a West Lebanon , N.H. , grower , tramping through his 100-acre Poverty Lane Orchard on a crisp autumn day recently . 
`` I 've got 70 kinds of apples . 
Here 's a Waltana , '' he exclaims , picking one off a tree . 
He bites it , scowls and throws it down . `` 
Supermarkets are getting into the variety act , too . 
But freshness counts more than it once did , and stores are expanding shelf space for unconventional , but tastier , and often pricier , apples . 
The Fuji is a product of meticulous Japanese pomological engineering , which fostered it 50 years ago at a government research orchard . 
Japanese researchers have bred dozens of strains of Fujis to hone its color , taste and shelf life . 
In the cornucopia of go-go apples , the Fuji 's track record stands out 
`` The Japanese apple market is very keyed to high quality , '' says David Lane , a scientist at a Canadian horticulture research center in Summerland , British Columbia , and so apples are more of a delicacy there than a big food commodity . 
But in California , says Craig Ito , a Fuji-apple grower , `` There 's a Fuji apple cult . 
Mr. Auvil , the Washington grower , says that he could sell Fujis to Taiwan buyers at $ 40 a box if he had them . 
But his first crop wo n't be picked till next year . 
`` I expect to see the demand exceed supply for Fujis for the next 10 to 15 years , '' he adds . 
Mr. Auvil sees Fujis , in part , as striking a blow against the perversion of U.S. apples by supermarkets . 
`` When the chain stores took over , there was no longer a connection between grower and consumer . 
Then , as growers bred them more for looks , and to satisfy supermarket chains ' demands of long-term storage , the Red went into decline . 
The Fuji , to be sure , has blemishes too . 
Moreover , the frumpy Fuji must compete with an increasingly dolledup Delicious . 
Still , Mr. Auvil points out , Grannies became popular without big , red looks , so why not Fujis ? 
He sees a shift in American values -- at least regarding apples -- toward more emphasis on substance and less on glitz . 
The firms have all said that West Virginia 's suit is without merit . 
Few people are aware that the federal government lends almost as much money as it borrows . 
From 1980 to 1988 , while federal budget deficits totaled $ 1.41 trillion , the government issued $ 394 billion of new direct loans and an additional $ 756 billion of new primary loan guarantees . 
Federal credit programs date back to the New Deal , and were meant to break even financially . 
Since the 1950s , federal lending has experienced extraordinary growth in credit volume , subsidy rates , and policy applications , spurred on by the growth of government in general and budget gimmicks and deceptive management in particular . 
But recent events indicate that federal credit is out of control . 
Student loan defaults remain high at about 12 % , and the program has been rocked by allegations of fraud and mismanagement . 
Farmers Home Administration -LRB- FmHA -RRB- loans have turned into de facto giveaway programs 
Farmers Home Administration -LRB- FmHA -RRB- loans have turned into de facto giveaway programs ; losses over the next three years are expected to exceed $ 20 billion . Student loan defaults remain high at about 12 % , and the program has been rocked by allegations of fraud and mismanagement . 
Last month , the General Accounting Office reported that defaults in Federal Housing Administration guarantees were five times as high as previously estimated , and that FHA 's equity fell to minus $ 2.9 billion . 
If the programs continue their present path , the potential government losses are staggering 
If the programs continue their present path , the potential government losses are staggering : The federal government holds $ 222 billion in direct loans outstanding and backs an additional $ 550 billion in primary guarantees . 
Although external events have contributed to the morass , the principal causes of the current crisis are internal and generic to all programs . 
There is a fundamental conflict between providing a subsidy and maintaining the integrity of a credit program . 
Thus , subsidized loans tend to turn into giveaway programs , with increasing subsidy and default rates over time . 
For example , legal restrictions on interstate banking once inhibited the supply of credit to the agricultural sector . 
For example , student loans currently attempt to subsidize college attendance and mitigate problems created by the fact that students ' future earnings are not accepted as collateral . 
The program provides highly subsidized loans to any student whose family earns less than a particular amount . 
High default rates , a low interest rate , and government coverage of all interest costs while the student is in school make program costs extremely high . 
In contrast , a student loan program that was meant solely to correct capital-market imperfections would allow loans for any student , regardless of family income , at market or near-market rates . 
While the student was in school , interest costs would either be paid by the student or added to the loan balance . 
Given the structure of most credit programs , it is surprising that default rates are not even higher . 
Guarantee rates are typically 100 % , giving lenders little reason to screen customers carefully . 
Borrowers ' incentives are equally skewed . 
Since the government has a dismal record of collecting bad debts , the costs to the borrower of defaulting are usually low . In addition , it is often possible to obtain a new government loan even if existing debts are not paid off . 
Simple policy prescriptions in this case would be to improve debt collection -LRB- taking the gloves off contracted collection agencies -RRB- and to deny new credit to defaulters . 
Since the budget measures cash flow , a new $ 1 direct loan is treated as a $ 1 expenditure , even though at least part of the loan will be paid back . 
Loan guarantees do n't appear at all until the borrower defaults , so new guarantees do not raise the deficit , even though they create future liabilities for the government . 
By converting an expenditure or loan to a guarantee , the government can ensure the same flow of resources and reduce the current deficit . 
This figure could be estimated using techniques employed by private lenders to forecast losses , or determined by selling loans to private owners -LRB- without federal guarantees -RRB- . 
Neither technique is perfect , but both are better than the current system , which misstates the costs of new credit programs by amounts that vary substantially and average about $ 20 billion annually , according to the Congressional Budget Office . 
Creative accounting is a hallmark of federal credit . 
Many agencies roll over their debt , paying off delinquent loans by issuing new loans , or converting defaulted loan guarantees into direct loans . 
In any case , they avoid having to write off the loans . Many agencies roll over their debt , paying off delinquent loans by issuing new loans , or converting defaulted loan guarantees into direct loans . 
Some agencies simply keep bad loans on the books 
In any case , they avoid having to write off the loans . Some agencies simply keep bad loans on the books ; as late as 1987 , the Export-Import Bank held in its portfolio at face value loans made to Cuba in the 1950s . Many agencies roll over their debt , paying off delinquent loans by issuing new loans , or converting defaulted loan guarantees into direct loans . 
More seriously , FmHA has carried several billion dollars of defaulted loans at face value . 
The administration of federal credit should closely parallel private lending practices , including the development of a loan loss reserve and regular outside audits . 
Government lending was not intended to be a way to obfuscate spending figures , hide fraudulent activity , or provide large subsidies . 
The reforms described above would provide a more limited , but clearer , safer and ultimately more useful role for government as a lender . 
Malcolm S. Todt was named vice president and senior officer in charge of equipment leasing to municipalities , a new effort of this bond insurer . 
Mr. Bush has long campaigned for passage of a bill or a constitutional amendment that would explicitly give him a line-item veto , which would enable him to kill individual items in a big spending bill without having to kill the entire bill . 
But some analysts , particularly conservative legal scholars , have urged Mr. Bush not to wait for explicit authorization but simply to assert that the Constitution already implicitly gives him the power to exercise a line-item veto . 
Trade Representative Carla Hills , who along with Agriculture Secretary Clayton Yeutter unveiled the proposal , said she is confident it will gain considerable support from the U.S. 's trading partners . 
The U.S. is submitting the proposal today in Geneva , hoping that the initiative will spur members of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade to reach agreement on new trade rules before their current negotiating round concludes in December 1990 . 
Instead of proposing a complete elimination of farm subsidies , as the earlier U.S. proposal did , the new package calls for the elimination of only the most tradedistorting ones . 
The new U.S. plan also would establish procedures to prevent countries from using health and sanitation rules to impede trade arbitrarily . 
The goal would be to resolve disputes such as one prompted by the European Community 's current attempt to bar imports of beef from hormone-treated U.S. cattle . 
Net for the quarter ended Sept. 30 climbed to $ 551 million , or $ 1.66 a share , from $ 400 million , or $ 1.18 a share , a year earlier . 
Net for the quarter ended Sept. 30 climbed to $ 551 million , or $ 1.66 a share , from $ 400 million , or $ 1.18 a share , a year earlier . Per-share figures have been adjusted for a 2-for-1 stock split effective Oct. 20 . 
Excluding the gain , P&G 's earnings were close to analysts ' predictions of about $ 1.40 a share for the quarter . 
Wall Street had expected a modest rise in the company 's domestic sales and earnings , and more substantial increases in overseas results . 
Unit volume , or amount of products shipped , rose about 11 % in the international segment , with P&G continuing to win market share in Japan 's diaper and detergent markets . 
Jay Freedman , analyst with Kidder , Peabody & Co. , said P&G 's Always sanitary napkin , sold under the Whisper name in Japan , has firmly established itself as a leading brand . 
P&G 's U.S. shipments were up just 1 % , partly because the company decided to shift more promotions and sales for health and beauty products to the fiscal second quarter . 
Also slowing growth in the U.S. were lackluster results for P&G 's cooking oils , which had a strong year-earlier first quarter . 
For fiscal 1990 , analysts expect P&G 's sales to continue to grow , with earnings climbing between 15 % and 20 % . 
`` But I 'm recognizing there 's a good chance they 'll do a bit better than that , '' she says . 
Because of his remarkable success turning around P&G 's international operations , analysts have high hopes for his tenure . 
The Voting Rights Act of 1965 was enacted to keep the promise of the Fifteenth Amendment and enable Southern blacks to go to the polls , unhindered by literacy tests and other exclusionary devices . 
In the 1980s , the Justice Department and lower federal courts that enforce the Voting Rights Act have required state legislatures and municipal governments to create the maximum number of `` safe '' minority election districts -- districts where minorities form between 65 % and 80 % of the voting population . 
The new goal of the Voting Rights Act -- more minorities in political office -- is laudable . 
For the political process to work , all citizens , regardless of race , must feel represented . 
One essential indicator that they are is that members of minority groups get elected to public office with reasonable frequency . 
But racial gerrymandering is not the best way to accomplish that essential goal . 
Far from promoting a commonality of interests among black , white , Hispanic and other minority voters , drawing the district lines according to race suggests that race is the voter 's and the candidate 's most important trait . 
Examples of the divisive effects of racial gerrymandering can be seen in two cities -- New York and Birmingham , Ala . 
Racial gerrymandering has been a familiar policy in New York City since 1970 , when Congress first amended the Voting Rights Act to expand its reach beyond the Southern states . 
This year , a commission appointed by the mayor to revise New York 's system of government completed a new charter , expanding the City Council to 51 from 35 members . 
Sometime in 1991 , as soon as the 1990 census becomes available , a redistricting panel will redraw the City Council district lines . 
The Charter Revision Commission has made it clear that in response to the expectations of the Justice Department and the commission 's own commitment to enhancing minority political leadership , the new district lines will be drawn to maximize the number of solidly minority districts . 
In this connection , it is important to note that several members of New York 's sitting City Council represent heterogeneous districts that bring together sizable black , Hispanic , and non-Hispanic white populations -- Carolyn Maloney 's 8th district in northern Manhattan and the south Bronx and Susan Alter 's 25th district in Brooklyn , for example . 
To win their seats on the council , these political leaders have had to listen to all the voices in their district and devise public policies that would benefit all . 
In Birmingham , which is 57 % black , whites are the minority . 
Insisting that they are protected by the Voting Rights Act , a group of whites brought a federal suit in 1987 to demand that the city abandon at-large voting for the nine member City Council and create nine electoral districts , including four safe white districts . 
No federal court has ruled that the Voting Rights Act protects a white minority , but in June the Justice Department approved a districting plan for Birmingham that carves out three white-majority districts and six black-majority districts . 
Richard Arrington , Birmingham 's black mayor , lamented the consequences . 
`` In the past , people who had to run for office had to moderate their views because they could n't afford to offend blacks or whites , '' he said . 
Two hundred years ago , critics of the new United States Constitution warned that the electoral districts for Congress were too large and encompassed too many different economic interests . 
But James Madison refuted that argument in one of the most celebrated political treatises ever written , No. 10 of the Federalist Papers . 
Madison explained that a representative 's duty was to speak not for the narrow interests of one group but instead for the common good . 
Madison 's noble and unifying vision of the representative still can guide us . 
As long as we believe that all Americans , of every race and ethnic background , have common interests and can live together cooperatively , our political map should reflect our belief . 
Such orders can have a wide-ranging impact on third parties who do business with the defendants , including clients , vendors , banks , investors , creditors , dependents , and others . 
Some highly publicized cases involving RICO TROs have been the subject of considerable criticism in the press , because of a perception that pre-trial freezing of assets is tantamount to a seizure of property without due process . 
In order to ensure that the rights of all interested parties are protected , the Criminal Division has instituted the following requirements to control the use of TROs in RICO prosecutions . 
1 . As part of the approval process for RICO prosecutions , the prosecutor must submit any proposed forfeiture TRO for review by the Organized Crime and Racketeering Section . 
3 . In deciding whether forfeiture -LRB- and , hence , a TRO -RRB- is appropriate , the Section will consider the nature and severity of the offense 
Since then , deliveries have slumped . 
GM 's car sales dropped 24.8 % in mid-October to 69,980 , while truck sales fell 26 % to 37,860 . 
All of the Big Three suffered in the just-ended period , however , with sales of all domestically made cars , including those built at Japanese-managed plants , falling 19 % to 158,863 from a year earlier . 
The Big Three auto makers already have slashed fourth-quarter production plans 10.4 % below year-ago levels , but that may not be enough to prevent inventories from ballooning if sales do n't improve . 
Industry analyst John H. Qualls , a vice president with Hill & Knowlton in St. Louis , forecasts that domestic auto makers will have a 93-day supply of cars at the end of the year , even if car sales improve to a 6.5 million vehicle rate for the quarter . 
Ford Motor Co. reported a 21.2 % drop in sales of domestic-made cars to 46,995 and a 24.2 % drop in domestic trucks to 31,143 . 
The sales are being dragged down by a glut of 1989 vehicles , said Joel Pitcoff , a Ford analyst . 
Town & Country Ford in Charlotte , N.C. , still needs to move about 850 1989 cars and trucks . 
Chrysler Corp. also hit the rocks in mid-October . 
But sales of domestic cars and trucks at Nissan Motor Corp. rose 26.1 % to 5,651 . 
The most recent OTC short interest statistics were compiled Oct. 13 , the day the Nasdaq composite index slid 3 % and the New York Stock Exchange tumbled 7 % . 
The total short interest in Nasdaq stocks as of mid-October was 237.1 million shares , up from 223.7 million in September but well below the record level of 279 million shares established in July 1987 . 
Generally , a short seller expects a fall in a stock 's price and aims to profit by selling borrowed shares that are to be replaced later 
Generally , a short seller expects a fall in a stock 's price and aims to profit by selling borrowed shares that are to be replaced later ; the short seller hopes the replacement shares bought later will cost less than those that were sold . 
Among 2,412 of the largest OTC issues , short interest rose to 196.8 million shares , from 185.7 million in 2,379 stocks in September . 
Short interest in First Executive , an insurance issue , rose 55 % to 3.8 million . 
Meritor Savings again had the dubious honor of being the OTC stock with the biggest short interest position on Nasdaq . 
Short selling is n't necessarily bad for the overall market . 
Two big stocks involved in takeover activity saw their short interest surge . 
What defeated General Aoun was not only the weight of the Syrian army . 
Like Lebanon , and however unfairly , Israel is regarded by the Arab world as a colonial aberration . 
Its best hope of acceptance by its neighbours lies in reaching a settlement with the Palestinians . 
Like Lebanon , Israel is being remade by demography . 
In Greater Israel more than half the children under six are Muslims . 
By not choosing one of these options , Israelis will condemn themselves , as the Maronites did , to perpetual war with the Muslims in their midst , and so to the internal erosion of their state . 
Unlike the Maronites , Israel 's Jews will not let themselves become the weakest force in a system of private armies 
In contrast , the industrial average recovered almost completely from its skid and closed down 0.1 % . 
MCI Communications , the most active issue , finished down 5\/8 to 42 1\/8 . 
Other active stocks included Jaguar , whose American depositary receipts added 1\/8 to 11 1\/4 . 
Apple Computer improved 7\/8 to 47 5\/8 
Mr. DaPuzzo also complained that the sharp swings in stock prices lately is scaring away retail and foreign investors . 
The volatility inherent in program trading troubled other traders , too . 
They do n't like the risks they are forced to assume when prices swing so drastically . 
Market makers are supposed to keep supplies of stocks on hand to maintain orderly trading when imbalances occur . 
That means that on days when prices are tumbling and sellers abound they must be willing to buy shares from sellers when no one else will . 
But the recent volatility in stock prices caused by the program trading has made some market makers less willing to soak up the stocks that are for sale . 
The situation makes it harder to buy and sell shares quickly , exacerbating the rise and fall in stock prices during program-dominated trading . 
Groused Robert Antolini , head of over-the-counter trading at Donaldson , Lufkin & Jenrette : `` It 's making it tough for traders to make money . '' 
Ohio Casualty dropped 2 1\/8 to 49 1\/2 . 
The company posted third-quarter earnings of 95 cents a share , down from $ 1.26 a year earlier . 
XL\/Datacomp slid 2 1\/4 to 16 1\/2 amid continuing concerns about the company 's contract negotiations with International Business Machines . 
Omni Capital Group surged 1 3\/4 to 16 1\/4 . 
We 're happy , we guess , to receive confirmation of the Krasnoyarsk violation from the Soviets , five years after we started writing about it . 
Without question , something intriguing is going on in the policy chambers of the Politburo . 
It 's not enough . 
If the Soviets want to be believed , they need to start telling the truth about more than the totally obvious . 
The U.S. government has never waivered in its assessment of this incident as an accident at a biological weapons facility there , and hence a violation of the 1972 Biological Weapons Convention . 
Since Mr. Shevardnadze did not address this topic before the Supreme Soviet , the Soviet Union 's official position remains that the anthrax deaths were caused by tainted meat . 
And we certainly do not believe that Mr. Gorbachev or any of his emissaries yet deserve to have the West take their word for it . 
The U.S. government 's Sverdlovsk complaint , as with Krasnoyarsk , is no mere political posturing . 
The Soviets should be willing to set in motion a process that would allow them to acknowledge that Sverdlovsk violated the 1972 agreement or , alternatively , that would give U.S. specialists reasonable confidence that this was a wholly civilian accident . 
Manville said it made the offer within the past several weeks as part of an effort to improve shareholder value . 
Manville and a spokeswoman for the trust said that the two are discussing the proposal but a decision has n't been made . 
`` We are considering that offer along with all other alternatives , '' the trust spokeswoman said . 
But it initially was funded with about $ 765 million and may soon face a cash crunch . 
As part of its offer , Manville said it requested changes in some covenants between it and the trust to allow Manville to `` reflect a more typical corporate ownership and financial structure . '' 
The $ 2.25 billion value claimed by Northeast , based in Hartford , Conn. , is the highest yet given to a bid . 
Under the new Northeast Utilities plan , it would pay $ 1.65 billion in cash to creditors and assume $ 100 million in pollution control bonds . 
The biggest change in Northeast 's offer was in improvements made for equity holders who had been given short shrift previously . 
Assuming full operation of the Seabrook nuclear power plant , which is completed but is n't yet operating , equity holders would receive up to $ 500 million in cash , preferred stock and new 10-year Seabrook bonds . 
In addition , Northeast promised the State of New Hampshire that rate increases would be limited to 5.5 % annually for seven years . 
The company has filed an internal reorganization plan it valued at $ 2.2 billion that would require 5.5 % rate increases . 
New England Electric System , Westborough , Mass. , has proposed buying the company for $ 2 billion as part of a plan that would require rate increases of only 4.8 % annually for seven years . 
Once again , the indomitable peasant holds Poland 's future in his hands . 
Factory workers on strike knocked Poland 's Communist bosses off balance last year 
Factory workers on strike knocked Poland 's Communist bosses off balance last year ; this year , it was the farmers who brought them down . 
The Communists froze prices instead . 
The farmers ran a boycott , and meat disappeared from the shops . 
On Aug. 1 , the state tore up its controls , and food prices leaped . 
But by the time Solidarity took office in September , the damage was done . 
`` Shortageflation , '' as economists have come to call it , had gone hyper . 
The cost of raising a pig kept bounding ahead of the return for selling one . 
The farmers stayed angry . 
At dawn on a cool day , hundreds travel to the private market in Radzymin , a town not far from Warsaw , hauling pigs , cattle and sacks of feed that the state 's official buyers ca n't induce them to sell . 
In a crush of trucks and horse carts on the trodden field , Andrzej Latowski wrestles a screeching , overweight hog into the trunk of a private butcher 's Polish Fiat . 
`` Of course it 's better to sell private , '' he says , as the butcher trundles away . 
The young farmer makes money on the few hogs he sells here . 
He wo n't for long , because his old state sources of rye and potatoes are drying up . 
`` There 's no feed , '' he says . 
Like the others , it is loaded with rye , wheat and oats in sacks labeled `` Asbestos . Made in U.S.S.R . '' 
The farmer at the next truck shouts , `` Wheat ! It 's nice ! It wo n't be cheaper ! We sell direct ! '' 
`` Country people breed pigs , '' says Mr. Chojnowski , leaning against the back of his truck . 
`` They ca n't buy feed from the state . 
There is n't enough . 
I sell -- a little . 
I am waiting . 
On this morning , he does n't sell much in Radzymin , either . 
At closing time , farmers cart out most of what they carted in . 
The hulk of Stalinism , it seems , will not quickly crumble away . 
State monopolies will keep on stifling trade , `` free '' prices or not , until something else replaces them . 
The Communists spent 40 years working to ensure that no such capitalistic structures ever arose here . 
`` We are dealing with real entrepreneurs , '' says Antoni Leopold , an economist who advises Rural Solidarity , the union 's countryside offshoot . 
Polish peasants , spurning the collectivizers , were once a source of shame to orthodox Communists . 
Now , among Communist reformers , they are objects of envy . 
As the Chinese have shown and the Soviets are learning , family farms thrive where collectives fail . 
Ownership , it seems , is the best fertilizer . 
On it , a quarter of the country 's 39 million people produce three-quarters of its grain , beef , eggs and milk , and nine-tenths of its fruit , vegetables and potatoes . 
Like the Roman Catholic Church , the Polish peasant is a pillar of the nation . 
Czeslaw Pyszkiewicz owns 30 acres in 14 scattered scraps . 
Until 1963 , it was good soil . 
Then the state put in a reservoir to supply the area with drinking water . 
Farmers lay down before the bulldozers . 
Mr Pyszkiewicz smiles and his brow furrows . 
In his lifetime , 47 years , the Communists brought electricity to his village and piped in drinking water from the reservoir . 
No phones . 
No gas . No phones . 
`` We wanted them to build a road here , '' he says . 
No gas . `` We wanted them to build a road here , '' he says . `` They started , and then abandoned it . '' No phones . 
`` It 's Russian . 
Good for nothing . 
Parts are a tragedy . 
The farmer can say the same for coal , cement , saw blades . 
In Poland , only 4 % of all investment goes toward making things farmers want 
The few big state farms take first crack at what does get made . 
There is a lot of waste . 
But it never did let up on the pressure . 
Until recently , a farmer with no heir had to will the state his land to collect his pension . 
The pension 's size still depends on how much produce he sells the state . 
Yet the state alone sells seeds and machines . 
A private farmer in Poland is free to buy and sell land , hire help , decide what to grow and how to grow it . 
He is free to invest in chickens , and to fail for lack of chicken wire . 
`` I 'm on my own land , '' Mr. Pyszkiewicz says . 
By starving the peasant , the Communists have starved Poland . 
Villages like Zalubice exist in a desert of poor schools and few doctors . 
Farm income is 15 % below the average . 
Farm income is 15 % below the average . The young leave , especially girls who wo n't milk cows by hand . 
Some men stay , their best friend a bottle of vodka , but two million acres have gone fallow . 
So the potato crop , once 47 million tons , is down to 35 million . 
If a food crisis undid the Communists , a food revolution will make Solidarity . 
The potential is displayed along every road into Warsaw : row upon row of greenhouses , stretching out behind modern mansions that trumpet their owners ' wealth . 
A private challenge to the monolithic tractor industry will take more time and money than Poland can spare , although a smokehouse or a local dairy can spring up fast . 
Poland makes no machinery for a plant on that scale . 
Solidarity wants it from the West . 
Felix Siemienas is destroying it now . 
A law went on the books in January that let him smoke bacon without breeding pigs . 
He cashed in . 
`` I hire transportation , and my customers have fresh cold cuts every day . 
I do n't subsidize anyone . 
Yes , my prices are high . 
If nobody buys , I bring my prices down . 
That 's the rule . 
Mr. Siemienas is making a fortune -- $ 10,000 a month , he says . 
But the meat-processing machines he picked up are 50 years old . 
`` I do n't want expensive machines . 
That 's politics . 
By taking power in a deal with the Peasant Party 's onetime Communist stooges , Solidarity has spooked the rural entrepreneur . 
Rural Solidarity objected , to no avail , when Solidarity leader Lech Walesa accepted the Peasants ' support . 
`` We know how to get from capitalism to socialism , '' Sergiusz Niciporuk is saying one afternoon . 
`` Many people in Poland hope this government will break down , '' says Mr. Niciporuk , who belongs to the local council and to Rural Solidarity . 
He is our most dangerous enemy . 
The farmer barges into the naczelnik 's office . 
A thin man in a gray suit looks up from a newspaper . 
Mr. Niciporuk sits . 
`` Solidarity does n't care for the good of this region , '' he says after a few pleasantries . 
`` They want to turn everything upside down in a week . 
Mr. Niciporuk here wants 60 acres used at the moment by a state farm . 
`` Big business , '' Mr. Pawlowski snorts in English . 
The farmer stands to go . 
`` I care very much for this post , '' he says . 
`` Eight years I 've had it . 
A cultural center has been built , shops . 
Suddenly , I am not a comfortable man for Solidarity . 
I have accomplished too much . 
They want to do more . 
The budget impact will be greater still in fiscal 1991 , and the issue forced a confrontation between the Appropriations Committee leadership and Budget Committee Chairman Leon Panetta , whose California district was at the center of the earthquake last week . 
Going to the well of the chamber , Mr. Panetta demanded the costs be fully counted . 
`` We do not come to this House asking for any handout , '' said the California Democrat . 
The $ 2.85 billion package incorporates $ 500 million for low-interest disaster loans , $ 1 billion in highway construction funds , and $ 1.35 billion divided between general emergency assistance and a reserve to be available to President Bush to meet unanticipated costs from the two disasters . 
But the appropriations set in motion spending that adds to an already grim budget picture for fiscal 1991 . 
The underlying bill approved yesterday is required to keep the government operating past midnight tonight , and this urgency has contributed to the speed -- and , critics say , mistakes -- that have accompanied the package of disaster assistance . 
The Senate is expected to make some modifications today , but both the White House and Congress appear most anxious to speed final approval before tonight 's deadline . 
Yesterday 's floor action came as a House-Senate conference approved a nearly $ 8.5 billion fiscal 1990 military construction bill , representing a 5 % reduction from last year and making severe cuts from Pentagon requests for installations abroad . 
Closer to home , the negotiators were more generous . 
Texas and California are traditionally powerful within the conference , but equally striking is the dominance of Alaska , Pennsylvania and West Virginia because of their power elsewhere in the appropriations process . 
This would be a second round of cuts by Mobil , which along with other oil producers and refiners reduced its work force by 15 % to 20 % during the mid-1980s as part of an industrywide shakeout . 
In yesterday 's third-quarter earnings report , the company alluded to a $ 40 million provision for restructuring costs involving U.S. exploration and production operations . 
Individuals familiar with Mobil 's strategy say that Mobil is reducing its U.S. work force because of declining U.S. output . 
Industrywide , oil production in this country fell by 500,000 barrels a day to 7.7 million barrels in the first eight months of this year . 
Some Mobil executives were dismayed that a reference to the cutbacks was included in the earnings report before workers were notified . 
One Mobil executive said that the $ 40 million charge related to the action indicates `` a substantial '' number of people will be involved . 
The Justice Department is in the process of trying to gain control over a law that federal Judge David Sentelle recently called a `` monster . '' 
Needless to say , he was talking about RICO . 
They strongly suggest that Justice 's prosecutions of Drexel Burnham Lambert , Michael Milken and Princeton\/Newport violated notions of fundamental fairness . 
Justice is attempting to avoid a replay of these tactics . 
The new guidelines limit the pretrial forfeitures of assets of RICOed defendants and their investors , clients , bankers and others . 
The forfeiture memo cited `` considerable criticism in the press , because of a perception that pre-trial freezing of assets is tantamount to a seizure of property without due process . '' 
These changes come a tad late for Princeton\/Newport , the first RICOed securities firm . 
It was forced into liquidation before trial when investors yanked their funds after the government demanded a huge pre-trial asset forfeiture . 
Princeton\/Newport investors , including McKinsey & Co. and the Harvard endowment , made the rational decision to withdraw their money 
Princeton\/Newport investors , including McKinsey & Co. and the Harvard endowment , made the rational decision to withdraw their money ; for the firm , the liquidation was sentence first , verdict later . 
Drexel therefore agreed instead to an arrangement allowing it to plea to charges `` which the company is not in a position to dispute '' because of RICO . 
So two cheers for the new rules . 
But prosecutorial guidelines are effective only if someone at Justice is willing and able to supervise hyperactive prosecutors . 
Judge Sentelle , of the appeals court in Washington , made this point at a Cato Institute conference last week in a remarkable speech titled , `` RICO : The Monster That Ate Jurisprudence . '' 
He said ours is supposed to be `` a government of laws not of men , '' and yet RICO defenders `` tell us that we should rely on prosecutorial discretion to protect against overbreadth of RICO . '' 
Justice should review these cases to see what other prosecutorial abuses may have occurred . 
`` Teddy Z '' was boosted by favorable reviews and a network-wide promotional tie-in contest with K mart Corp . 
But five weeks after the premiere , the series has floundered . 
In figures released yesterday by A.C. Nielsen Co . `` Teddy Z , '' produced by the television unit of Columbia Pictures Entertainment Inc. , was in 37th place . 
The opening credits are being redone , Mr. Nelson said , `` to make Teddy 's situation clear to viewers who have not been with us since the beginning . 
The 80-point decline in the Dow Jones Industrial Average during the morning trading session touched off a flight to safety that saw investors shifting assets from stocks to Treasury bonds . 
But analysts said the combination of a second consecutive decline in monthly durable-goods orders and lackluster mid-October auto sales helped prop up the Treasury market . 
Auto makers reported that mid-October sales were running at an annual rate of about 5.8 million units , far less than the 6.6 million units analysts had expected . 
Although analysts do n't expect the Federal Reserve to ease credit policy soon , reports like those yesterday help build the case for lower rates . 
But as stock prices recovered some of the early losses , so did the U.S. currency . 
In major market activity : Bond prices rose . 
The Treasury 's benchmark 30-year bond gained nearly half a point , or about $ 5 for each $ 1,000 face amount . 
The dollar retreated . 
`` Lifestyles of the Rich and Famous '' may be visiting some new venues in the near future . 
Miss Gabor recanted her earlier-expressed fear of jailhouse lesbians . 
When the good fairy assigned to Slovakia hovered over the cradle of Edita Gruberova many years ago in Bratislava , she sprinkled her with high E flats , sparkling Ds , clean trills , and coloratura ornaments silvery as magic dust . 
Cast as Violetta Valery in a new production of Verdi 's `` La Traviata , '' Ms. Gruberova last week did many things nicely and others not so well . 
It is n't every day that we hear a Violetta who can sing the first act 's high-flying music with all the little notes perfectly pitched and neatly stitched together . 
Never once did she gasp for air or mop her brow . 
But as you may know , things are not going well for Violetta . 
There are times when she must show a little emotion . 
Worse , her walls move all the time -- at least in this production . 
Just when Ms. Gruberova sat down away from her guests to cough in private , her salon began sliding around the stage 
Hold on to those funny braids ! you wanted to caution her as the sets started to roll around once more . 
They have a life of their own and can be counted on to look good and perform whenever a cast is n't up to either . 
If a strike ever hits the Met , the company can still sell tickets to his `` Boheme '' and `` Turandot '' and boom out recordings -LRB- of another era -RRB- . 
Last week 's discerning audience gave a bigger hand to a greenhouse than to the tenor Neil Shicoff , who sang an aria inside it . 
I wish he could wear lifts in his voice . 
This is the same production already seen in Paris and Florence , and its scenic ideas echo the movie he made with Placido Domingo and Teresa Stratas . 
Decades earlier , Maria Callas sang the Dallas staging that introduced the flashback idea . 
In an invention that drives Verdi purists bananas , Violetta lies dying in bed during the prelude , rising deliriously when then she remembers the great parties she used to throw . 
Given the prelude 's thematic connections with the music preceding the last act , the idea is more worn than bad , though as luck would have it , for a change there actually was a conductor in the pit whom we wanted to hear , Carlos Kleiber , trying to make memorable music while we all waited for the bed lump to stir into song . 
Of heart-pounding moments there were nearly none , and whether this has to do with Mr. Kleiber or the wooden cast is hard to say . 
In any event , Ms. Gruberova barely ventilated Violetta 's anguish in her long meeting with Wolfgang Brendel , who as Germont seemed fairly desperate trying to inject an Italianate lilt into his heavy , teutonic baritone . 
`` Di Provenza '' was n't much of an advertisement for sunny , southern France . 
Speaking of dark nights , the Met 's next-door neighbor , the New York City Opera , has canceled its season after failing to reach a settlement with its musicians , who wanted pay parity with the the Chicago Lyric and San Francisco Opera orchestras . 
Good luck . 
The cancellation bodes poorly for a company already beset with an identity crisis exacerbated by the retirement of general director Beverly Sills and the amazing appointment of Christopher Keene as her successor after his years of feckless toiling in the pit . 
I , for instance , was perfectly happy at Avery Fisher Hall the other day listening to Helmuth Rilling conduct the Messa per Rossini , a strange piece written by 13 different Italian composers to honor Rossini after his death in 1868 . 
Each of them contributed a section at the behest of Verdi , who was nearly driven to his own early grave by the troublesome arrangements . 
We know Verdi 's own contribution was mighty impressive since the operatic `` Libera me '' was reworked for the Manzoni Requiem , of which he wrote every note himself having learned his lesson . 
The surprising discovery of the evening at Fisher was the high standard achieved by some of his now-obscure colleagues , notably Raimondo Boucheron . 
He brought along his Stuttgart-based Gaechinger Kantorei chorus , and even better , the Czech soprano Gabriela Benackova . 
She was in her most radiant , expressive voice . 
The Tokyo International Film Festival was no match for the Cannes Film Festival in terms of prestige , but it made its mark 
There are drawbacks . 
While no figures exist , it is thought that many small investors in Belgium store securities privately , in some cases to avoid paying high inheritance taxes . 
Japan is considering giving aid to Hungary and Poland to support their recent political reforms , a spokesman for the Foreign Ministry said . 
`` This is the first time , if we decide to do so , for Japan to extend aid of this kind to Eastern European countries , '' the spokesman said . 
Drugs were a major issue in two days of talks between French President Francois Mitterrand and Spanish Prime Minister Felipe Gonzalez . 
`` I demand the utmost severity in the fight against drug traffickers , '' President Mitterrand said after the meeting in Valladolid , Spain . 
Three Soviet government officials -- the ministers of railroads , of foreign economic relations and of heavy-machine building -- will visit Tehran next month for talks , Iran 's official news agency reported . 
Toto Co. , a Japanese ceramics maker , has developed a toilet that can check the user 's health . 
Nippon Telegraph & Telephone Corp. and Omron Tateisi Electronics are involved with Toto 's new product , which will go on the market in about two years time . 
`` It will be very expensive , '' the spokesman warned . 
Mr. Castaneda 's office will reportedly issue warrants during the next six months for the arrest of another 10,000 federal employees . 
Those employees are suspected of illegally gaining an estimated $ 376.8 million , the prosecutor was quoted as saying by the Excelsior news service . 
The United Nations , which is distributing farm tools to returning refugees in Namibia , is rethinking a plan to hand out machetes because of the tense political climate during preparations for independence from South Africa . 
The company made its 1990 projection -- an unusual event for Cray -- in announcing improved net income for the third quarter . 
Cray said it earned $ 30.6 million , or $ 1.04 a share , up 35 % from $ 22.6 million , or 73 cents a share , a year ago . 
For the nine months , earnings totaled $ 36.6 million , or $ 1.24 a share , down 46 % from $ 68.1 million , or $ 2.19 a share , a year earlier . 
Cray made its announcement after the stock market closed . 
Cray said its order backlog at Sept. 30 was $ 315 million , down $ 25 million from June 30 . 
He added that the company expects `` strong '' operating profit for the year , `` but at a level significantly lower than last year . '' 
He said 1989 's net income could be 11 % to 13 % of revenue , which , assuming current expectations , would be 40 % to 45 % below 1988 's level . 
Next year `` looks dismal , '' said analyst Paul Luber of Robert Baird & Co. , Milwaukee . 
Noting that Cray does n't have a low-end supercomputer to compete with the likes of Convex Computer Corp. and International Business Machines Corp. , Mr. Luber said such a machine would be necessary `` to get things back on line here . '' 
Net for the New Brunswick , N.J. , maker of health-care products climbed to $ 265 million , or 80 cents a share , from $ 240 million , or 71 cents a share , in the year-earlier period . 
Mr. Larsen noted `` substantial sales growth '' for the recently introduced Acuvue disposable contact lens and Hismanal , a once-a-day antihistamine . 
But domestic consumer sales slipped 1.2 % for the quarter , to $ 490 million from $ 496 million . 
He cautioned , however , that a `` tough tax-rate comparison '' may slow the company 's earnings growth for the current quarter . 
Six top executives at the New York-based company sold shares in August and September . 
Last March , this newspaper reported on widespread allegations that the company misled many customers into purchasing more credit-data services than needed . 
In June , the company agreed to settle for $ 18 million several lawsuits related to its sales practices , without admitting or denying the charges . 
Dun & Bradstreet 's stock price began its recent spiral downward last Wednesday , when the company reported third-quarter results . 
Last Thursday , Merrill Lynch securities analyst Peter Falco downgraded his investment rating on the firm , according to Dow Jones Professional Investors Report , citing a slowdown in the credit-reporting business . 
He cut his rating to a short-term hold from above-average performer and reduced his 1990 earnings estimate . 
The stock received another blow on Friday , when Goldman Sachs analyst Eric Philo advised that investors with short-term horizons should avoid Dun & Bradstreet stock because it is unlikely to outperform the market . 
But previous sales have often been sales of shares purchased through the exercise of stock options and sold six months later , as soon as allowed , said Robert Gabele , president of Invest\/Net . 
The stock split four-for-one on Oct. 10 . 
Two directors of Pegasus Gold Inc. , a Spokane , Wash. , precious-metals mining firm , sold most of their holdings in the company Aug. 31 . 
John J. Crabb sold 4,500 shares for $ 11.13 each , leaving himself with a stake of 500 shares . 
He received $ 50,085 . John J. Crabb sold 4,500 shares for $ 11.13 each , leaving himself with a stake of 500 shares . 
On Wall Street , Merrill Lynch & Co. analyst Daniel A. Roling rates the stock `` neutral '' and Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. lists it as a `` buy . '' 
Pegasus Gold `` has been on a lot of recommended lists as a junior growth company stepping into the big leagues , '' says Marty McNeill , metals analyst at Dominick & Dominick , a New York investment firm . 
`` It 's a good company , and growing 
Medieval philosophers used to hold the sensible belief that it was more perfect to exist than not to exist , and that to exist as a matter of necessity was most perfect of all . 
Now , only God exists as a matter of absolute necessity 
But since the time of Darwin , we humans could at least claim a sort of natural necessity for the existence of our species . 
His credentials are excellent for the task . 
Yet he puts quite a twist on the old story handed down from Darwin . 
For him , natural history is anything but a gradual , predictable march from primordial slime to human consciousness 
In `` Wonderful Life : The Burgess Shale and the Nature of History '' -LRB- Norton , 326 pages , $ 19.95 -RRB- , Mr. Gould makes his case for `` the awesome improbability of human evolution . '' 
Such an embarrassment of riches was inconceivable to the man who discovered the Burgess Shale , one Charles Doolittle Walcott . 
It was not until the early 1970s that Cambridge Prof. Harry Whittington and two sharp graduate students began to publish a reinterpretation of the Burgess Shale . 
By making clever inferences about how the squashed and distorted fossil remains corresponded to three-dimensional structures , this trio was able to piece together a series of wondrous beasties quite unlike anything currently on the planet . 
Would that Mr. Gould 's minute descriptions of these creatures was always so colorful . 
A good deal of the book is boring , particularly the endless allusions to high and pop culture and the frequent jokes festooning the text . 
Interest picks up , though , when Mr. Gould gets around to discussing the meaning of the Burgess oddities for the theory of evolution . 
Consequently , the winnowing process was like a lottery `` in which each group -LCB- held -RCB- a ticket unrelated to its anatomical virtues . 
So much , too , for the notion that we humans triumphed in the Darwinian struggle by evolving big brains . 
If anyone has difficulty imagining a world in which history went merrily on without us , Mr. Gould sketches several . 
In one , birds are the dominant carnivores 
Mr. Gould finds this oddly exhilarating 
But even if no conscious life had evolved here at all , the universe is a big place , and given the right conditions , sympathetic to creating some form of life . 
Use of the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations law against white-collar defendants , as opposed to alleged organized-crime figures , has come under attack from some defense lawyers and legal scholars . 
Mr. Runkel declined to speculate on whether the guidelines would curb racketeering prosecutions against corporate defendants . 
The talk of a sales tax rise follows a rebuff from Congress on the question of how much the federal government is willing to spend to aid in California 's earthquake relief efforts . 
That leaves the state roughly $ 2 billion to $ 4 billion short . 
A sales tax increase appears to be the fastest and easiest to raise funds in a hurry . 
But observers expect broad support . 
But others think property owners ought to pay a higher portion of the state 's earthquake relief tab . 
Not everyone is convinced the state must raise new revenue to meet its earthquake needs . 
The insured bonds are rated triple-A by Moody 's and S&P . 
Red tape is the bugaboo of small business . 
There is hope of change . 
Some entrepreneurs say the red tape they most love to hate is red tape they would also hate to lose . 
Rules that set standards for products or govern business behavior , generally the best regarded form of red tape , `` create a level playing field and keep unscrupulous competitors away , '' says Sidney West , president of TechDesign International Inc. , a Springfield , Va. , business that designs telecommunication and other products . 
Some gripes about red tape are predictable 
Some gripes about red tape are predictable : Architects complain about a host of building regulations , auto leasing companies about car insurance rules . 
Determining when handicapped access is required can be a nightmare for architects , says Mark Dooling , president of Dooling & Co. , a Newton , Mass. , architectural firm . 
Taxi , leasing and other companies that maintain fleets of vehicles devote substantial resources to complying with state insurance laws and a host of agencies . 
`` It 's very costly and time-consuming , '' says Phil Rosen , a partner in Fleet & Leasing Management Inc. , a Boston car-leasing company . 
Other forms of red tape are more pervasive . 
The most onerous , many entrepreneurs say , is the record-keeping and filing required by tax authorities . 
Next to medical insurance , `` costs of compliance '' are the fastest-growing expense at Impco Inc. , a Providence , R.I. , chemical company . 
Peter Gebhard , the company 's owner , says spending on regulatory paper work and the people to do it -- mostly to comply with federal , state and local environmental laws -- will rise almost 30 % this year to $ 100,000 . 
Eastern Reproduction Corp. , a Waltham , Mass. , maker of thin metal precision parts , must report to five federal and state agencies as well as to local fire , police , hospital and plumbing authorities , says Robert Maguire , president . 
Revising employee manuals on pensions , health care and other subjects costs over $ 25,000 a year for Bert Giguiere , president of Professional Agricultural Management Inc. , a Fresno , Calif. , provider of business services to farmers . 
But the ever-changing laws are usually so complicated and confusing that `` you need professionals to help you 
Complying with these is enough to make business owners look forward to their own pension days . 
Yearly changes in federal benefit laws force small businesses to repeatedly re-evaluate and redesign existing plans . 
Alice Fixx , who runs her own public-relations concern in New York , says she has had to overhaul her pension and profit-sharing plans three times in the past three years . 
`` It does n't increase benefits , but it 's costly and time-consuming , '' Ms. Fixx says . 
Advertising agencies and other service companies are exempt from city and state sales tax in most locales -- but the exemption comes at a price of exhaustive records and rigorous reviews . 
To justify their exempt status and avoid penalties , these businesses must show once a year that each and every transaction on which they did n't pay sales tax was a legitimate business expense . 
When the Trinity Repertory Theater named Anne Bogart its artistic director last spring , the nation 's theatrical cognoscenti arched a collective eyebrow . 
She held her fire with her first production at the Trinity earlier this season . 
Now , with the opening of Maxim Gorky 's bourgeois-bashing `` Summerfolk , '' Ms. Bogart has laid her cards on the table . 
And `` Summerfolk , '' penned in 1904 as a kind of sequel to Chekhov 's `` Cherry Orchard , '' is a lawn party of Russian yuppies engaged in an exhausting ideological fight to the finish between the allrightniks and the reformers . 
Wisely Ms. Bogart has kept Gorky 's time and place intact . 
But beyond this decorative nod to tradition , Ms. Bogart and company head off in a stylistic direction that all but transforms Gorky 's naturalistic drama into something akin to , well , farce . 
The director 's attempt to force some Brechtian distance between her actors and their characters frequently backfires with performances that are unduly mannered . 
Like Peter Sellars , Ms. Bogart manipulates her actors as if they were rag dolls , sprawling them on staircases , dangling them off tables , even hanging them from precipices while having them perform some gymnastic feats of derring-do . 
There are moments in this `` Summerfolk '' when the characters populating the vast multilevel country house -LRB- which looks like a parody of Frank Lloyd Wright and is designed by Victoria Petrovich -RRB- spout philosophic bon mots with the self-conscious rat-a-tat-tat pacing of `` Laugh In . '' 
`` Talk hurts from where it spurts , '' one of them says . 
The clash of ideologies survives this treatment , but the nuance and richness of Gorky 's individual characters have vanished in the scuffle . 
Indeed , during a recent post-production audience discussion , the director explained that her fondest artistic wish was to find a way to play `` Somewhere Over the Rainbow '' so that the song 's `` original beauty comes through , '' surmounting the cliche . 
Ms. Bogart 's cast is part and parcel of the problem . 
Ed Shea and Barbara Orson never find a real reason for their love affair as the foolish , idealistic young Vass and the tirelessly humanitarian doctor Maria Lvovna . 
Cynthia Strickland as the long-suffering Varvara is a tiresome whiner , not the inspirational counterrevolutionary Gorky intended . 
Better to look in the corners for performances that inspire or amuse . 
Janice Duclos , in addition to possessing one of the evening 's more impressive vocal instruments , brings an unsuspected comedic touch to her role of Olga , everybody 's favorite mom . 
MORGAN STANLEY , THE ONCE STODGY investment house , in 1974 helped a corporate client complete a hostile takeover . 
On July 18 , 1974 , International Nickle of Canada -- advised by Morgan -- offered $ 28 a share , equal to $ 157 million , for ESB , a Philadelphia battery maker . 
ESB directors warmly accepted , but a whirlwind bidding match ensued . 
Within a few days in July , Inco raised its bid to $ 36 and United matched it . 
On a single day Inco lifted its offer to $ 38 and then to $ 41 , equal to $ 225.5 million . 
ESB on July 29 accepted the Inco offer and the brief battle -- unlike the intricate and lengthy big takeovers of 1984-1989 -- was over . 
The new gritty game became a money maker for Wall Street 's once austere old-name houses . 
Inco paid Morgan an advisory fee of about $ 250,000 , a paltry figure by today 's measures . 
HomeFed had been one of the handful of large West Coast thrifts that in recent quarters had counteracted interest-rate problems dogging the industry by keeping a lid on problem assets and lending heavily into the furious California housing market . 
Meanwhile , non-performing assets rose to $ 593 million from $ 518.7 million . 
Some $ 380 million of the troubled assets is repossessed real estate , a 55.6 % surge from the $ 244.2 million of repossesed property HomeFed held a year ago . 
HomeFed said most of the troubled assets are apartment complexes , shopping malls and other commercial real estate . 
It said about half are in California , with the rest scattered across the country . 
But HomeFed said it purposely curbed loan originations in the quarter because of uncertainty over the new capital requirements and regulations that will emerge from negotiations over implementing the government 's massive thrift bailout bill . 
The thrift said earnings also were nicked in the quarter by a $ 4 million provision for losses associated with its previously reported plan to liquidate a real-estate franchise network . 
The average yield on six-month CDs of $ 50,000 and less slipped to 7.96 % from 8.00 % , according to Banxquote Money Markets , an information service based here . 
`` Because of shrinkage in the economy , rates can be expected to decline over a one-year horizon , '' said Norberto Mehl , chairman of Banxquote . 
The average yield on small-denomination three-month CDs moved up two-hundredths of a percentage point in the latest week to 7.85 % . 
Long-term CDs declined just a fraction . 
Only CDs sold by major brokerage firms posted significant increases in average yields in the latest week , reflecting increased yields on Treasury bills sold at Monday 's auction . 
The average yield on six-month broker-sold CDs rose to 8.29 % from 8.05 % and on one-year CDs the average yield rose to 8.30 % from 8.09 % . 
So-called jumbo CDs , typically in denominations of $ 90,000 and up , also usually follow T-bills and interest rate trends in general more than those aimed at small investors . 
Some jumbos posted fractional changes in average yields this week , both up and down . 
The average yield on threemonth jumbos rose to 8.00 % from 7.96 % , while the two-year average fell by the same amount to 7.89 % . 
`` The -LRB- CD -RRB- market is unsettled right now , '' said Banxquote 's Mr. Mehl . 
At Chase Manhattan Bank in New York , for example , the yield on a small denomination six-month CD fell about a quarter of a percentage point to 8.06 % . 
In response to questions after the annual meeting , Mr. Miller said the company is no longer looking for an equity investor . 
For the nine months , the company said profit fell 49 % to $ 23.5 million from $ 46 million in the year-earlier quarter , which included divestiture-related gains of $ 50.6 million . 
At first UAL did n't open because of an order imbalance . 
When it did a half-hour into the session , it was priced at $ 150 a share , down more than $ 28 from Monday 's close . 
It sank further to as low as $ 145 , but a big rally developed in the last half hour , pushing the stock back up to close at $ 170 , down just $ 8.375 from Monday . 
`` Options traders , arbitrage traders -- everyone , '' said Mr. Bates , cooling down with a carton of apple juice after the close yesterday . 
Big Board traders said a 200,000-share buy order at $ 150 a share entered by Bear , Stearns & Co. , which was active in UAL stock all day , is what set off the UAL crowd in the late afternoon . 
Both Jacobson traders , who had been hoping UAL trading would get back to normal , read the news about the unraveling of UAL takeover plans on the train into work yesterday morning . 
The news told them it would be a while longer before UAL resumed trading like a regular airline stock after months of gyrations . 
Messrs. Jacobson and Bates walked on the Big Board floor at about 8:45 a.m. yesterday and immediately spotted trouble . 
The UAL news had already caused a selling furor in the so-called third market , in which firms buy and sell stock away from the exchange floor . 
UAL , which closed on the Big Board Monday at $ 178.375 a share , traded in the third market afterward as low as $ 158 a share . 
And at 9:15 , they posted a $ 135 to $ 155 `` first indication , '' or the price range in which the stock would probably open . 
When UAL finally opened a half hour late , some 400,000 shares traded at $ 150 . 
This month 's Friday-the-13th market plunge spurred by UAL news was n't as bad for the Jacobson specialists as yesterday 's action . 
On that earlier day , the stock 's trading was halted at a critical time so the specialists could catch their breath . 
But yesterday , the heavy trading action eventually consumed not only Messrs. Jacobson and Bates but four other Jacobson partners , all doing their specialist-firm job of tugging buyers and sellers together and adjusting prices to accommodate the market . 
About 30 floor traders crammed near the UAL post most of the day , and probably hundreds more came and went -- a `` seething mass , '' as one trader described it . 
The Bear Stearns order that marked the late-day turnaround caused a `` massive buying effort '' as UAL jumped $ 20 a share to $ 170 in the last half hour , said Mr. Bates . 
With 15 seconds of trading to go , Mr. Jacobson , with what voice he had left , announced to the trading mob : `` We 're going to trade one price on the bell . '' 
Big Board traders praised the Jacobson specialists for getting through yesterday without a trading halt . 
Leaving the exchange at about 5 p.m. , the Jacobson specialists made no predictions about how trading might go today . 
He also said investment by businesses is falling off . 
As a result , Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher 's government is n't currently expected to ease interest rates before next spring , if then . 
Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson views the high rates as his chief weapon against inflation , which was ignited by tax cuts and loose credit policies in 1986 and 1987 . 
Fending off attacks on his economic policies in a House of Commons debate yesterday , Mr. Lawson said inflation `` remains the greatest threat to our economic well-being '' and promised to take `` whatever steps are needed '' to choke it off . 
Many economists have started predicting a mild recession next year . 
Still , Britain 's current slump is a cause for concern here as the nation joins in the European Community 's plan to create a unified market by 1992 . 
But while September exports rose to # 8.43 billion , imports shot up to # 10.37 billion . 
Despite the narrowing of the monthly trade gap , economists expect the current account deficit for all of 1989 to swell to about # 20 billion from # 14.6 billion in 1988 . 
Increasingly , economists say the big deficit reflects the slipping competitive position of British industry . 
Mr. Hulings gloats that he sold all his stocks a week before the market plummeted 190 points on Oct. 13 , and he is using the money to help buy a 45-acre horse farm . 
But experts caution that this is n't a game for anyone with a weak stomach or wallet . 
`` It 's a big-risk business , '' warns Charles C. Mihalek , a Lexington attorney and former Kentucky state securities commissioner . 
And many have done just that . 
Consider Spendthrift Farm , a prominent Lexington horse farm that went public in 1983 but hit hard times and filed for bankruptcy-court protection last year . 
Other investors have lost millions in partnerships that bought thoroughbred racehorses or stallion breeding rights . 
One big problem has been the thoroughbred racehorse market . 
From 1974 to 1984 , prices for the best yearlings at the summer sales rose 918 % to an average of $ 544,681 . 
But that 's for the best horses , with most selling for much less -- as little as $ 100 for some pedestrian thoroughbreds . 
Even while they move outside their traditional tony circle , racehorse owners still try to capitalize on the elan of the sport . 
Glossy brochures circulated at racetracks gush about the limelight of the winner 's circle and high-society schmoozing . 
Maybe it 's not that simple . 
And for every champion , there are plenty of nags . 
One brown two-year-old filly was wheezing from a cold , while another had splints on its legs , keeping both animals from the racetrack . 
`` You can see the highs and lows of the business all under one roof , '' she tells the group . 
Perhaps the biggest hurdle owners face is convincing newcomers that this is a reputable business . 
But some are skeptical of the code 's effectiveness . 
Despite the drop in prices for thoroughbreds , owning one still is n't cheap . 
At the low end , investors can spend $ 15,000 or more to own a racehorse in partnership with others . 
But that means paying the horse 's maintenance 
BUELL INDUSTRIES Inc. halved its quarterly dividend to five cents a share , payable Nov. 17 to stock of record Nov. 3 . 
The company 's quarterly dividend had been 10 cents a share since April 30 , 1988 . 
Dunkin ' Donuts ' announcement followed DD Acquisition 's request to the Delaware Court of Chancery Monday to set a trial date for its suit against the company . 
The Stamford , Conn. , power-generation products and services company said per-share earnings were 56 cents compared with the year-ago loss of $ 2.39 . 
Combustion reported improved profits in its automation and control products businesses , and it narrowed its losses in its public sector and environmental segment . 
Net in the latest quarter included a pretax gain of $ 22.4 million from the sale of Combustion 's minority interest in Stein Industrie to GEC Alsthom N.V. of the Netherlands . 
Mr. Bebear added that the French insurer would keep Farmers ' headquarters in Los Angeles and `` will not send French people to run the company . '' 
The bid is part of Sir James Goldsmith 's unfriendly takeover attempt for B.A.T Industries PLC , the British tobacco , retailing , paper and financial-services giant that acquired Farmers last year for $ 5.2 billion . 
Hearings on Axa 's acquisition application have been set for Nov. 13 in Idaho ; Nov. 20 in Illinois ; Nov. 24 and Dec. 4 in Arizona ; Dec. 11 in Washington state ; and Jan. 8 in Oregon . 
Hearings have n't yet been set in Texas , Ohio and Kansas . Hearings on Axa 's acquisition application have been set for Nov. 13 in Idaho ; Nov. 20 in Illinois ; Nov. 24 and Dec. 4 in Arizona ; Dec. 11 in Washington state ; and Jan. 8 in Oregon . 
Although Axa has been rebuffed by Farmers and has n't had any meetings with management , Mr. Bebear nonetheless appears to be trying to woo the company 's executives with promises of autonomy and new-found authority under Axa . 
Those credits result because of taxes that Farmers , as the management company , has paid , and have `` proved to be very important for the exchanges , '' a Farmers spokesman said . 
Honeywell said a second sale of Yamatake-Honeywell is still being negotiated . 
The company , which now holds a 34 % stake in the venture , has indicated that it intends to retain at least a 20 % stake long term . 
OPPENHEIMER CAPITAL LIMITED PARTNERSHIP increased the quarterly distribution to 40 cents a limited partnership unit from 36.25 cents . 
OPPENHEIMER CAPITAL LIMITED PARTNERSHIP increased the quarterly distribution to 40 cents a limited partnership unit from 36.25 cents . The distribution represents available cash flow from the partnership between Aug. 1 and Oct. 31 . 
The bank said the C$ 1 billion in reserves will result in a charge of C$ 595 million against earnings but said it still expects to report a profit for the year ending Tuesday . 
The bank reported net income of C$ 389 million for the nine months ended July 31 . 
The bank said reserves now amount to 61 % of its total less-developed-country exposure . 
The media concern said net income rose to $ 37.8 million , or 72 cents a share , from $ 32 million , or 57 cents a share , in the year-earlier period . 
Robert F. Singleton , Knight-Ridder 's chief financial officer , said the company was `` pleased '' with its overall performance , despite only single-digit growth in newspaper revenue . 
ALBERTA ENERGY Co. , Calgary , said it filed a preliminary prospectus for an offering of common shares . 
The company plans to raise between C$ 75 million and C$ 100 million from the offering , according to a spokeswoman at Richardson Greenshields of Canada Ltd. , lead underwriter . 
In a strongly worded response summarizing a filing made in the same court yesterday , GE asserted that `` prosecutors have misstated the testimony of witnesses , distorted documents and ignored important facts . '' 
The company , for its part , maintains that many of the disputed documents are privileged attorney-client communications that should n't be turned over to prosecutors . 
The government 's 136-page filing covers events leading up to the current case and an earlier indictment in March 1985 , when GE was accused of defrauding the Pentagon by illegally claiming cost overruns on Minuteman missile contracts . 
Prosecutors depict a company that allegedly sat on damaging evidence of overcharges from 1983 to 1985 , despite warnings from an internal auditor . 
GE , which was surprised by the last-minute subpoena for more than 100 boxes and file cabinets of documents , countered that senior GE managers did n't find out about questionable billing practices until 1985 , and that the information was passed on quickly to Mr. Orr at his first meeting with company representatives . 
The proposed acquisition provides for a cash payment of $ 10 a share at closing and a contingent payment of as much as 80 cents a share placed in escrow . 
London share prices closed sharply lower Tuesday on the back of Wall Street 's steep drop and renewed fears over U.K. economic fundamentals . 
London 's Financial Times 100-share index shed 40.4 points to finish at 2149.3 . 
British life insurer London & General , which firmed 2 pence to 356 pence -LRB- $ 5.70 -RRB- , and composite insurer Royal Insurance , which finished 13 lower at 475 , were featured in the talk . 
Jaguar finished 4 lower at 694 . 
The Nikkei index fell 58.97 points to 35526.55 . 
The market , however , is expected to remain stable and expectations for future gains are high , traders said . 
Buying activity Tuesday centered on a wide range of midcapitalization , domestic demand-related shares whose prices range from 1,000 to 2,000 yen . 
Tuesday 's notable losers were highpriced shares such as Pioneer , which shed 210 yen to 5,900 yen . 
Tuesday 's notable losers were highpriced shares such as Pioneer , which shed 210 yen to 5,900 yen . Sony was down 130 to 8,590 . 
Share prices on the Frankfurt stock exchange closed sharply lower in thin dealings as worried investors remained idle as the result of two potentially destabilizing domestic developments . 
Cutting against the downward trend was Continental , which jumped 4 marks to 346 marks -LRB- $ 187 -RRB- in heavy trading on rumors that the tire maker is about to be taken over . 
Traders said the market was exceptionally thin , as small investors remain on the sidelines . 
On Sunday , the governing Christian Democratic Union suffered a series of setbacks , the extent of which became fully known only late Monday , in municipal elections in Baden-Wuerttemberg . 
And statements by the chairman of the IG Metall labor union , Franz Steinkuehler , also cast a cloud over trading , dealers said . 
The decline in prices cut broadly through the blue-chip issues , as Siemens tumbled 7.5 to 544 , Deutsche Bank plunged 7 to 657 , and the auto makers fell sharply as well . 
Elsewhere , share prices closed lower in Zurich , Amsterdam , Milan and Stockholm . 
To make them directly comparable , each index is based on the close of 1969 equaling 100 . 
They said the agreement will be submitted to their respective supervisory boards next Wednesday . 
But that does n't necessarily mean thrifts are discriminating against blacks , the agency said . 
Nevertheless , on Capitol Hill , where the information was released yesterday at a Senate banking subcommittee hearing , lawmakers said they are worried that financial institutions are routinely discriminating against minorities . 
James Grohl , a spokesman for the U.S. League of Savings Institutions , said , `` The data is a red flag , but lacking the financial data you ca n't make a case that discrimination is widespread . '' 
Several lawmakers were angered that the bank and thrift regulators generally said they have been too busy handling the record number of bank and thrift failures in the past few years to put much energy into investigating possible discrimination . 
Officials of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency said they have punished only a few banks for violations of anti-discrimination laws . 
The comptroller 's office said it found no indications of illegal discrimination in 3,437 examinations of banks since April 1987 . 
The comptroller 's office also said that of 37,000 complaints it received since January 1987 , only 16 alleged racial discrimination in real estate lending . 
Mr. Fiechter said that among the possibilities being considered by regulators to fight discrimination is the use of `` testers '' -- government investigators who would pose as home buyers . 
The Department of Housing and Urban Development has used testers to investigate discrimination in rental housing . 
Last week , Tele-Communications agreed to pay Viacom Inc. $ 225 million for a 50 % stake in its Showtime subsidiary , which is a distant second to Time 's Home Box Office in the delivery of pay-TV networks to cable subscribers . 
Tele-Communications is HBO 's largest customer , and the two have a number of other business relationships . 
Tele-Communications is HBO 's largest customer , and the two have a number of other business relationships . Earlier this year , Time even discussed bringing Tele-Communications in as an investor in HBO , executives at both companies said . 
Time is expected to mount a legal challenge in U.S. District Court in New York , where Viacom in May filed a $ 2.5 billion antitrust suit charging Time and HBO with monopolizing the pay-TV business and trying to crush competition from Showtime . 
Executives involved in plotting Time 's defense say it is now preparing a countersuit naming both Viacom and Tele-Communications as defendants . 
Viacom officials declined to comment . 
In addition to owning HBO , with 22 million subscribers , Time Warner separately operates cable-TV system serving about 5.6 million cable-TV subscribers . 
In its suit against Time , Viacom says the ownership of both cable systems and cable-programming networks gives the company too much market power . 
Time argues that in joining up with Tele-Communications , Viacom has potentially more power , particularly since Viacom also owns cable networks MTV , VH-1 and Nick at Nite . 
Ironically , Tele-Communications and Time have often worked closely in the cable business . 
Together , they control nearly 40 % of Turner Broadcasting Systems 
But since Time 's merger with Warner Communications Inc. , relations between the two have become strained . 
Meanwhile , some legal observers say the Tele-Communications investment and other developments are weakening Viacom 's antitrust suit against Time . 
Citing rising fuel costs , promotional fare cuts and a general slowdown in travel , several major carriers have posted or are expected to post relatively poor third-quarter results . 
And they say the outlook for 1990 is nearly as bad . 
This turn of events has put a big damper on an industry that seemed almost invincible last spring , when fares were rising at double-digit rates and many carriers seemed to be growing fat on near-monopolies in certain markets . 
Now , many airline companies might become a lot less attractive as takeover targets on Wall Street . 
For travelers , though , the industry 's problems have had some positive effects . 
In recent weeks , airlines have cut numerous fares in leisure markets to try to win back customers . 
The industry 's slowdown became apparent this month when AMR Corp. , parent of American Airlines , reported an 8.8 % drop in third-quarter net income and said its fourth quarter would be `` disappointing . '' 
Shortly before that , USAir had said its third-quarter results would be `` significantly lower '' than a year earlier . 
Its loss of $ 77.7 million , or $ 1.86 a share , contrasted with net of $ 68.5 million , or $ 1.58 a share , in the 1988 third quarter . 
For the nine months , the Arlington , Va. , company 's net plunged 73 % to $ 38.5 million , or 76 cents a share , from $ 142.2 million , or $ 3.28 a share . 
Shortly after announcing its quarterly loss , USAir 's stock tumbled $ 3 a share . 
`` Nobody was expecting this size of a loss , '' said Paul Karos , an analyst with First Boston Corp . 
In announcing the results , USAir cited many of the same problems that several other industry officials have named recently . 
It said the industry 's domestic traffic was flat in the third quarter ; analysts say this was because hefty fare increases earlier in the year scared off many leisure travelers this summer . 
To try to combat the traffic slowdown , airlines started reducing fares 
Some other fare promotions have backfired . 
This summer , the industry introduced a `` kids fly free '' program , in which children were allowed to fly free if they were traveling with an adult . 
Airlines also say their frequent-flier programs are squeezing profits because awards are being redeemed at a heavier-than-normal rate . 
Rising operating expenses are another problem . 
Fuel costs were up 10 % in the third quarter . 
And some carriers are facing other unexpected headaches : USAir , for example , blamed some of its loss on merger expenses and on disruptions caused by Hurricane Hugo last month . 
Whatever the cause for the downturn , few people are predicting any sudden improvement . 
Airline Economics Inc. , an aviation consulting firm , is projecting an industrywide operating profit of $ 2.5 billion for 1989 , compared with earlier forecasts of $ 3 billion to $ 3.5 billion . 
But now , Charlie Brown is about to start pitching everything from Chex Party Mix to light bulbs . 
The effort will make the Peanuts gang very familiar pitchmen in 1990 . 
General Electric plans to use the characters to plug its Miser light bulb . 
General Electric plans to use the characters to plug its Miser light bulb . Teleflora will run TV ads at Valentine 's Day promoting its `` Snoopy 's Love Bouquet . '' 
Beyond the advertisements , the syndicator is planning a traveling arena show , new TV specials for CBS and even an exhibit at the Smithsonian Institute . 
All the tie-ins , though , have some marketing experts questioning whether the party may go too far . 
`` There are too many people participating , '' says Al Ries , of Trout & Ries , a Greenwich , Conn. , marketing consulting firm . 
But United Media says it 's very scrupulous with the contracts it hands out . 
Mr. Berry , 58 , had resigned after being asked by Ogilvy 's chairman and chief executive officer , Kenneth Roman , to give up his title as creative head of the New York office and to take a fuzzier international role . 
The naming of FCB\/Leber Katz Partners as agency of record for Nabisco Brands Inc. and Planters LifeSavers Co. follows RJR Nabisco 's announcement last week that it will disband its RJR Nabisco Broadcast division and dismiss its 14 employees Dec. 1. to cut costs . 
Interpublic Group of Cos. said third-quarter net rose 15 % to $ 6.9 million , or 21 cents a share , from $ 6 million , or 18 cents a share , in the year-earlier period . 
PepsiCo Inc. will give away 4,000 sets of `` Game Boy , '' Nintendo 's new hand-held video game in a two-month promotion scheduled to begin Nov. 1 . 
That reassessment resulted in continuing asset sales , as well as write-offs exceeding A$ 1.1 billion last fiscal year . 
While some assets have been written down , others are undervalued in the accounts , Mr. Bond maintained . 
Among these are the company 's Australian brewing assets , in the books at A$ 950 million but actually worth A$ 2.5 billion , he said . 
He did n't name energy resources in that list , signaling that all the company 's coal and oil interests might be for sale in total or in part . 
Mercedes officials said they expect flat sales next year even though they see the U.S. luxury-car market expanding slightly . 
Apogee said the charge stems from a building supply contract in which the company guaranteed a contractor 's performance . 
He also said the introduction of a 3 % consumption tax in April has helped sales . 
Production of cars rose to 801,835 units in September , a 5.5 % increase from a year earlier . 
Midsized cars accounted for the greatest growth in units , rising 62,872 units to 134,550 units , or 88 % . 
Minicar output more than tripled . 
Total truck production fell 22 % from a year earlier to 315,546 units . 
Bus production also slipped , by 49 % from a year earlier to 2,936 units . 
Auto production for the first half of the fiscal year , which began in August , totaled 6,379,884 units , the association said . 
But then steady , concentrated buying by Bear , Stearns & Co. , which frequently buys stock for corporate raiders , took hold and steadied the fall in UAL , which eventually buoyed the entire market . 
UAL stock closed at $ 170 a share , down $ 8.375 . 
Volume was a tumultuous 4.9 million shares , or 22 % of the 21.8 million UAL shares outstanding . 
Takeover-stock traders , stung by their huge losses in UAL stock , remained eager for some action by an outside catalyst following the collapse Oct. 13 of a $ 300-a-share , $ 6.79 billion labor-management buy-out . 
It would make sense for somebody to do it . 
Any investor who acquires UAL stock in an attempt to force a buy-out or recapitalization must deal with United 's contentious unions . 
The pilots are working under an expired contract , and the machinists contract expires next month . 
However , a catalyst like Coniston could seek shareholder support for a sale to a labor-management group at the last price discussed by that group before the board meeting Monday . 
But the board 's decision prompted many to bail out of the stock yesterday . 
Another trader noted that many arbitrage firms are afraid to sell their UAL stock at the bottom , but already own so much they ca n't buy any more . 
`` This deal is like a Roach Motel , '' he said . 
But both the traders and the pilots remain interested in some transaction . 
The pilots might end up teaming up with their longtime adversaries , the machinists union , in a recapitalization . 
The machinists are reviewing proposals they made in the past for recapitalizations that would pay a special shareholder dividend and give employees a minority stake . 
It is unclear , however , if the machinists would support a majority stake , as the pilots want . 
Some investors whose names were bandied about by traders as potential UAL stock buyers said they were n't buying . 
`` I 'm not interested , '' said Dallas investor Harold Simmons . 
Marvin Davis , whose $ 5.4 billion takeover bid originally put the nation 's second-largest airline in play , is limited by a standstill agreement with UAL he signed in September . 
William Kaiser , president of the Kaiser Financial Group in Chicago , said the decline was almost certainly influenced by the early sell-off in the stock market , which partly reflected a weakening economy . 
He said the recent decline in copper stocks was misleading in the face of a slowdown in manufacturing . 
But though a weakening economy implies reduced demand , Mr. Kaiser said that Third World copper-producing countries have n't any choice but to sell copper . 
Technically , Mr. Kaiser noted that a lot of traders had bought into the market when the price was in the $ 1.24 to $ 1.26 range , thinking there was support at the $ 1.20 level . 
Betty Raptopoulos , senior metals analyst at Prudential-Bache Securities in New York , agreed that most of the selling was of a technical nature . 
She said the market hit the $ 1.18 level at around 10 a.m. EDT where it encountered a large number of stop-loss orders . 
Ms. Raptopoulos said the settling of strikes in Canada and Mexico will have little effect on supplies of copper until early next year . 
She thinks the next area of support for copper is in the $ 1.09 to $ 1.10 range . 
She noted that the preliminary estimate of the third-quarter gross national product is due out tomorrow and is expected to be up about 2.5 % to 3 % . 
He noted that currently the ratio of available copper to consumption is about 3.5 weeks . 
According to Mr. Threlkeld , the bottleneck in copper production is n't at the mines but at the copper refineries . 
`` It takes three months to turn copper concentrate into cathodes , '' he said . 
If there is n't a recession , he said , `` we will be out of copper by the end of March . 
If there is a recession that will change the statistical situation . '' 
ENERGY : The attitude was `` wait-and-see '' in crude oil futures yesterday in trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange . 
Prices for the U.S. benchmark West Texas Intermediate crude remained locked in a fairly narrow range before ending the session four cents lower at $ 19.72 a barrel for December delivery . 
But an early 80-point drop in the Dow Jones Industrial Average stopped the crude rally cold . 
PRECIOUS METALS : Futures prices inched upward in mostly lackluster trading . 
December gold was up $ 3.20 an ounce at $ 373.40 ; December silver gained 5.7 cents to $ 5.1950 an ounce . 
January platinum rose $ 2.30 an ounce to $ 488.60 . 
Mr. Kaiser said there were no fundamental factors moving these markets . 
Ms. Raptopoulos thought yesterday 's price action reflected weakness in the stock market and the dollar . 
`` Gold still acts as a haven when uncertainty prevails in the financial markets as it did '' yesterday , she said . 
Mr. Kaiser noted that gold was more than 71 times the price of silver at the close yesterday , which is historically high . 
The sale to the Chinese government of 330,000 metric tons of wheat under the government 's export enhancement program was announced after the close of trading Monday , but the sale was expected and failed to buoy prices yesterday , said Dale Gustafson , a futures analyst with Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. in Chicago . 
As for other export customers , the Soviet Union is n't expected to be back buying U.S. corn in significant amounts until early next year , he said . 
COCOA : Futures at first continued the rally begun on Monday , but then faltered and closed lower . 
The December contract opened just under Monday 's close , triggered some previously placed buy orders just above $ 1,030 a metric ton , pushing the price to $ 1,040 , and then encountered heavy selling by traders who buy and sell for their own accounts and by commercial interests . 
Robert Hafer , senior commodities analyst at Kaiser Financial Group , said Monday 's rally continued yesterday for only about 20 minutes after the opening . 
The December contract reached its life-of-contract low of $ 975 a ton on Oct. 11 ; its lifetime high was $ 1,735 , set in 1988 , and its recent high was $ 1,368 , set in early August . 
Citizens First , which controls Citizens First National Bank and is based in Glen Rock , N.J. , will pay a maximum of 40 % in cash for the parent of Lakeland Savings Bank and the remainder in convertible preferred stock , with a liquidation value of $ 18 a share . 
Color Systems , which converts black-and-white film to color videotape , posted a loss of $ 7.1 million , or $ 1.32 a share , on revenue of $ 10.6 million for the fiscal year ended June 30 . 
SCI TV , which expects to release a plan to restructure $ 1.3 billion of debt in the next day or so , is n't just another LBO that went bad after piling on debt -- though it did do that . 
SCI TV 's six stations once were part of Storer Communications . 
In 1987 , KKR for the second time piled debt onto Storer 's TV stations , selling them for $ 1.3 billion to a new entity that was 45%-owned by KKR and 55%-owned by Gillett Corp. , which now operates the SCI TV stations . 
So , while KKR today has an estimated $ 250 million sunk in now-shaky SCI TV , including equity and debt , the LBO firm still is $ 1 billion ahead on the SCI TV buy-out after taking cash up front . 
Meanwhile , Mr. Gillett risks losing his entire equity investment of about $ 100 million in SCI TV if the company ca n't be restructured . 
SCI TV 's grace period for paying its bills is due to expire Nov. 16 . 
But it 's understood that Mr. Kravis is disappointed that Mr. Gillett did n't manage to boost SCI TV 's operating profit after the buy-out . 
As for junk-holders , they 're discovering it can be a mistake to take the other side of a trade by KKR . 
People who have seen SCI TV 's restructuring plan say it offers concessions by KKR and Gillett Corp . 
But some militant SCI TV junk-holders say that 's not enough . 
They contend that SCI TV 's equity now is worthless . 
They add that it is n't costing KKR anything to give up equity because of its big up-front cash profit on the buy-out , which they think contributed to SCI TV 's current problems . 
Junk-holders say they have a stick to beat KKR with : `` The threat of bankruptcy is a legitimate tool '' to extract money from KKR , says one big SCI TV holder . 
Rubbermaid officials said they are n't aware of any effort to take over the company , but believed the shareholder plan needed to be strengthened . 
For the third quarter , Rubbermaid earned $ 32.6 million , or 44 cents a share , up 16 % from $ 28.1 million , or 38 cents a share , a year earlier . 
At the end of it all , the Dow Jones Industrial Average closed down 3.69 to 2659.22 . 
New York Stock Exchange volume was 237,960,000 shares . 
Yesterday 's sell-off and rebound was a powerful reminder that 11 days after the 190-point plunge on Friday the 13th , the stock market still has a bad case of nerves . 
`` October 13th left us with a cut and exposed nerve , '' said Jack Solomon , technical analyst for Bear Stearns . 
`` People are fearful and sensitive . 
Everybody 's finger is one inch closer to the button . 
For many , it began to look like a replay of Oct. 13 . 
As stocks and stock-index futures fell , a trading limit was hit in the S&P 500 stock futures pit . 
Under a post-1987 crash reform , the Chicago Mercantile Exchange would n't permit the December S&P futures to fall further than 12 points for a half hour . 
But at a critical moment , stock-index arbitrage traders showed their power and control . 
`` It is very clear that those buy orders came from people who wanted their franchise protected , '' said one Chicago-based futures trader . 
Shearson Lehman Hutton declined to comment . 
As in the Oct. 13 massacre , yesterday morning 's drop was triggered by bad news for speculators in UAL . 
A UAL statement after the market closed Monday indicated that the airline 's board wanted to keep the company independent , effectively crushing hopes of an immediate buy-out . 
UAL finally opened for trading at 10:08 a.m. at 150 , down $ 28 . 
Floor traders said there was a huge crowd around the Big Board specialist 's post where UAL trades . 
Takeover speculators -- who have already taken a record loss estimated at more than $ 700 million on UAL -- started selling other stocks as well as S&P futures in an attempt to hedge against a further UAL blood bath . 
By 10:30 a.m. the Dow was down 62.70 . 
At 10:33 , when the S&P 500 December futures contract crunched to a 12-point loss under the force of sell programs , S&P futures trading was halted and program trades on the Big Board were routed into a special computer that scans for order imbalances . 
Under the rules adopted by the Chicago Mercantile Exchange , the futures contract can not drop below the limit , but buyers can purchase futures . 
`` It was whooosh ! '' said one futures trader . 
In five minutes , the Dow industrials climbed almost 30 points . 
Traders said the futures buying was finely calculated by program traders . 
Almost simultaneously , PaineWebber began a very visible buy program for dozens of stocks . 
Some institutional traders loved the wild ride . 
`` This is fun , '' asserted Susan Del Signore , head equity trader at Travelers Investment Management Co . 
She said she used the market 's wild swings to buy shares cheaply on the sell-off . 
But traders who risk money handling big blocks of stock were shaken . 
Dow Jones climbed 5 3\/4 to 41 on very heavy volume of 786,100 shares . 
Analysts said a big Japanese buy order was behind the rise . 
UAL finished at 170 , off 8 3\/8 . 
Other airline stocks fell in response to the UAL board 's decision to remain independent for now , including USAir Group , which separately reported a third-quarter loss of $ 1.86 a share compared with a year-ago profit . 
AMR , the parent of American Airlines , fell 1 3\/4 to 68 7\/8 on 2.3 million shares ; Delta Air Lines lost 1 1\/2 to 66 , Southwest Airlines slid 3\/4 to 24 1\/4 and Midway Airlines dropped 1\/4 to 14 7\/8 . 
Metals stocks also were especially weak , as concerns about the earnings outlook for cyclical companies weighed on the group . 
Aluminum Co. of America dropped 1 1\/2 to 70 1\/4 , Phelps Dodge fell 4 to 59 7\/8 , Asarco lost 1 3\/8 to 31 3\/4 , Reynolds Metals slid 1 3\/8 to 50 3\/8 , Amax dropped 1 1\/8 to 21 5\/8 and Cyprus Minerals skidded 2 to 26 3\/4 . 
Goodyear Tire & Rubber tumbled 2 7\/8 to 43 7\/8 . 
Its third-quarter earnings were higher than a year ago , but fell short of expectations . 
BankAmerica dropped 1 1\/4 to 29 1\/2 on 2.3 million shares amid rumors that the earthquake last week in the San Francisco area had caused structural damage to its headquarters building . 
Stocks of California-based thrifts also were hard hit . 
Great Western Financial lost 1 1\/8 to 20 1\/2 on 1.6 million shares , Golden West Financial dropped 1 1\/4 to 28 1\/2 and H.F. Ahmanson dipped 5\/8 to 21 1\/4 . 
Dividend-related trading swelled volume in two issues : Security Pacific , which fell 7\/8 to 44 1\/2 and led the Big Board 's most actives list on composite volume of 14.8 million shares , and Nipsco Industries , which lost 3\/8 to 17 3\/8 on 4.4 million shares . 
Kellogg surged 4 1\/4 to 75 . 
Norfolk Southern went up 1 1\/8 to 37 7\/8 . 
Airborne Freight climbed 1 1\/8 to 38 1\/2 . 
GANNETT Co. raised its quarterly dividend 11 % to 30 cents a share from 27 cents , payable Jan. 2 , 1990 , to shares of record Dec. 8 , 1989 . 
Gannett 's third-quarter earnings rose 11 % to 52 cents a share from 47 cents in the year-ago period . 
Payout of preferred dividends resulted in a net loss of five cents a share in the most recent quarter . 
For the nine months , the insurance company said net fell 46 % to $ 88.8 million , or $ 1.54 a share , from $ 164 million , or $ 3.16 a share , the previous year . 
Third-quarter and nine-month results do n't include any provision for premium returns that could be ordered by the California Department of Insurance under Proposition 103 . 
CONTROL DATA Corp. said it is offering to purchase the $ 154.2 million amount of its 12 3\/4 % senior notes due June 15 , 1991 , at par , plus accrued interest to the Dec. 8 purchase date . 
But the gains in Treasury bonds were pared as stocks staged a partial recovery . 
Economists said the bond market 's strength also is a sign that investors expect the Federal Reserve to cut interest rates amid growing evidence that the economy is slowing . 
The Treasury 's 30-year bond ended over 1\/4 point higher . 
But high-yield , high-risk bonds fell 1\/4 to 1\/2 point with the stock market early in the session and never recovered . 
According to a trader at Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. , the hardest hit junk bonds were those issued by RJR Holdings Capital Corp. , which are the easiest to sell . 
Trading activity in the junk market was extremely light as dealers could n't find enough buyers to match sellers . 
`` While the stock market was falling , most -LCB- junk bond holders -RCB- were just watching it not knowing what to do , '' said Paul Suckow , director of fixed-income securities at Oppenheimer Management Corp . 
`` It was like driving down the highway watching a wreck . 
`` It 's not too surprising that the auction was sloppy , given the volatility in the bond market because of stocks , '' said Robert T. McGee , a senior vice president at Tokai Bank Ltd . 
That was higher than the 7.71 % to 7.73 % average yield that traders had expected . 
`` Interest by Japanese investors was limited , '' said Michael Moran , chief economist at Daiwa Securities America Inc . 
However , Mr. Moran added that the Japanese generally have a positive view of the U.S. bond market because of expectations that the dollar will remain strong and interest rates will decline . 
A small yield premium over comparable Treasurys and a lack of liquidity is hampering dealers ' efforts to drum up interest in the so-called bailout bonds . 
Yesterday , the benchmark 30-year bond was quoted late at 102 18\/32 to yield 7.89 % , compared with 102 9\/32 to yield 7.93 % on Monday . 
Short-term rates were unchanged to slightly lower . 
Three of the largest offerings , by Exxon Capital Corp. , Xerox Corp. and Citicorp , were underwritten by groups led by Salomon Brothers Inc . 
Exxon Capital , long-rumored to be a potential debt issuer , offered $ 200 million of 10-year notes priced to yield 8.31 % . 
Meanwhile , International Business Machines Corp. paved the way for a visit to the credit markets by filing a shelf registration with the Securities and Exchange Commission for $ 800 million in new debt . 
The derivative markets remained active as one new issue was priced and talk circulated about more offerings in the next day or two . 
In the asset-backed market , a big offering of Ford Motor Credit Corp . auto-loan securities was increased in size after strong institutional demand . 
Among major pass-through issues , Ginnie Mae 9 % securities for November delivery ended at 98 15\/32 , up 5\/32 , after touching an early high of 98 27\/32 ; 8 % securities were at 94 5\/32 , up 9\/32 ; 9 1\/2 % securities at 100 15\/32 , up 4\/32 ; and 10 % securities at 102 11\/32 , up 3\/32 . 
In Japan , government bond prices fell . 
The move was made because of the bank-holding company 's increased profitability , officials said . 
Later they said they fired him , and two directors attempted to place the company under bankruptcy-law protection . 
Mr. Wolf and other members of the board declined to comment on the announcement . 
But as many as 12,000 people marched in East Berlin after the speech to protest his election . 
San Francisco Bay area officials said nine people remain missing in the aftermath of last week 's earthquake . 
U.S. officials expressed skepticism over an Israeli effort to show the PLO continues to practice terrorism . 
TV evangelist Jim Bakker was sentenced to 45 years in prison and fined $ 500,000 for defrauding followers of his PTL ministry . 
Lawmakers in Moscow voted to deny the Communist Party its 100 guaranteed seats in the Soviet Congress , meaning Gorbachev and other aides might have to face voters . 
In Warsaw , Shevardnadze held his first talks with the Solidarity-led government and vowed to maintain fuel supplies . 
The Arab League pledged an accord for a complete Syrian troop pullout from Lebanon , where about 70,000 people marched to the headquarters of Christian leader Aoun to support his rejection of a peace plan approved Sunday by Lebanon 's legislature . 
Pro-Iranian kidnappers renewed an offer to trade their captives in Lebanon for at least 15 Shiite Moslem comrades jailed in Kuwait . 
The Treasury Department said S&Ls reject blacks for mortgage loans twice as often as they reject whites . 
Emergency crews searched through the charred rubble of a Phillips Petroleum Co. plastics plant near Pasadena , Texas , where a series of explosions Monday killed at least two people and injured 124 . 
NATO defense ministers opened a two-day meeting in Portugal to assess the alliance 's nuclear-weapons needs amid reduced East-West tensions . 
STOCK PRICES SWUNG wildly as the market reacted to an initial plunge by UAL shares , followed by a sharp rebound in the afternoon . 
The Dow Jones industrials , down over 80 points in the morning , closed off 3.69 , at 2659.22 . 
Bond prices surged in reaction to the sell-off in stocks , then eased slightly during the afternoon recovery . 
UAL 's stock regained most of an early loss amid speculation one or more investors may challenge the airline 's decision to stay independent . 
Ford may seek all of Jaguar , setting the stage for a possible bidding war with GM . 
Car and truck sales slid 20.5 % in mid-October as U.S. manufacturers paid the price for heavy incentives earlier in the year . 
Durable goods orders slipped 0.1 % in September , reflecting weakening auto demand after a spurt of orders for new 1990 models . 
Norfolk Southern 's board approved a buy-back of up to 45 million shares , valued at over $ 1.7 billion . 
Texaco said profit rose 11 % in the quarter , partly due to a massive restructuring . 
Sun posted a gain . 
Sears posted a 16 % drop in third-quarter profit as U.S. retail operations recorded the first loss in over five years . 
In the experiment , mice with the defective gene were mated . 
Three days later , before the new embryo had become implanted in the uterus , it was washed out of the mother mouse . 
The embryo had progressed only to a clump of eight identical cells . 
Using the new technique developed by Cetus Corp. , called the polymerase chain reaction , the scientists rapidly made millions of copies of the section of DNA that ordinarily contains the hemoglobin gene , providing enough copies to test . 
For example , infertile couples who have the woman 's eggs fertilized in the test tube usually have several eggs fertilized at a time . 
When the fertilized cells divide to eight cells , a single cell from each embryo can be tested for genetic defects . 
In the early 1970s , when the `` world food crisis '' was a major worry , Phillips Petroleum Co. , like several other big companies , began developing `` single-cell protein , '' edible protein made by microbes feeding on non-edible materials . 
It also could convert glucose from farm wastes into edible protein . 
They 've now adapted the yeast to making genetically engineered drugs . 
The oil company claims its yeast system also is better than bacteria at high-volume production of genetically engineered drugs . 
A non-invasive method is being researched by biophysicist Lynn Jelinski at the AT&T unit . 
It relies on the fact that certain atoms give off detectable signals when subjected to an intense magnetic field . 
In the Bell Labs experiments , an MRI-type of machine , synchronized with the heartbeat via an electrocardiogram , rapidly flashes a magnetic field on and off as blood passes a certain point in a vessel . 
They now are experimenting with measuring blood flow . 
The suit , filed in federal trial court in Des Moines , Iowa , where Meredith is based , alleges that the diversified media company 's relocation unit cheated the government by misrepresenting the value of government employees ' homes . 
The government contract required Meredith Relocation Corp. to purchase employees ' homes based on independent appraisals . 
Underwriting syndicates at Lloyd 's , the world 's largest insurance market , generally do n't close their accounts for three years , to allow for the filing of claims and litigation . 
When such claims and litigation extend beyond the period , the syndicates can extend their accounting deadlines . 
The open-year accounting practice `` is widely recognized within Lloyd 's as of serious concern '' to the 31,329 member investors , who underwrite insurance at Lloyd 's in return for premium and investment income , Lloyd 's said . 
As a result , the insurance market plans new measures to restrict the ability of syndicate officials to leave years open . 
The nation 's largest software company earned $ 9.6 million , or five cents a share , compared with $ 28 million , or 16 cents a share , a year earlier . 
Anthony Wang , president , attributed the drop to the disruption of the company 's business resulting from the prolonged process of acquiring Cullinet . 
The ads celebrate the achievements of some of Lake View 's residents . 
Another focuses on Charles Brush , the first person to light a city electrically . 
Cemetery officials hope the ads , which will begin airing next month , will not only draw visitors but bolster burials and endowment fund contributions . 
The private , non-profit cemetery has had trouble competing against its for-profit counterparts , which use direct mail and other advertising to sell lots . 
`` We do n't want to be known as ambulance chasers , '' says William Garrison , Lake View 's president . 
`` We want people to think of Lake View as an historical park and educational experience ... . 
Mr. Rockefeller , buried beneath a 180-foot-tall granite obelisk , did n't seem right for an ad either . 
In its first day of when-issued trading here , Euro Disney soared like Dumbo to close at 814 pence -LRB- $ 13.05 -RRB- , up 15 % from its 707-pence offering price . 
The overall London market , following Wall Street 's early nosedive , took a late beating . 
Mr. Dempsey estimated that the issue 's London debut was accompanied by `` very , very heavy turnover -- between five million and six million shares . '' 
Official trading in the shares will start in London , Paris and Brussels on Nov. 6 , when the French-franc denominated offering , valued at the equivalent of nearly $ 1 billion , comes to market in the European Community . 
`` A lot of people are getting hurt on this wicked whipsawing , '' cautioned Alistair Cuddeford , a London-based Salomon Brothers International Ltd. trader who makes a market in franc-denominated Euro Disney shares . 
`` There should be no great rush for investors to buy this . 
The statement was part of a Ford filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission . 
But with its stake in Jaguar , which it raised yesterday to 11.95 % , Ford could convene a special Jaguar shareholders ' meeting and urge holders to vote to drop the restriction sooner . 
`` We have not made that decision '' to seek a Jaguar special shareholders ' meeting , said Martyn Watkins , a Ford spokesman in London . 
Jaguar seems to be losing interest in giving GM a minority stake , said one individual close to the talks , adding , `` It would n't surprise me if -LCB- Jaguar executives -RCB- want to wait and see what the color of that -LCB- Ford bid -RCB- is '' first . 
He predicted Ford officials will meet with Jaguar executives in the next week to outline their proposed offer . 
As for GM , its `` fallback position has to be a full bid itself , '' said Stephen Reitman , European auto-industry analyst at London brokers UBS-Phillips & Drew . 
A Ford takeover of Jaguar would `` have such implications for the balance of power in the 1990s that General Motors ca n't afford to step aside . 
A pitched battle could mean Jaguar would fetch # 10 -LRB- $ 16.02 -RRB- a share , or about # 1.8 billion -LRB- $ 2.88 billion -RRB- , several analysts believe . 
The prospect of such a takeover fight has sent Jaguar shares soaring in recent weeks . 
In a declining London stock market yesterday , Jaguar shares were down four pence from Monday in late trading , at 694 pence -LRB- $ 11.11 -RRB- a share . 
And financially strapped Jaguar has spent over a year looking for a rich uncle to provide cash and technological know-how . 
GM 's interest in Jaguar reflects a desire to help diversify the U.S. company 's products in the growing luxury-car segment of the market . 
An increase in production at some major oil fields in the North Sea , which had been knocked out by an explosion in July 1988 , also aided results . 
Third-quarter net income at Texaco rose to $ 305 million from $ 274 million last year . 
Revenue declined 3.4 % , to $ 8.4 billion from $ 8.7 billion . 
Sun Sun Co. 's net income climbed 18 % to $ 85 million , or 80 cents a share , from $ 72 million , or 67 cents a share . 
Sun said some of the growth reflects higher earnings in the oil sands operation of Suncor , a majority-owned Canadian subsidiary . 
Profits of Shell , a subsidiary of the Royal Dutch\/Shell Group , tumbled $ 24 million , or 6.6 % , to $ 340 million , despite a gain of $ 30 million from an insurance settlement . 
President Frank Richardson attributed the decline to lower natural gas prices , which countered higher earnings from the crude oil sector of Shell 's exploration and production operation . 
Net income at Mobil Corp. slipped 4.5 % to $ 532 million , or $ 1.30 a share , from $ 557 million , or $ 1.36 a share . 
Earnings included a one-time gain of $ 192 million on a property transaction in Hong Kong . 
Chevron 's net income fell 0.7 % , to $ 417 million , or $ 1.22 a share , from $ 420 million , or $ 1.23 a share . 
Results included a $ 37 million gain from the sale of rights from Chevron 's investment in Amax Inc. , and a loss of $ 30 million from the sale of California oil and gas properties . 
Chevron said higher crude oil prices boosted profits from production operations , but margins in refining and marketing declined . 
Refining and marketing operations earned $ 130 million in the quarter this year , compared with earnings of $ 186 million a year earlier that included $ 18 million in charges for environmental programs . 
Foreign earnings fell to $ 180 million from $ 182 million that included a $ 48 million gain from lower Canadian and Australian taxes . 
Asarco also reported third-quarter net income rose 14 % , to $ 52.7 million , or $ 1.25 a share , from a restated $ 46.2 million , or $ 1.10 a share , a year earlier . 
In August , Asarco , through its Lac d'Amiante du Quebec subsidiary , sold its remaining one-third interest in an asbestos mining limited partnership in Canada for $ 11.7 million . 
Asarco said it plans to shut down or sell its Rapatee coal mine and will end its involvement in southern Illinois strip mining . 
Walter M. Brady was named a senior vice president of this insurer in the Canadian head office . 
In the director post , Mr. Brown , 38 years old , succeeds Joseph W. Hibben , who retired from the board in August . 
C. Barr Schuler , 49 , vice president and chief financial officer , was named senior vice president of corporate development and acquisitions , a new post . 
Mr. Koenig will build the corporate-finance and investment-banking business of Gruntal , which has primarily been a retail-based firm . 
In addition , on Jan. 1 , Thomas A. Bennett , 52 , will become vice chairman and chief operating officer of Wachovia and Wachovia Bank & Trust , filling a vacancy left by the retired Hans W. Wanders in April . 
The August increase followed a 0.3 % decline in July . 
The trade surplus with Europe was pegged at $ 414 million , down 57 % from a year ago . 
Semifinished goods turned in a strong showing , with a monthly rise of 2 % and a year-on-year advance of 3 % . 
Semifinished goods turned in a strong showing , with a monthly rise of 2 % and a year-on-year advance of 3 % . Food production was ahead 1.7 % from June and 5.3 % from a year earlier . 
If further experiments are successful , the work would represent a major advance in research on acquired immune deficiency syndrome . 
Dr. Yonehara and his partner , Nobuyuki Kobayashi of Yamaguchi University , said their experiments showed that the antibody wiped out an average of 60 % of AIDS-infected cells within three days . 
The two said they must still do more laboratory tests , then experiment on animals . 
They said they hoped to conduct tests on human patients in the U.S. by late next year . 
But Takashi Kitamura , director of the biology department at Japan 's National Institute of Health and secretary of the government 's AIDS-research center , said , `` I 'm not so optimistic of its future use in therapeutic methods . '' 
But he and Dr. Yonehara said there were still several uncertainties , particularly regarding possible side effects . 
`` Our antibody specifically killed infected cells at a very low dose , but it can also kill other cells , '' said Dr. Yonehara . 
Dr. Kitamura said about 35 projects are currently under way in Japan , and that Japanese researchers in the past year have made available three possible cures to American researchers for clinical tests . 
British Airways said its shareholders accepted only 6.3 % of the convertible capital bonds , but that the rest of the issue will be taken up by underwriters . 
`` It is close to being a record undersubscription , '' said Bob Bucknell , an analyst with London broker Smith New Court Securities . 
`` Fund managers do n't like to have rights issues that do n't have an obvious reason . 
But except for the embarrassment , British Air will emerge relatively unscathed from the flopped issue . 
Underwriters led by Lazard Brothers & Co. will pick up the rest of the airline 's offer of four convertible capital bonds for every nine common shares . 
Lazard and other primary underwriters have reduced or eliminated their exposure by sub-underwriting the issue among U.K. institutional investors . 
And instead of buying the UAL stake , the U.K. carrier will be able to reduce its high debt level and build an acquisition war chest . 
`` From a cash flow point of view , British Airways is better off not being in United Airlines in the short term , '' said Andy Chambers , an analyst at Nomura Research Institute in London . 
The airline 's share price already is far below the 210 pence -LRB- $ 3.33 -RRB- level seen after the company announced the rights issue in late September . 
But British Air 's withdrawal from the UAL buy-out could have further repercussions . 
Some analysts speculated yesterday that the move has set off a board room split , which may lead to the resignation of Sir Colin Marshall , the carrier 's chief executive officer . 
`` The stories are rubbish , '' a British Air spokesman said . 
Six months ago , as some personnel specialists saw it , a perception that President Bush really cared about fair employment -- after what they said was eight years of Reagan-era neglect -- was prodding top management to raise hiring goals for females , blacks and other minorities . 
But so far , he declares , there 's little evidence the `` new urgency '' is trickling down to the managers who actually do hiring . 
And he questions the White House dedication . 
`` I do n't think the Bush administration has done anything , '' he says . 
Du Pont Co. in a couple of units has installed objective tests based on earnings or return on equity . 
At most firms , though , it 's the immediate supervisor who decides the merit increases subordinates will be paid . 
Managers have `` some very broad discretion , '' says an official at Walt Disney Co . 
Lotus Development Corp. feeds its evaluations into a computer , but only for storage ; the decisions are made by supervisors . 
Hershey Foods Corp. strives for fairness by basing increases on quarterly reviews , annual appraisals and meetings with workers . 
University of Michigan researchers find the companies earn more and win a bigger market share when their American employees get a voice in planning , product development and design , including decision-making back in Japan . 
The Japanese also are accused of keeping their cards too close to their vests . 
THE HOUSE votes down a proposal to put pension plans under the control of joint labor-management boards . 
LONG-TERM care insurance gains favor . 
OUSTED EXECUTIVES over 50 years old take slightly less time than their younger colleagues to find a job -- 3.23 months vs. 3.26 for the juniors -- outplacement firm Challenger , Gray & Christmas finds . 
FEAR OF AIDS hinders hiring at few hospitals . 
Wafaa El-Sadr , who heads the AIDS program at New York City 's Harlem Hospital Center , ca n't find help . 
`` I 've been recruiting every single day since it 's been identified that many AIDS patients come from the inner city , '' she says . 
Parkland Memorial Hospital in Dallas says it has n't had any problem recruiting , even after a nurse contracted the virus while injecting an AIDS patient . 
`` I can tell you that nobody quit over it . 
Parkland Memorial Hospital in Dallas says it has n't had any problem recruiting , even after a nurse contracted the virus while injecting an AIDS patient . `` I can tell you that nobody quit over it . No one panicked , '' a spokeswoman says . 
Parkland Memorial Hospital in Dallas says it has n't had any problem recruiting , even after a nurse contracted the virus while injecting an AIDS patient . `` I can tell you that nobody quit over it . No one panicked , '' a spokeswoman says . St. Paul Medical Center , also in Dallas , sees only a `` minimal erosion '' of support staff due to AIDS . 
THE CHECKOFF : At least somebody gains on layoffs . 
And somebody loses on the expected repeal of Section 89 , the benefits test fought by most employers . 
With many rural districts yet to report ballots , election officials estimate support for Christian Democrats fell an average five percentage points statewide . 
International investigators urged Britain to allow prosecution of suspected Nazi war criminals who took refuge there after 1945 . 
In a sign of easing tension between Beijing and Hong Kong , China said it will again take back illegal immigrants caught crossing into the British colony . 
China had refused to repatriate citizens who sneaked into Hong Kong illegally since early this month , when the colony allowed a dissident Chinese swimmer to flee to the U.S. . 
But the Japanese Fisheries Association criticized moves to ban the practice in international waters . 
Workers at Peugeot S.A. 's car plant at Sochaux , in eastern France , voted to end a six-week-old strike that has cost the Peugeot group production of 60,000 automobiles , a company spokesman said . 
The strikers voted to accept a series of management proposals that will give them a higher basic wage , better profit-sharing benefits and bigger annual bonuses . 
Striking workers , who began striking five diamond mines on Oct. 13 , had returned to work last week when the union and De Beers arranged to reopen negotiations . 
A De Beers spokesman said yesterday the company had offered to increase the minimum wage by 18 % , while the union was demanding 26.6 % . 
Japanese tourists will be told to take care when photographing earthquake damage in San Francisco , the Japan Association of Travel Agents said . 
The 1987 highway bill permitted states to raise the speed limit to 65 mph from 55 mph on interstate roads , which are defined as highways that pass through areas with fewer than 50,000 people . 
In an Oct. 10 editorial-page article , `` It 's the World Bank 's Turn to Adjust , '' Paul Craig Roberts lays most of the blame for what ails developing countries at the doorstep of the World Bank . 
One of Mr. Roberts 's observations is that the Bank 's own loan portfolio is in deep trouble because of its lending to developing countries . 
This is just not so . 
The reality is that Bank finances are rock solid . 
As of June 30 , 1989 -- the day our past fiscal year came to a close -- only 4.1 % of the Bank 's portfolio was affected by arrears of over six months . 
Moreover , the Bank follows a prudent provisioning policy and has set aside $ 800 million against possible loan losses . 
Because of the business-like manner in which the Bank goes about development , financial markets have confidence in it . 
Another of Mr. Roberts 's criticisms is that Bank lending has done more harm than good `` by implanting the wrong incentives and deflecting energy away from economic development . '' 
Here , too , Mr. Roberts is way off the mark . 
Our traditional project loans have , for instance , supported sensible energy pricing in the power sector , sound interest-rate policies in the credit area and the operation of public utilities as efficient , autonomous agencies . 
By and large , these efforts have borne fruit . 
Mr. Roberts also takes a swipe at the Bank 's adjustment lending . 
What are the facts on this type of lending ? 
The Bank has been making adjustment loans for 10 years . 
As their name implies , these operations are linked to far-reaching policy reforms that aim at helping borrowing countries get back on the growth path and at enhancing their credit-worthiness . 
Support for the private sector has been a longstanding concern of the Bank 's . 
Over the years , it has helped encourage investments by entrepreneurs in the Third World through its extensive credit operations and through loans and investments by the International Finance Corp . 
Conasupo Director Ignacio Ovalle Fernandez said the agency will sell 589 midsized supermarkets and several food-production plants and warehouses beginning early next year . 
Conasupo controls prices on agricultural goods and operates retail outlets where basic consumer items are sold at state-subsidized prices . 
`` The agency has concluded that contamination may be widespread throughout the mushroom-processing industry in China , '' an FDA spokesman said yesterday . 
On May 19 , the FDA began detaining Chinese mushrooms in 68-ounce cans after more than 100 people in Mississippi , New York and Pennsylvania became ill from eating tainted mushrooms . 
The outbreaks were traced to staphylococcus aureus , a type of bacteria that produces a toxin capable of surviving the high temperatures used in canning vegetables . 
In 1987 , China exported 65 million pounds of mushrooms , valued at $ 47 million , to the U.S. . 
A spokesman for the Chinese Embassy here said that the Beijing government has taken `` many effective measures '' to stop the mushroom contamination and is further investigating the underlying causes . 
Your Sept. 26 `` Politics & Policy '' article about William Bennett 's Emergency Drug Plan for Washington gives the impression that the FBI has not been nor is actively involved . 
The FBI is very supportive of and an active participant in Mr. Bennett 's initiative . 
It was agreed at the outset of the Washington Drug Initiative that the FBI 's role would be to continue targeting the major drug traffickers through our National Drug Strategy . 
Through these investigations we do not focus on the street drug user , but rather we target and attack major drug-trafficking organizations that control a large segment of the drug market . 
Under the new terms , New World will still pay $ 540 million for Ramada 's hotel business , subject to adjustment at closing , but Ramada will now reimburse New World for $ 10 million in expenses . 
The cash payout will be reduced by 40 % of any amount by which the weighted mean price of Ramada 's common stock exceeds $ 14 on the day the transaction closes . 
Ramada 's stock rose 87.5 cents on the news to close at $ 11.25 in composite New York Stock Exchange trading . 
One major advantage of the revised plan is that Aztar will have far less debt than under the old terms . 
But long-term Treasury bonds staged a modest rally , with prices on most issues rising about half a point , or $ 5 for each $ 1,000 face amount . 
Traders and analysts said the divergence between the stock and bond markets is a sign of growing unease about the economic outlook . 
That unease is expected to grow today when the government reports on September durable goods orders and again Thursday when the first assessment of third-quarter economic growth is released . 
`` We think we 're on target in looking for renewed economic deterioration , '' he said . 
In major market activity : Stock prices slumped in sluggish trading . 
Volume on the New York Stock Exchange totaled 135.9 million shares . 
Bond prices rallied . 
The dollar weakened against most other major currencies . 
The poll conducted by Peter D. Hart Research Associates interviewed 2,064 adults age 18 and older from June 15 to June 30 , 1989 . 
For each poll , the odds are 19 out of 20 that if pollsters had sought to survey every household in the U.S. using the same questionnaire , the findings would differ from these poll results by no more than 2 1\/2 percentage points in either direction . 
Even if Mr. Crandall is correct , he of all people must realize our society relies on competition to keep prices at a competitive level . 
When I asked American Airlines for its side of the story for use in my MBA class , where I teach business ethics , it did not respond . 
Earlier this year , Meredith sold its first such package for $ 3 million to Kraft Inc. , now a unit of New York-based Philip Morris Cos . 
Bill Murphy , director of the new marketing unit , said Meredith is negotiating other large-scale packages with leading companies in several product categories , but he would n't disclose their names . 
Other magazine publishing companies have been moving in the same direction . 
The New York Times Co. 's Magazine Group earlier this year began offering advertisers extensive merchandising services built around buying ad pages in its Golf Digest magazine . 
Paul DuCharme , director of media services at Grey Advertising , said Meredith is the leader in providing multimedia packages . 
`` But the marketplace changed . 
Advertisers now say ` Help us improve our image and extend our selling season . ' 
And most of these are absolutely unnecessary . 
Your article points out the traps people fall into , but when reviewing those traps one sees just about all of them could have been avoided . 
An accountant did not review the seller 's books before buying a business . 
`` I guess I was naive , '' he said . 
Corporate managers who want to start their own business are the highest failure risks . 
They know all the answers and are not used to working more than 40 hours a week . 
The blue-collar worker who decides to start a business will listen and take advice . 
A few months ago your paper reported the results of a study to determine why Asians who arrive in this country without any money , and unable to speak English , become overnight successes . 
Their `` secret '' is that they gather a small group of advisers around them , listen to what they have to say , prepare a business plan and they are on their way . 
Successful American business owners do the same thing . 
Avoiding failure is easy . 
`` I think it 's more an issue of style . 
I would view it as a net positive . 
The company can go about its business . 
A spokesman said that neither Mr. Fireman nor Mr. LaBonte would be available for comment . 
For example , Toronto-based Telemedia Inc. will publish Eating Well , a new food and health magazine due out next summer . 
`` This is an impressive show of faith in the future of the magazine industry , '' said Mr. Kummerfeld . 
And despite the recent tough advertising climate , industry figures released at the meeting here indicate things may be turning around . 
For the first nine months , advertising pages in consumer magazines tracked by the Publishers Information Bureau increased 4 % from the same period last year , to 125,849 pages . 
Total magazine ad revenue for the same period increased 12 % to $ 4.6 billion . 
Though some magazines are thriving , the magazine publishing industry remains a risky business . 
Within the same nine months , News Corp. closed down In Fashion , a once-promising young woman 's fashion magazine , Drake Publications Inc. has folded the long-troubled Venture magazine , and Lang Communications has announced Ms. magazine , after 17 years , will no longer carry advertising as of January . 
Meanwhile , American Health Partners , publisher of American Health magazine , is deep in debt , and Owen Lipstein , founder and managing partner , is being forced to sell the magazine to Reader 's Digest Association Inc . 
Mr. Lipstein 's absence from the meeting here raised speculation that the sale is in trouble . 
Mr. Lipstein said in a telephone interview from New York that the sale was proceeding as planned . 
`` The magazine is strong . 
`` Magazines can no longer be considered institutions , '' said James Autry , president of Meredith Corp. 's magazine group . 
`` Publishers will find that some magazines have served their purpose and should die , '' he added . 
There are also indications that the number of magazine entrepreneurs , traditionally depended upon to break new ground with potentially risky start-ups , are dwindling . 
Some entrepreneurs are still active , though . 
Gerry Ritterman , president of New York-based Network Publishing Corp. , earlier this year sold his Soap Opera Digest magazine to Rupert Murdoch 's News Corp . 
Mr. Ritterman said that in the next six months he will take $ 50 million from the Soap Opera Digest sale to acquire new magazines . 
`` The magazines I am looking for are underdeveloped , '' said Mr. Ritterman . 
`` They could be old or new , but they are magazines whose editorial quality needs to be improved . 
Arthur Burns , Federal Reserve Board chairman , said the government 's `` luck '' in keeping the bank open -- despite being the then-biggest U.S. bank failure -- prevented `` shock waves around the country and around the world . '' 
The crisis had peaked on May 10 , 1974 , when the bank disclosed `` severe '' foreign-exchange losses due to `` unauthorized '' trading . 
Within six years many figures were convicted for their illegal abuse of Franklin funds . 
In June 1980 , Michele Sindona -- an Italian financier who in July 1972 had bought a 22 % block of Franklin 's stock from Loews Corp. , headed by Laurence A. Tisch -- was sentenced to 25 years in prison after being convicted of fraud and perjury . 
A squiggly line snakes across a video screen , gyrating erratically as subjects with hand-held computers register their second-by-second reactions to a speaker 's remarks . 
Agreement , disapproval , boredom and distraction all can be inferred from the subjects ' twist of a dial . 
Donald Vinson , who oversees the experiments , is n't some white-coated researcher . 
He heads Litigation Sciences Inc. , the nation 's largest legal consulting firm , which is helping corporate America prepare for high-stakes litigation by predicting and shaping jurors ' reactions . 
Little known outside the legal world but a powerhouse within , Litigation Sciences , a unit of Saatchi & Saatchi PLC , employs more than 100 psychologists , sociologists , marketers , graphic artists and technicians . 
Recently , Litigation Sciences helped Pennzoil Co. win a $ 10.5 billion jury verdict against Texaco Inc . 
Largely as a result , Litigation Sciences has more than doubled in size in the past two years . 
Meanwhile , competitors are being spawned almost daily ; some 300 new businesses -- many just one-person shops -- have sprung up . 
Mr. Vinson estimates the industry 's total revenues approach $ 200 million . 
Despite their ubiquity , the consultants are n't entirely welcome . 
Some lawyers and scholars see the social scientists ' vision of the American jury system as a far cry from the ideal presented in civics texts and memorialized on the movie screen . 
In the film classic `` Twelve Angry Men , '' the crucible of deliberations unmasks each juror 's bias and purges it from playing a role in the verdict . 
After hours of conflict and debate , that jury focuses on the facts with near-perfect objectivity . 
Litigation consulting is , as New York trial attorney Donald Zoeller puts it , `` highly manipulative . '' 
But the effort is also being made to try and cause jurors not to decide things rationally . 
But Mr. Zoeller also acknowledges that consultants can be very effective . 
Others complain that the consultants ' growing influence exacerbates the advantage of litigants wealthy enough to afford such pricey services . 
Sophisticated trial consulting grew , ironically , from the radical political movements of the 1960s and 1970s before finding its more lucrative calling in big commercial cases . 
In that case , a group of left-leaning sociologists interviewed 252 registered voters around Harrisburg . 
The defense also learned that college-educated people were uncharacteristically conservative about the Vietnam War . 
Ultimately , that carefully picked jury deadlocked with a 10-2 vote to acquit , and the prosecution decided not to retry the case . 
The fledgling science went corporate in 1977 when International Business Machines Corp. hired a marketing professor to help defend a complex antitrust case . 
The problem for IBM trial lawyers Thomas Barr and David Boies was how to make such a highly technical case understandable . 
Thus , the `` shadow '' jury was born . 
Mr. Vinson , the professor , got the law bug and formed Litigation Sciences . 
`` The hardest thing in any complex case is to retain objectivity and , in some sense , your ignorance , '' says Mr. Boies of Cravath , Swaine & Moore . 
`` What you look for in a shadow jury is very much what you do when you give an opening argument to your wife or a friend and get some response to it . 
Energy Transportation retained Litigation Sciences , at a cost of several hundred thousand dollars , to poll , pre-try , profile and shadow . 
Just before the actual closing arguments , the firm put the case to a vote of the five shadow jurors , each of whom was being paid $ 150 a day . 
The jurors , who did n't know which side had retained them , decided for Energy Transportation , and awarded $ 500 million in damages . 
`` It 's just like weather forecasting , '' says Energy Transportation trial attorney Harry Reasoner of Vinson & Elkins . 
Forecasting is only one part of Litigation Sciences ' work . 
If it is a case in which the client seeks punitive damages , for example , depressed , underemployed people are far more likely to grant them . 
Someone with a master 's degree in classical arts who works in a deli would be ideal , Litigation Sciences advises . 
So would someone recently divorced or widowed . 
For personal-injury cases , Litigation Sciences seeks defense jurors who believe that most people , including victims , get what they deserve . 
Litigation Sciences does n't make moral distinctions . 
If a client needs prejudiced jurors , the firm will help find them . 
As Mr. Vinson explains it , `` We do n't control the facts . 
But any lawyer will select the facts and the strategy to employ . 
Once a jury is selected , the consultants often continue to determine what the jurors ' attitudes are likely to be and help shape the lawyers ' presentation accordingly . 
Logic plays a minimal role here . 
In one personal-injury case , a woman claimed she had been injured when she slipped in a pool , but the fall did n't explain why one of her arms was discolored bluish . 
By repeatedly drawing the jury 's attention to the arm , the defense lawyers planted doubt about the origin of the woman 's injuries . 
The ploy worked . 
In a classic defense of a personal-injury case , the consultants concentrate on encouraging the jury to shift the blame . 
Slick graphics , pre-tested for effectiveness , also play a major role in Litigation Sciences ' operation . 
Studies show , the consultants say , that people absorb information better and remember it longer if they receive it visually . 
Computer-generated videos help . 
`` The average American watches seven hours of TV a day . 
Lawyers remain divided about whether anything is wrong with all this . 
Supporters acknowledge that the process aims to manipulate , but they insist that the best trial lawyers have always employed similar tactics . 
`` They may not have been able to articulate it all , but they did it , '' says Stephen Gillers , a legal ethics expert at New York University law school . 
Many lawyers maintain that all 's fair in the adversary system as long as no one tampers with the evidence . 
Litigation consulting is n't a guarantee of a favorable outcome . 
Litigation Sciences concedes that in one in 20 cases it was flatout wrong in its predictions . 
Some litigators scoff at the notion that a sociologist knows more than they do about what makes a jury tick . 
For more than a decade , Mr. Etzioni , the sociologist , has been a leading critic of the masseurs . 
`` But the last thing you want to do is manipulate the subconscious to make them think better . 
In most civil cases , judges allow each side three such challenges . 
Mr. Etzioni also suggests forbidding anyone from gathering background information about the jurors . 
Even some lawyers who have used consultants to their advantage see a need to limit their impact . 
Mr. Boies , the first lawyer to use Mr. Vinson 's services , cautions against courts ' allowing extensive jury questioning -LRB- known as voir dire -RRB- or giving out personal information about the jurors . 
One award is part of a Department of Defense contract to Loral Rolm Mil-Spec Computers and could be valued at more than $ 100 million over five years . 
`` The company 's on a roll , '' said Robert Herwick , an analyst at Hambrecht & Quist . 
Silicon Graphics , on the other hand , has targeted a specific niche since its inception in 1982 , which has been dubbed by some as `` motion-picture computing . '' 
In addition , the company has made it tough on competitors by offering a stream of desktop computers at sharply lower prices . 
Silicon Graphics also plans to unveil even less expensive machines in the near future . 
Silicon Graphics ' strategy seems to be paying off . 
Revenue for its first quarter ended Sept. 30 was $ 86.4 million , a 95 % increase over the year-ago period . 
They , or at least something less efficient than today 's thin-walled units , may soon be making a comeback . 
These and other expensive changes in products ranging from auto air conditioners to foam cushioning to commercial solvents are in prospect because of something called the Montreal Protocol , signed by 24 nations in 1987 . 
In one of the most sweeping environmental regulatory efforts to date -- involving products with an annual value of $ 135 billion in the U.S. alone -- the signatories agreed to curtail sharply the use of chlorofluorocarbons -LRB- CFCs -RRB- . 
The U.S. Senate liked the treaty so well it ratified it by a vote of 89 to 0 . 
That 's a lot of banishment , as it turns out . 
CFCs are the primary ingredient in a gas , often referred to by the Du Pont trade name Freon , which is compressed to liquid form to serve as the cooling agent in refrigeration and air-conditioning equipment . 
Gases containing CFCs are pumped into polyurethane to make the foam used in pillows , upholstery and insulation . 
But even though by some estimates it might cost the world as much as $ 100 billion between now and the year 2000 to convert to other coolants , foaming agents and solvents and to redesign equipment for these less efficient substitutes , the Montreal Protocol 's legions of supporters say it is worth it . 
`` I would be the first to admit that there is not a complete consensus in the scientific community on either one of these problems , '' says Mr. Teagan . 
But the nature of the problem is such that many others feel it has to be addressed soon , before all the evidence is in . 
But does it have to be so soon ? 
Some atmospheric scientists think that even if CFCs were released into the atmosphere at an accelerating rate , the amount of ozone depletion would be only 10 % by the middle of the next century . 
But ozone creation is a very large-scale natural process and the importance of human-generated CFCs in reducing it is largely a matter of conjecture . 
The ozone layer is constantly in motion and thus very hard to measure . 
Another argument of the environmentalists is that if substitutes are available , why not use them ? 
Moreover , new lubricants will be needed to protect compressors from the new formulations , which , as with CFCs , are solvents . 
As it happens , Arthur D. Little is not at all interested in throwing cold water on ozone depletion and global warming theories . 
It is interested in making some money advising industry on how to convert to a world without CFCs . 
Maybe we should ask why it was that Du Pont so quickly capitulated and issued a statement , giving it wide publicity , that it was withdrawing CFCs . 
One answer is that big companies are growing weary of fighting environmental movements and are trying instead to cash in on them , although they never care to put it quite that way . 
Imperial Chemical Industries of the U.K. also has one , and is building a plant in Louisiana to produce it . 
There are still others who do n't mind seeing new crises arise . 
Environmental groups would soon go out of business were they not able to send out mailings describing the latest threat and asking for money to fight it . 
University professors and consultants with scientific credentials saw a huge market for their services evaporate when price decontrol destroyed the energy crisis and thus the demand for `` alternative energy . '' 
In other words , environmentalism has created a whole set of vested interests that fare better when there are many problems than when there are few . 
That tends to tilt the public debate toward `` solutions '' even when some of the most knowledgeable scientists are skeptical about the seriousness of the threats and the insistence of urgency . 
With most legislatures adjourned for the year , small business is tallying its scorecard . 
Much of its attention was spent fighting organized labor 's initiatives on issues the small-business community traditionally opposes -- from raising state minimum wage levels to mandating benefits in health plans . 
Five states -- Oregon , Rhode Island , New Hampshire , Iowa and Wisconsin -- passed bills to boost the minimum wage , but measures in 19 other states were defeated . 
Oregon 's rate will rise to $ 4.75 an hour , the nation 's highest , in Jan. 1 , 1991 . 
In 17 central states , one small-business count shows lawmakers adopted only three of 46 bills mandating health coverage or parental leave . 
Only two states -- Vermont and Washington -- this year joined five others requiring private employers to grant leaves of absence to employees with newborn or adopted infants . 
But small business , which generally detests government-mandated benefits , has taken note of the growing number of close votes . 
Consequently , small business is taking more `` pro-active '' steps to counter mandated leaves . 
Triggering the re-examination is a recent city council decision to give preference in letting city contracts to suppliers with a stated policy on child care for their employees . 
The preferential treatment even applies to awarding small contracts under $ 25,000 and consulting and temporary services -- which often go to the smaller concerns . 
NOVEMBER BALLOTS will contain few referendum or initiative issues that especially affect small business . 
Small businesses in suburban Chicago are discovering that an area-code switch Nov. 11 -- to 708 from the familiar 312 -- wo n't be without some costs as they alter stationery , among other things , and notify customers . 
But many owners plan to practice frugality -- crossing out the old code and writing in the new one until their stock runs out . 
Even print-shop operator Clay Smith of Naperville wo n't discard his old supply . 
Previously , regulators insisted that franchisers pre-register such changes with the state -- a costly process taking at least six weeks . 
For instance , franchisers no longer must pre-register sales to aspiring franchisees who qualify as `` sophisticated purchasers . '' 
But critics consider the changes regressive . 
Lewis G. Rudnick , a Chicago lawyer who represents franchisers , contends California is narrowly limiting -- rather than expanding -- opportunities for negotiating sales . 
City officials feared widespread gridlock on the first day that normal business operations were resumed following last Tuesday 's earthquake . 
But in spite of a wind-driven rainstorm , gridlock never materialized , mainly because the Bay Area Rapid Transit subway system carried 50 % more passengers than normal . 
Many commuters who normally drove across the Bay Bridge , which is shut down for several weeks because of damage to one span , actually may have reached work a bit faster on BART yesterday , provided they could find a parking space at the system 's jammed stations . 
Not that getting into town was easy . 
Storm flooding caused back-ups on the freeway , and many commuters had to find rides to BART 's stations , because parking lots were full before dawn . 
Her commute from Petaluma , Calif. , normally takes an hour and 15 minutes , via the Golden Gate Bridge , which connects San Francisco with the North Bay area . 
But while traffic was heavy early in the commute over the Golden Gate , by 8 a.m. it already had thinned out . 
`` It 's one of the smoothest commutes I 've ever had , '' said Charles Catania , an insurance broker on the bus from Mill Valley in Marin County . 
`` It looks like a holiday . 
At the San Mateo Bridge , which connects the San Francisco peninsula with the East Bay , police were surprised at the speed with which traffic moved . 
There were many indications that the new work hours implemented by major corporations played a big role . 
Pacific Gas & Electric Co. is offering its 6,000 San Francisco employees a two-tier flextime schedule -- either 6 a.m. to 2 p.m. or 10 a.m. to 6 p.m . 
The flextime may cut by almost a third the number of PG&E employees working conventional 9-5 hours , a spokesman says . 
Some individuals went to some lengths on their own to avoid the anticipated gridlock . 
But transportation officials worry that such extraordinary measures and cooperation may not last . 
Well , mankind can rest easier for now . 
And when Mr. Kasparov strode into the playing hall , he called the outcome . 
His strategy against D.T. was based on a thorough study of dozens of its games , he said , including its notorious whippings of the grandmasters Bent Larsen of Denmark and Robert Byrne of the U.S. . 
Mr. Kasparov was underwhelmed . 
The champion apparently was not worried at all about D.T. 's strong points . 
But the handlers mistakenly stuck with silicon chips ; they needed kryptonite . 
This became apparent as game one , a Sicilian Defense by Mr. Kasparov , proceeded . 
But the computer did n't play Mr. Short 's ninth move , a key pawn thrust , and its position deteriorated rapidly . 
Instead of castling , a standard measure to safeguard the king , D.T. made a second-rate rook maneuver at move 13 ; then it put a knight offside on move 16 . 
By move 21 , D.T. had fallen into a deep positional trap . 
It allowed Mr. Kasparov to exchange his dark-squared bishop for one of D.T. 's knights . By move 21 , D.T. had fallen into a deep positional trap . 
Consistently , D.T. was over-optimistic about its chances , which it continually sized up , in numerical form . 
He also launched a kingside storm , sacrificing a pawn to denude D.T. 's king . 
No amount of weasling could have saved this game for D.T . 
As early as move six , Mr. Kasparov deviated from a well-known sequence of moves , developing a knight instead of making a standard bishop attack against the computer 's advanced knight . 
`` In a new position just after the opening , a computer will have serious problems , '' Mr. Kasparov said later . 
After only 11 moves for each side , the computer 's position was shaky . 
And when a defensive move was called for , D.T. passed up an obvious pawn move and instead exposed its queen to immediate tactical threats . 
Now , after only a dozen moves , spectators were looking for a mating combination . 
Mr. Kasparov 's continuation was slower but , in the end , just as deadly . 
`` In both games I got exactly what I wanted , '' he said . 
`` It was a time when interest rates came down very rapidly , '' Dr. Blumenfeld recalls . 
Yields on five-year CDs at major banks were averaging about 7.45 % , and 10-year Treasury notes were paying less than 8 % . 
More important , the CD was purchased on the secondary , or resale , market . 
Now the thrift that issued the CD is insolvent , and Dr. Blumenfeld has learned to his surprise that the premium is n't insured under federal deposit insurance . 
Several phone calls and a visit to his broker 's office later , the dentist found out that the $ 9,000 drop represented the current value of the premium he paid when he bought the CD , and that the amount was n't insured . 
`` This is one thing I was never aware of , '' he says . 
Dr. Blumenfeld is n't unique . 
`` Yield greed often gets in the way of understanding things , '' says John Markese , research director of the American Association of Individual Investors , a Chicago-based educational group . 
Dr. Blumenfeld concedes he did n't fully understand what he was buying . 
The broker , Thomas Beairsto of Merrill Lynch 's Morristown , N.J. , office , refuses to discuss the matter with a reporter , referring inquiries to Merrill Lynch officials in New York . 
The fact sheet , dated April 1986 , says on page three : `` If the price paid for a CD purchased in the secondary market ... is higher than the accreted value in the case of zero-coupon CDs , the difference ... is not insured ... . 
Dr. Blumenfeld says he does n't remember the paragraph about premiums in the fact sheet he received and did n't realize part of what he paid was a premium . 
`` It 's not a blanket commitment , it 's a case-by-case situation , '' says Albert Disposti , a managing director of Merrill Lynch Money Markets Inc . 
`` There 's a question whether brokers at the time were fully aware '' of the risks . 
Merrill Lynch says it 's impossible to estimate how many investors are in Dr. Blumenfeld 's situation , although it says the firm has received only one other complaint about premiums on the secondary market in three years . 
Zero-coupon CDs are only a small portion of the $ 1 trillion-plus in CDs outstanding , and those purchased on the secondary market are an even smaller part of the total . 
And he says he 's learned a lesson : `` You always have to watch out for yourself . 
`` Spirits companies now view themselves as global marketers , '' says Michael Bellas , president of Beverage Marketing Corp. , a research and consulting firm . 
`` If you want to be a player , you have to be in America , Europe and the Far East . 
But the shift has also been fueled by necessity . 
In recent years , growth has come in the foreign markets . 
U.S. brandy exports more than doubled last year to 360,000 proof gallons , a standard industry measure , according to Jobson Beverage Alcohol Group , an industry association . 
Japan , the world 's third-largest liquor market after the U.S. and Britain , helped American companies in April when it lowered its tax on imported spirits and levied a tax on many domestic products . 
California wineries , benefiting from lowered trade barriers and federal marketing subsidies , are expanding aggressively into Japan , as well as Canada and Great Britain . 
In Australia , Britain , Canada and Greece , Brown-Forman Corp. has increased its marketing of Southern Comfort Liqueur . 
The biggest foreign inroads , though , have been made by bourbon . 
While U.S. makers of vodka , rum and other spirits compete against powerhouses abroad , trade agreements prohibit any other country from making bourbon . 
Moreover , just as vodka has acquired an upscale image in the U.S. , bourbon has become fashionable in many foreign countries , a uniquely American product tied to frontier folklore . 
How was the West won ? 
Bourbon makes up just 1 % of world-wide spirits consumption , but it represented 57 % of U.S. liquor exports last year , according to Jobson ; no other category had more than 19 % . 
Guinness 's Schenley Industries unit has increased its TV advertising in Japan and has built partnerships with duty-free shops throughout Asia , enabling it to install prominent counter displays . 
Bourbon exporters have succeeded in Japan where other industries have failed , avoiding cultural hitches in marketing and distribution by allying themselves with local agents . 
Jim Beam Brands has a distribution partnership with Nikka Whiskey Co. , a distiller . 
Some bourbon makers advertise abroad as they do at home . 
Jim Beam print ads , however , strike different chords in different countries . 
In Australia , land of the outback , a snapshot of Jim Beam lies on a strip of hand-tooled leather . 
West Germans get glitz , with bourbon in the foreground and a posh Beverly Hills hotel in the background . 
Ads for England are artsy and irreverent . 
The broadcast and publishing company reported net climbed to $ 80.8 million , or $ 4.56 a share , from $ 62.6 million , or $ 3.55 a share , in the year-earlier period . 
The broadcasting unit reported operating profit of $ 134.9 million , up 18 % from the year-earlier $ 114.3 million . 
Revenue at the broadcasting unit , consisting of the network and stations , advanced 11 % , to $ 838 million from $ 752.9 million . 
For 1989 's first nine months , Capital Cities net income grew 23 % to $ 303.7 million , or $ 16.97 a share , from $ 246.9 million , or $ 14.43 a share . 
Last week , ABC unseated General Electric Co. 's National Broadcasting Co. unit as the No. 1 network , as rated by A.C. Nielsen Co . 
As part of a previously announced transaction , Federal Mogul Corp. has bought approximately 565,000 shares of its common stock from Nortek Inc. at $ 23.50 a share . 
The company said the plant will ensure that it has adequate energy for the mill and will reduce the mill 's energy costs . 
Bush administration officials say inflation is under control . 
The world 's largest fast-food chain said net income rose to $ 217.9 million , or 59 cents a share , from $ 191.3 million , or 51 cents a share , a year ago . 
Revenue rose 12 % to $ 1.63 billion from $ 1.46 billion . 
But sales for U.S. franchisees were flat at best on a per-store basis despite weak 1988 figures . 
Compared with the first nine months of last year , average franchisee store sales this year were down nearly $ 3,200 , reflecting a fierce discounting war among fast-food chains . 
While franchisees were having a tough time holding sales , McDonald 's company-operated stores posted hefty gains for the nine months , with sales per company-operated unit rising $ 20,000 . 
Profit margins at U.S. company-owned stores in the quarter were up nearly 1 % , which the company attributed in part to lower food costs . 
Prudential-Bache Securities analyst Leslie Steppel said reduced labor costs helped boost margins , although she doubted `` that kind of performance is sustainable . '' 
Overseas , both franchisees and the company performed substantially better than a year ago . 
Third-quarter sales in Europe were exceptionally strong , boosted by promotional programs and new products -- although weaker foreign currencies reduced the company 's earnings . 
In the nine months , earnings rose 12 % to $ 555.6 million , or $ 1.49 a share , from $ 494.4 million , or $ 1.31 a share , a year earlier . 
The Miami-based company 's stock fell $ 1.75 yesterday to $ 20.75 a share in heavy American Stock Exchange composite trading . 
`` There is just a tremendous amount of uncertainty about what the effect , if any , of all this is , '' said John P. Uphoff , an analyst at Raymond James Associates Inc . 
That ship , which would carry about 2,050 passengers , would expand the capacity of Carnival 's existing 14-ship fleet by 24 % . 
`` There 's a 99 % chance that the Fantasy will be delivered close to schedule , '' said Caroline Levy , an analyst at Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc . 
`` The others will probably be delivered as well , but Carnival will likely have to pay a higher price for them . '' 
If the ships are n't delivered , however , it will likely have an effect on the company 's earnings as soon as the 1990 fiscal year , which begins Dec. 1 . 
Analysts said those estimates -- which range from about $ 1.80 a share to $ 1.95 a share -- are based on Fantasy being in operation in 1990 . 
Carnival , for example , has already paid about $ 160 million of the total cost for Fantasy . 
According to reports from Finland , Waertsilae Marine , 19%-owned by conglomerate Oy Waertsilae , filed for bankruptcy yesterday after the shipyard 's contractors had started to demand bank guarantees . 
Jerell paid Ms. Garratt royalties for the line known as Multiples by Sandra Garratt , which are sold primarily through department stores . 
Sales of medium and heavy-duty trucks continue to lag previous-year rates , leading Eaton to expect fourth-quarter net income to fall below year-earlier levels , said Stephen R. Hardis , vice chairman and chief financial and administrative officer . 
Third-quarter net was $ 40 million , or $ 1.04 a share , from $ 54.4 million , or $ 1.47 a share , a year ago . 
The quarter net was below analyst expectations mainly because truck-parts sales did n't rebound in September from the summer doldrums as they usually do , said Patrick E. Sheridan , analyst with McDonald & Co . 
Eli Lustgarten of PaineWebber Inc. , who a couple of weeks ago reduced his 1989 estimate to $ 5.70 a share because of the weakening truck market , says he will make another cut to about $ 5.50 a share in light of the third-quarter report . 
Eaton said sales of truck axles , transmissions and other parts fell 7.2 % to $ 295 million . 
Mr. Hardis said truck-fleet operators appear to be cautious about buying new trucks until they see how the economy behaves . 
Operating profit from electrical and electronics controls , Eaton 's other major business group , fell 11 % to $ 32 million , despite a 7.7 % increase in sales to $ 376 million . 
For the nine months , net -- including profit from discontinued operations both years and in 1988 an extraordinary charge of $ 17.7 million related to settlement of a lawsuit -- was $ 170.6 million , or $ 4.54 a share , up 5.8 % from $ 161.3 million , or $ 4.32 a share , a year ago . 
The conference was entitled `` Economic Mechanisms for Environmental Protection , '' a significant departure from East Bloc usage , which recognizes only one economic mechanism -- central planning -- to direct industrial behavior . 
Why did East Bloc participants unanimously endorse market-based pollution approaches ? 
According to a detailed report by Zbigniew Bochniarz of the University of Minnesota 's Hubert Humphrey Institute , 27 areas containing a third of Poland 's population are regarded as `` ecological hazards '' due to multiple violations of standards . 
According to a detailed report by Zbigniew Bochniarz of the University of Minnesota 's Hubert Humphrey Institute , 27 areas containing a third of Poland 's population are regarded as `` ecological hazards '' due to multiple violations of standards . Norms are consistently exceeded at 60 % of nitrogen oxide monitoring sites and 80 % of those for dust and soot emissions . 
According to a detailed report by Zbigniew Bochniarz of the University of Minnesota 's Hubert Humphrey Institute , 27 areas containing a third of Poland 's population are regarded as `` ecological hazards '' due to multiple violations of standards . Norms are consistently exceeded at 60 % of nitrogen oxide monitoring sites and 80 % of those for dust and soot emissions . Four-fifths of Poland 's soils have become highly acidified ; 70 % of its southern forests are projected to die by century 's end . 
Poland produces about 20 times more soot and five times more sulfur dioxide and solid waste per unit of gross national product than does Western Europe . 
Poland produces about 20 times more soot and five times more sulfur dioxide and solid waste per unit of gross national product than does Western Europe . Its mortality rate for males over 35 is about 50 % higher than West Germany 's , and 50 % higher in hazard areas than the national average . 
Conference participants saw these effects as flowing directly from -LRB- a -RRB- Marxist devaluation of environmental resources , which are not produced by labor ; -LRB- b -RRB- planned economies ' inability to control pollution where enterprises are state-owned and penalties are paid by the government ; and -LRB- c -RRB- the continuing Stalinist emphasis on heavy industry for economic development , producing a far heavier and more wasteful use of energy and natural resources than in the West . 
Indeed , skepticism was amply captured by a joke told by Poles at the conference : `` The world must be coming to an end . 
The Russians are talking peace . 
But the implications of such a shift to market approaches go well beyond the fact that Poland is already working on nationwide emissions trades to reduce smelter pollution , or that the Soviets plan to introduce marketable pollution permits in some republics next year . 
Faced with a $ 40 billion foreign debt and skyrocketing inflation , Poland must privatize industry and eliminate subsidies to stabilize its currency and qualify for international assistance . 
As conferees noted , scarce capital means the costs of control must be minimized through a broad menu of compliance choices for individual firms . 
It also means use of quantity-based pollution limits such as transferable permits , rather than price-based limits such as effluent fees . 
Even least-cost environmental solutions will require billions of dollars . 
East Bloc pollution data typically have been state secrets . 
One participant prematurely declared that America has had a free market in goods but a planned economy for environmental protection , while Poland represents the opposite . 
The drop in those and other technology stocks contributed to an 0.7 % slide by the Nasdaq composite index . 
Mostly because of the sell-off in technology stocks , the Nasdaq 100 Index of the OTC 's largest non-financial issues dropped 4.58 to 457.52 . 
`` It 's a quiet retreat , '' said Mr. Howley . 
`` It 's nothing dramatic , just a routine sell-off . '' 
Yesterday 's volume of 117.2 million shares was far below last week 's sizzling average of nearly 177 million . 
Apple Computer , which reported lackluster earnings Friday , lost 1 1\/4 to 46 3\/4 on 1.1 million shares . 
Investors apparently did n't like the news from Rainbow Technologies either . 
It said net income was 17 cents a share in the third quarter , compared with 16 cents a share a year earlier . 
Other technology stocks that were weaker included Intel , which fell 1 1\/4 to 33 1\/2 on 1.9 million shares , Mentor Graphics , down 3\/4 to 16 1\/4 on 1.6 million shares , Sun Microsystems , which slipped 3\/8 to 18 1\/4 , and MCI Communications , down 1 to 42 3\/4 . 
Microsoft , which last week rose to a record , fell victim to profit-taking , traders said , as it declined 2 1\/8 to 83 1\/8 . 
Among takeover stocks , Jefferson Smurfit jumped 1 1\/4 to 42 1\/2 after SIBV-MS Holdings said the price to be paid to Jefferson Smurfit 's minority holders has been raised to $ 43 a share . 
Another takeover target , LIN Broadcasting , eased 1\/2 to 110 1\/8 on 313,800 shares . 
Some analysts say investors will begin paying more attention to earnings , partly in response to the latest round of disappointments . 
They say investors will favor companies that historically have posted annual earnings growth of 15 % to 20 % . 
Michael R. Weisberg , partner in charge of research at Robertson Stephens & Co. in San Francisco , said some investors have already made the switch . 
The Robertson Stephens Index of 340 emerging growth stocks is up 23.1 % for the year through Friday . 
`` It 's been a spectacular year for the emerging growth stock investor , '' Mr. Weisberg said . 
He predicted that the most popular growth companies will be those with `` some kind of unique product or franchise '' that makes them appear able to sustain their momentum . 
Nellcor , a maker of electronic patient monitoring systems , was up 3\/4 to 16 7\/8 on 258,000 shares yesterday , while retailing issue Office Club was unchanged at 10 3\/4 on 65,200 shares . 
Other favorites of growth-stock analysts and money managers also had a mixed session . 
But Legent , a systems software stock , was down 1\/2 to 29 3\/4 on 39,300 shares . 
Higher earnings helped some issues . 
Why ca n't we teach our children to read , write and reckon ? 
It 's not that we do n't know how to , because we do . 
And the reason we do n't want to is that effective education would require us to relinquish some cherished metaphysical beliefs about human nature in general and the human nature of young people in particular , as well as to violate some cherished vested interests . 
But what do we mean , specifically , by `` creativity '' ? 
No one can say . 
In practice , it ends up being equated with a `` self-expression '' that encourages the youngsters ' `` self-esteem . '' 
The whole notion of `` creativity '' in education was -LRB- and is -RRB- part and parcel of a romantic rebellion against disciplined instruction , which was -LRB- and is -RRB- regarded as `` authoritarian , '' a repression and frustration of the latent talents and the wonderful , if as yet undefined , potentialities inherent in the souls of all our children . 
Fortunately , these same parents do want their children to get a decent education as traditionally understood , and they have enough common sense to know what that demands . 
The reasons are complex , but one simple reason ought not to be underestimated . 
It also provides teachers with a superior self-definition as a `` profession , '' since they will have passed courses in educational psychology and educational philosophy . 
I myself took such courses in college , thinking I might end up a schoolteacher . 
But it is unfair to dump on teachers , as distinct from the educational establishment . 
I know many schoolteachers and , on the whole , they are seriously committed to conscientious teaching . 
But they need not be to do their jobs well . 
But our education proceeded at the hands of those others , who were merely competent and conscientious . 
In this sense , a teacher can be compared to one 's family doctor . 
If he were brilliant , he probably would not be a family doctor in the first place . 
Our teachers are not an important factor in our educational crisis . 
Whether they are or are not underpaid is a problem of equity ; it is not an educational problem . 
It is silly libel on our teachers to think they would educate our children better if only they got a few thousand dollars a year more . 
But there is not one shred of evidence that , other things being equal , salary differentials result in educational differentials . 
If we wish to be serious about American education , we know exactly what to do -- and , just as important , what not to do . 
Conversely , there are the majority of unsuccessful schools , and we know which efforts at educational reform are doomed beforehand . 
In this respect , it would be helpful if our political leaders were mute , rather than eloquently `` concerned . '' 
Thus at the recent governors ' conference on education , Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas announced that `` this country needs a comprehensive child-development policy for children under five . '' 
A comprehensive development policy for governors over 30 would seem to be a more pressing need . 
What Gov. Clinton is advocating , in effect , is extending the educational system down to the pre-kindergarten years . 
Whether desirable or not , this is a child-care program , not an educational program . 
Let us sum up what we do know about education and about those education reforms that do work and do n't work : -- `` Parental involvement '' is a bad idea . 
Parents are too likely to blame schools for the educational limitations of their children . 
Parents should be involved with their children 's education at home , not in school . 
They should see to it that their kids do n't play truant ; they should make certain that the children spend enough time doing homework ; they should scrutinize the report card . 
Here , the experience of New York City is decisive . 
Locally elected school boards , especially in our larger cities , become the prey of ambitious , generally corrupt , and invariably demagogic local politicians or would-be politicians . 
-- In most states , increasing expenditures on education , in our current circumstances , will probably make things worse , not better . 
Decades of educational research tell us unequivocally that even smaller classes have zero effect on the academic performance of the pupils -- though they may sometimes be desirable for other reasons . 
The new money flows into the already top-heavy administrative structure , which busies itself piling more and more paper work on the teachers . 
There is neither mystery nor paradox in the fact that as educational expenditures -LRB- in real terms -RRB- have increased sharply in the past quarter-of-a-century -- we now spend more per pupil than any other country in the world -- educational performance has declined . 
-- Students should move up the educational ladder as their academic potential allows . 
No student should be permitted to be graduated from elementary school without having mastered the 3 R 's at the level that prevailed 20 years ago . 
The notion that tracking is somehow `` undemocratic '' is absurd . 
The purpose of education is to encourage young men and women to realize their full academic potential . 
-- It is generally desirable to use older textbooks -- many of them , alas , out of print -- rather than newer ones . 
The latter are modish , trendy , often downright silly , and at best insubstantial . 
They are based on dubious psychological and sociological theories rather than on educational experience . 
-- Most important of all , schools should have principals with a large measure of authority over the faculty , the curriculum , and all matters of student discipline . 
Study after study -- the most recent from the Brookings Institution -- tells us that the best schools are those that are free of outside interference and are governed by a powerful head . 
Study after study -- the most recent from the Brookings Institution -- tells us that the best schools are those that are free of outside interference and are governed by a powerful head . With that authority , of course , goes an unambiguous accountability . 
Sam Albert , a consultant in Scarsdale , N.Y. , said that in the past IBM has developed broad software strategies only for problems that crossed industry lines . 
He said he believes IBM 's decision to invest this sort of effort into a single industry showed that it was getting serious about understanding customers ' problems and was n't just selling technology . 
IBM 's push is also unusual in its approach to marketing . 
Net income , however , rose 3.7 % to 107.87 billion yen from 103.98 billion yen . 
Operating profit rose 5.5 % to 332.38 billion yen from 315.12 billion yen . 
Operating profit rose 5.5 % to 332.38 billion yen from 315.12 billion yen . Net income jumped 21 % to 79.03 billion yen from 65.53 billion yen . 
Yamaichi said its pretax profit increased 8.9 % to 117.94 billion yen from 108.28 billion yen . 
Yamaichi said its pretax profit increased 8.9 % to 117.94 billion yen from 108.28 billion yen . Operating profit rose 5.3 % to 279.75 billion yen from 265.79 billion yen . 
Yamaichi said its pretax profit increased 8.9 % to 117.94 billion yen from 108.28 billion yen . Operating profit rose 5.3 % to 279.75 billion yen from 265.79 billion yen . Net income surged 21 % to 55.59 billion yen from 46.02 billion yen . 
Operating profit rose 4 % to 293.29 billion yen from 282.08 billion yen . 
Operating profit rose 4 % to 293.29 billion yen from 282.08 billion yen . Net income rose 23 % to 63.52 billion yen from 51.65 billion yen . 
The plan would extend the period under which Eagle has the exclusive right to file a reorganization plan . 
In its bankruptcy-law petition , filed in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan , Eagle said its problems began in 1987 and early 1988 when its then-senior lender , Bankers Trust Co. , reduced its credit line . 
In September 1988 , Eagle acquired Biny Clothing Inc. , a closely held New York chain operated under the Bonds name . 
As thrifts sell assets to improve their capital-to-asset ratio , as required under the new law passed in August , they must also reduce liabilities , such as deposits . 
`` The downsizing of the thrift industry is well under way , '' said Bert Ely , an industry consultant in Alexandria , Va . 
James Barth , an economist with the Office of Thrift Supervision , also attributed some of the outflow to seasonal factors . 
`` August is a month when people are paying school tuition , '' he said . 
The deposit numbers for August marked a swing back to huge outflows after a July net deposit inflow of $ 54 million -- the only net inflow in more than a year . 
For the first eight months of 1989 , thrifts ' withdrawals exceeded deposits by $ 44.5 billion . 
The estimates of real gross national product prepared by the Bureau of Economic Analysis in the Department of Commerce significantly understate the rate of economic growth . 
In the early 1980s , I predicted a significant acceleration in productivity growth over the rest of the decade . 
But I had expected more , which is one reason I began looking at evidence suggesting defects in the official output estimates . 
This bias is in no way deliberate . 
The first of three major sources of error is the use of labor input estimates -LRB- mainly employment or hours -RRB- instead of output estimates for those sectors , such as governments , paid household services and private non-profit institutions , where there are difficulties in assembling output data . 
This means that no allowance is made for possible increases in output per unit of labor . 
In an unrelated program in which the Labor Department does estimate output per employee for more than two-thirds of federal civilian employees , it found an average annual rate of productivity improvement of 1.7 % during the 1980s . 
The federal productivity estimators use labor input , rather than output , data for their calculations of half of private financial and service industries as well . 
Independent estimates of output in those industries , including one by the Department of Labor for banking , suggests that productivity in finance and services appears to have risen by an average of at least 1.5 % a year between 1948 and 1988 . 
The second source of error in growth statistics is the use of inappropriate deflators to adjust for price changes . 
Finally , the official estimates understate growth because they make inadequate allowance for improvements in quality of goods and services . 
In sum , the biases ennumerated above indicate a 0.7 percentage point understatement in growth of total real GNP . 
Some producers of polyethylene , figuring the inventory reductions are near an end , have announced price boosts . 
Operating profit from carbon products , such as graphite electrodes , also declined , to $ 6 million from $ 20 million . 
Up to now , Drexel has made a rapid-fire series of settlements with 25 states and the commonwealth of Puerto Rico . 
But individuals familiar with the generally successful Drexel talks say the firm is meeting resistance from some big states , including New Jersey , New York , California , Pennsylvania , Connecticut and Missouri . 
Officials in some of these states say they do n't want to simply accept the settlements offered by Drexel . 
Drexel says it does n't expect any of its state brokerage licenses will be revoked , and even if some are , its securities business would n't be directly hurt . 
`` There was a lot of internal debate about that specific issue , '' said Susan Bryant , Oklahoma 's chief securities regulator and president of the North American Securities Administrators Association , which drafted a voluntary settlement plan for the states with Drexel . 
While Ms. Bryant 's state went ahead and accepted Drexel 's settlement offer of $ 25,000 , she said : `` I do n't have any argument with those who came to different conclusions . 
Mr. Cohen , the Drexel general counsel , said , `` I do n't think , as we say in investment banking , that ` by the end of the day ' we 'll be losing any licenses . '' 
Mr. Cohen said more than $ 2.8 million has been paid to 26 states and that Drexel still expects to pay out a total of $ 11.5 million . 
That total would be important for Drexel . 
The investment bank has previously announced that as part of its punishment it would create an independent foundation to promote ethical behavior in the securities industry . 
New Jersey , for example , was asked to accept $ 300,000 , but refused . 
Connecticut already has issued a `` notice of intent '' to revoke Drexel 's brokerage license . 
`` This particular issue goes to the very integrity of the capital-formation market , '' state Banking Commissioner Howard Brown said . 
Particularly touchy are the cases of New York , which is Drexel 's base , and California , the base of Drexel 's highly profitable junk-bond operation that led to the firm 's legal difficulties . 
`` This process should point out that it 's not going to be easy for a firm that 's convicted of a felony to immediately jump back into the retail business , '' Ms. Bryant said . 
Time Warner emphasized in a news release that it should be evaluated based on its cash flow , which the company defined as earnings before interest , taxes , depreciation and amortization . 
Some analysts at least are buying that argument , and were n't alarmed by the losses . 
`` For example , Warner made more than $ 100 million from filmed entertainment in three months . 
In the year-ago third quarter , Time on its own reported net income of $ 81 million , or $ 1.42 a share . 
On a pro forma basis , including all of Warner 's earnings , Time Warner had a third-quarter loss of $ 217 million , compared with a $ 342 million loss a year earlier . 
For the third quarter , Warner 's $ 106 million loss compared with a year-ago loss of $ 113 million , or 90 cents a share . 
Time Warner 's operating earnings got a boost from Warner 's record box-office results . 
`` Batman '' alone has racked up more than $ 247 million in box-office receipts to date , making it Warner Bros . ' largest grossing film ever . 
On the other hand , Time Warner said its operating cash flow declined in the quarter for its magazine division , its books division and the Home Box Office programming division . 
In magazines , higher advertising revenues at Sports Illustrated and Fortune were offset by lower ad revenue for other major magazines . 
Robert J. Penn , president and chief executive officer , will take early retirement from this steelmaker Dec 31 . 
Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady , Federal Reserve Board Chairman Alan Greenspan and Housing and Urban Development Secretary Jack Kemp are members of the board . 
An administration official confirmed last week that Mr. Simmons , the chairman of Valley National Bank in Phoenix , is the Republican appointee , and that a security clearance was under way . 
`` We believe that there are numerous other candidates more qualified for this important position and we encourage you to give them your thorough consideration before making this key RTC appointment , '' the letter said . 
But Mr. Simmons has long ties to both Republicans and banking . 
He was co-chairman of Mr. Bush 's Arizona campaign committee in last year 's election , and also worked for Mr. Bush in the 1980 election . 
Moody 's Investors Service Inc. said it lowered the debt ratings of certain long-term debt held by this company . 
Lloyd 's , once a pillar of the world insurance market , is being shaken to its very foundation . 
At the same time , Lloyd 's is besieged by disgruntled investors and hamstrung by inefficient but time-honored ways of conducting business . 
`` Lloyd 's is on the ropes , '' says Peter Nutting , a Lloyd 's investor for 17 years who now leads a dissident group threatening to sue exchange underwriters for alleged mismanagement and negligence . 
`` It needs more discipline . 
Most troublesome is the shrinking pool of `` names , '' the well-heeled investors -LRB- some of them royal -RRB- who , as members of about 360 syndicates , underwrite policies . 
Some 1,750 members quit the exchange last year , more than triple the number of resignations in 1987 . 
Lackluster returns are one reason . 
The average after-tax return on investment in 1986 , the most recent year for which results are available , was 6.5 % , according to Chatset Ltd. , an insurance consulting firm in London . 
Many of the 31,329 investors who remain are beginning to question one of the exchange 's most basic tenets , the concept of unlimited personal liability . 
During the five-year period ended 1986 , roughly 80 % of the names had money tied up in money-losing syndicates , according to Chatset consultants . 
The peril of unlimited liability looms large for a number of them now . 
Ms. Atkins , whose Lloyd 's membership was a bonus from a former employer in 1981 , belongs to Mr. Nutting 's dissident group on the Outhwaite syndicate , which has been hard hit by asbestos reinsurance claims . 
Ms. Atkins , who underwrote # 20,000 , or about $ 32,000 , of insurance coverage on that syndicate , now faces potential losses of roughly # 70,000 , or $ 111,000 . 
Unease is widespread among exchange members . 
`` I ca n't think of any reason to join Lloyd 's now , '' says Keith Whitten , a British businessman and a Lloyd 's member since 1979 . 
`` The downside is very considerable , and at the moment the upside is very marginal . '' 
Meanwhile , competition from rivals unencumbered by history is intensifying . 
Lloyd 's is being squeezed out of low-margin but more consistently profitable product lines such as primary property and marine insurance . 
At the peak of its power and influence a century ago , Lloyd 's dominated the insurance world with a 50 % stake . 
Today , Lloyd 's share of the world market , excluding life insurance , is about 2 % . 
Today , Lloyd 's share of the world market , excluding life insurance , is about 2 % . -LRB- Its stake is even smaller if life insurance is included . -RRB- 
Bigger rivals , such as Aetna and Allianz , backed by armies of statisticians using computers in hundreds of branches , operate more efficiently and often can offer lower rates , brokers say . 
Beyond that , many big oil , chemical and airline companies are siphoning off big chunks of the market by insuring themselves through `` captive '' offshore companies for industry-specific coverage . 
Thus , he asserts , Lloyd 's ca n't react quickly to competition . 
`` Lloyd 's has lost control of the situation , '' he says . 
Murray Lawrence , Lloyd 's chairman , agrees the exchange faces big challenges . 
By that , he means low-margin but low-risk products such as certain types of primary property insurance . 
That wo n't be an easy task . 
Tradition is dictator at Lloyd 's . 
Three years ago , the exchange took up residence in a space-age tower of steel and glass -- evocative of the kind of modern architecture that Britain 's Prince Charles has denounced . 
The Lloyd 's market actively underwrites insurance just 4 1\/2 hours a day , brokers say . 
Underwriting does n't get under way until after morning tea at 10 a.m . 
A two-hour lunch break follows . 
Brokers clutching thick folders stand in lines , waiting their turn to speak to the underwriters . 
Some maintain underwriters also have been inept . 
John Wetherell , a Lloyd 's underwriter , says he and his fellow underwriters underestimated by as much as 50 % the premiums they should have charged for property risks from 1980 to 1985 . 
More recently , property rates have increased . 
The magnitude of the exchange 's problems may not become known for some time because of Lloyd 's practice of leaving the books open for three years to allow for the settlement of claims . 
But Mr. Lawrence says reported profit will be down in 1987 , 1988 and 1989 , though he declines to specify how steep the decline will be . 
Lloyd 's says the departures of names is n't likely to hurt its underwriting capacity , currently about # 11 billion . 
Meanwhile , the exchange has been trying to lower costs . 
But Lloyd 's is hampered in its efforts to overhaul operations by its reluctance to embrace modern technology . 
Mr. Wetherell , the underwriter , reckons half of his business could be transacted by computer , cutting costs at least 10 % . 
Though Lloyd 's has talked for years about computerizing underwriting transactions , the effort has n't gotten very far . 
Competition among underwriters and brokers makes them loath to centralize price and policy information . 
Lloyd 's overblown bureaucracy also hampers efforts to update marketing strategies . 
Some underwriters have been pressing for years to tap the low-margin business by selling some policies directly to consumers . 
But such changes must be cleared by four internal committees and dozens of underwriters , brokers and administrators before being implemented . 
Lloyd 's is moving forward on some fronts , though . 
Mr. Lawrence says the exchange is updating some procedures to make speedier payments on claims . 
Mr. Dozen succeeds Sadakane Doi , who will become vice chairman . 
In Japanese firms , the president usually is in charge of day-to-day operations , while the chairman 's role is more a ceremonial one . 
While people within Daiwa , particularly internationalists , expected that Mr. Dozen , 52 , would eventually become Daiwa 's president , the speed of his promotion surprised many . 
Daiwa is one of the world 's largest securities firms . 
As of March 31 , the Daiwa group had shareholder equity of 801.21 billion yen -LRB- $ 5.64 billion -RRB- . 
All of Japan 's so-called Big Four securities firms -- Nomura Securities Co. Ltd. , the world 's largest , Nikko Securities Co. Ltd. , Yamaichi Securities Co. Ltd. and Daiwa -- have suffered setbacks in their attempts to break into foreign markets . 
Mr. Dozen knows these problems firsthand . 
When he arrived in the U.S. in 1969 -- the start of an eight-year tour -- he tried selling Japanese yen-denominated bonds to U.S. investors . 
By his own account , Mr. Dozen did n't do much better with U.S. bonds . 
But he could n't sell any . 
`` Japanese stock salesmen selling American bonds ? 
Mr. Dozen even related the indignity suffered when he and two colleagues went on an overnight fishing expedition off the New Jersey shore and caught nothing . 
He said that he was particularly interested in his firm gaining expertise in futures , options , mortgaged-backed securities , computerized trading and investment systems as well as mergers and acquisitions . 
Mr. Dozen joined Daiwa upon his graduation from Kyoto University in 1959 . 
In his climb to the top , Mr. Dozen also headed the company 's stock-exchange division , its fixed-income units and its international operations . 
`` He was constantly picking up new things to fill out his experience 
But it Mr. Dozen 's experience as a salesman that enabled him to gain the political support -- particularly from the retail sales force -- to accede to the presidency . 
If Mr. Dozen has a weakness , it may be his golf game . 
Inco shares fell after the announcements . 
Analysts said some investors were disappointed that the cash-rich company had failed to announce a special dividend . 
Inco 's net fell to $ 129.3 million , or $ 1.23 a share , in the third quarter from $ 200.3 million , or $ 1.88 a share , a year earlier . 
Inco said it plans to buy back as many as five million common shares over the next 12 months if nickel market conditions are favorable . 
The effort to create the nation 's largest employee-owned company began unraveling Oct. 13 when the labor-management group was unable to obtain financing for its $ 300-a-share , $ 6.79 billion offer . 
But it was clear that for the time being , the board wants the company to return to normalcy . 
But Mr. Wolf faces a monumental task in pulling the company back together again . 
Labor problems top the list . 
For a brief time , the buy-out effort seemed to solve his problems with United 's pilot union . 
That contract was tied to the success of the buy-out . 
As a `` good-will measure , '' the pilots had been working four extra hours a month and had agreed to fly UAL 's two new Boeing 747-400 aircraft . 
The buy-out effort also worsened already-strained relations between United 's pilot and machinist unions . 
The machinists previously had shown themselves to be an ally to Mr. Wolf , but he lost much of his credibility with that group when he teamed up with the pilot union . 
The machinists criticized the terms Mr. Wolf and management received in the buy-out . 
His credibility is also on the line in the investment community . 
Arbitragers said they were disappointed the company did n't announce some recapitalization or other plan to maximize value . 
One takeover expert noted that arbitragers could force a recapitalization through the written consent process under which holders may oust the board by a majority vote . 
However , he is restricted from making certain hostile moves by an agreement he signed to obtain confidential UAL data . 
Tandy 's decision is a second setback for U.S. Memories . 
Last month , Apple Computer Inc. said that it would n't invest in the group . 
U.S. Memories is seeking major investors to back its attempt to crack the $ 10 billion market for dynamic random access memory chips , a market dominated by the Japanese . 
Tandy said its experience during the shortage did n't merit the $ 5 million to $ 50 million investment U.S. Memories is seeking from each investor . 
Sanford Kane , U.S. Memories president , said the decision was `` disappointing , '' but does n't presage U.S. Memories ' failure . 
Mr. Kane said he expects two or three major corporations to announce their participation in U.S. Memories soon after the group finishes a business plan , probably late this week . 
But so far , most potential participants have n't decided . 
American Telephone & Telegraph Co. said it was waiting to see U.S. Memories ' business plan . Sun Microsystems Inc. said it 's still actively evaluating U.S. Memories and plans to meet with U.S. Memories representatives later this week . 
In a startling turnabout , Members of the Senate Intelligence Committee are complaining that someone in the executive branch is leaking on them . 
With due respect to `` highly classified correspondence '' and other buzzwords , the leakers are performing a public service . 
If the CIA has become a protection service for Mr. Noriega , the American people ought to know . 
What went wrong in Panama is a fitting subject for public and congressional inquiry . 
The President of the United States urged the Panamanian armed forces to move against Mr. Noriega . 
For example , what exactly did the CIA tell Major Giroldi and his fellow coup plotters about U.S. laws and executive orders on assassinations ? 
What part did U.S. warnings play in the major 's unwillingness to pull the trigger when he had General Noriega in custody , but was under attack by pro-Noriega troops ? 
Mr. Noriega did n't suffer from any hesitation once he had the pistol . 
CIA chief William Webster , hardly a Washington malcontent , got the debate started last week by noting that the executive order banning assassinations had contributed to U.S. paralysis during the coup . 
The CIA 's Deputy Director of Operations , Richard Stoltz , tried to smooth things over a few days later , but instead simply underlined Mr. Webster 's point . 
In other words , Congress wo n't let the CIA do much of anything anymore , and that 's fine with the CIA . 
And of course , doing anything that might be second-guessed by Congress carries heavy penalties . 
Witness the Walsh prosecution of Ollie North . 
No doubt many people in the CIA , the Pentagon and the National Security Council have read it . 
What kind of initiative should anyone expect from people out on the line who 've read all this and know what can happen if they fail ? 
The order against assassinations is another artifact of the same congressional mind-set , a product of the 1970s Vietnam syndrome against any executive action . 
President Bush would do himself and the country a favor by rescinding the order as an ambiguous intrusion on his ability to defend America 's national security . 
There are of course good reasons the U.S. should n't get into the assassination business , but rescinding the executive order is not the same thing as saying the U.S. should start passing out exploding cigars . 
The world being the nasty place it is , we want Presidents to have the freedom to order operations in which someone might get killed . 
The executive order and the reported agreements with the Intelligence Committee are neither sensible nor moral . 
As it now stands , the U.S. can bomb Tripoli , but ca n't `` assassinate '' Colonel Gadhafi . 
It can send a fighter squadron to strafe terrorist hideouts in the Bekaa Valley , but ca n't shoot Abu Nidal . 
We 've heard California 's property-tax-cutting Proposition 13 blamed for a lot over the years , but ABC 's Ted Koppel came up with a new wrinkle in his earthquake coverage last week when he asked Democratic Assemblyman Richard Katz if Prop. 13 had withheld money needed for road maintenance . 
Mr. Katz happily agreed , sliding over the fact that California 's roads and bridges are n't funded by property taxes but by state and federal gasoline taxes . 
Both have been raised at least 30 % in recent years , even while the price of gasoline has fallen . 
The Bartlesville , Okla. , oil company late yesterday still had n't said officially what caused the explosions and fires , which sent columns of heavy black smoke billowing high into the air . 
The U.S. Coast Guard closed six miles of the Houston Ship Channel , where about 150 companies have operations , because the thick , black smoke obscured the area . 
The blasts blew out windows , spewed debris for miles and crumpled the ceiling in an area elementary school . 
Nearby Pasadena , Texas , police reported that 104 people had been taken to area hospitals , but a spokeswoman said that toll could rise . 
The plant employs between 800 and 900 on three shifts . 
Yesterday 's explosions were the second round in two months at the plastics plant . 
The Phillips facility manufactures polyethylene , polypropylene and K-resin , plastics used in a wide array of applications , including milk jugs and toys . 
In the suit , filed in June 1988 , the government accused the union 's leadership of depriving its 1.6 million members of their rights through a pattern of racketeering . 
Exxon Corp. said its third-quarter earnings slipped 9 % as profits from two of its three major businesses sagged . 
Phillips Petroleum Co. and Atlantic Richfield Co. also reported declines in quarterly profit , while Ashland Oil Inc. posted a loss for the latest quarter . 
She added , however , that charges already taken do n't take into account the potential effect of litigation involving the oil spill . 
Exxon 's net income during the third quarter dropped to $ 1.11 billion , or 87 cents a share , from $ 1.22 billion , or 93 cents a share , a year earlier . 
Exxon 's profitability , like that of many other oil companies , was hurt during the third quarter by declining returns from the chemicals and refining and marketing businesses . 
Although crude oil prices were significantly higher this year , they were n't strong enough to offset the declining profits in those business sectors at most oil companies , said William Randol , oil analyst for First Boston Corp . 
A rash of one-time charges left Ashland Oil with a loss of $ 39 million for its fiscal fourth quarter . 
A year earlier , the refiner earned $ 66 million , or $ 1.19 a share . 
Quarterly revenue rose 4.5 % , to $ 2.3 billion from $ 2.2 billion . 
The Ashland , Ky. , oil company reported a $ 38 million charge resulting from settlement of a 10-year dispute with the National Iranian Oil Co. over claims that Ashland did n't pay for Iranian crude it had received . 
Third-quarter earnings at Amerada Hess more than tripled to $ 51.81 million , or 64 cents a share , from $ 15.7 million , or 20 cents a share , a year earlier . 
Profits improved across Hess 's businesses . 
Refining and marketing earnings climbed to $ 33.3 million from $ 12.9 million , and exploration and production earnings rose to $ 37.1 million from $ 17.9 million . 
Hess 's earnings were up despite a $ 30 million charge to cover the cost of maintaining operations after Hurricane Hugo heavily damaged the company 's refinery at St. Croix . 
It is widely known within industry circles that Hess had to buy oil products in the high-priced spot markets to continue supplying its customers . 
Phillips Petroleum 's third-quarter earnings slid 60 % , to $ 87 million , or 36 cents a share , from $ 215 million , or 89 cents a share . 
Shrinking profit margins in chemical and refining and marketing sectors accounted for most of the decline , said Chairman C.J. Silas in a statement . 
Despite higher oil prices , exploration and production profits were off because of foreign-currency losses and some construction costs incurred in one of Phillips ' North Sea oil fields . 
Citing its reduced ownership in the Lyondell Petrochemical Co. , Atlantic Richfield reported that net income slid 3.1 % in the third quarter to $ 379 million , or $ 2.19 a share , from $ 391 million , or $ 2.17 a share , for the comparable period last year . 
Arco 's earnings from its 49.9 % stake in Lyondell fell to $ 37 million from $ 156 million for the same period last year , when Lyondell was wholly owned . 
Offsetting the lower stake in Lyondell were higher crude oil prices , increased natural gas volumes and higher coke prices , the company said . 
The issue is the first by Ford Motor Credit , a unit of Ford Motor Co. , and the second largest in the four-year history of the $ 45 billion asset-backed market . 
The Ford issue , through Ford Credit 1989-A Grantor Trust , was priced at a yield spread of 95 basis points above the Treasury 7 3\/4 % issue due July 1991 . 
`` But I 'm going to proceed in a more logical way . 
`` Ninety percent of Mort 's old show fits into our style , '' said Mr. Eskridge . 
Many of those `` cyclical '' issues are in the Dow Jones Industrial Average , which fell 26.23 to 2662.91 . 
Recession fears are springing up again among investors . 
Analysts say that the selling of cyclical stocks yesterday will be followed by a sell-off in shares of companies with big debt loads on their balance sheets . 
On the other hand , investors beat a clear path yesterday to blue-chip issues with proven earnings growth records . 
Many money managers are bracing for a decline in stocks of companies with big debt loads on their balance sheets . 
`` The junk bond market is being taken apart '' because of recession fears , said J. David Mills , senior vice president at Boston Company Advisers . 
In fact , much of the buying in blue chips yesterday was a pursuit of companies with lower debt levels . 
`` We 're saying companies have to pay increasing attention to balance sheets , '' said Mr. Kerschner . 
He suggested that investors buy the shares of Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea , J. Baker , McDonald 's , Philip Morris and Sara Lee . 
He said that all of these companies will be able to compete fiercely in an economic downturn . 
Coca-Cola climbed 1 3\/8 to 72 1\/8 ; McDonald 's added 1 to 31 3\/8 , and Procter & Gamble gained 3\/4 to 130 5\/8 . 
Coca-Cola climbed 1 3\/8 to 72 1\/8 ; McDonald 's added 1 to 31 3\/8 , and Procter & Gamble gained 3\/4 to 130 5\/8 . A&P fell 1 1\/4 to 57 5\/8 , and J. Baker gained 3\/8 to 21 1\/4 . 
According to Salomon Brothers ' `` stub '' stock index of 20 companies whose debt is giant compared with shareholder equity , investors are already beginning to retreat from shares of debt-laden companies . 
`` Stocks that have a high default risk have started to underperform those stocks that have a lower default risk , '' said Eric Sorenson , director of quantitative analysis at Salomon Brothers . 
Other weak blue-chip issues included Chevron , which went down 2 to 64 7\/8 in Big Board composite trading of 1.3 million shares ; Goodyear Tire & Rubber , off 1 1\/2 to 46 3\/4 , and American Express , down 3\/4 to 37 1\/4 . 
Pinnacle West Capital , whose earnings have been hurt by continued problems at its MeraBank unit , fell 1 5\/8 to 9 1\/8 on 2.1 million shares to lead the Big Board 's list of most active issues . 
Growing pressures on the Arizona real-estate market are affecting the thrift 
Hercules dropped 2 5\/8 to 41 3\/4 on one million shares -- about six times its average daily trading volume -- after a disappointing third-quarter earnings report . 
Elsewhere in the chemicals sector , Dow Chemical fell 1 1\/4 to 97 1\/2 , Monsanto lost 1 7\/8 to 118 , B.F. Goodrich slipped 2 1\/4 to 44 3\/4 and Olin slid 1 to 57 3\/4 . 
Other stocks hurt by earnings-related selling included Tandy , which dropped 1 3\/8 to 44 , and Eaton , which retreated 2 1\/2 to 57 1\/2 . 
Ramada gained 7\/8 to 11 1\/4 after revamping the terms of its restructuring plan , which calls for the company to sell its hotel operations for $ 540 million and spin off its casino business to shareholders . 
Mead gained 1 to 37 7\/8 . 
Entertainment and media stocks generally escaped the market 's slide as well . 
The American Stock Exchange Market Value Index lost 3.11 to 379.46 . 
Carnival Cruise Lines Class A fell 1 3\/4 to 20 3\/4 . 
`` Hacksaw '' and `` Bonecrusher '' are the sort of nicknames normally associated with linebackers and heavyweight contenders . 
Chicago 's new school chief is the hard-nosed Ted Kimbrough . 
At his old job in Compton , Calif. , he took a bitter teachers ' strike and nearly came to blows with a school-board member . 
At his first Chicago press conference , he berated the reporters . 
The subject of the movie `` Lean on Me , '' Mr. Clark controlled his school with a bullhorn and a baseball bat . 
He may have gone overboard in his pursuit of good discipline , but is n't it interesting that some of the country 's biggest , most troubled school districts are choosing new chiefs from the same gravel-chewing mold ? 
Mr. Fernandez does n't take control in New York until January , but already he 's roiling the waters . 
He 's attacked the concept of `` building tenure , '' one of the most disgraceful institutions in American public schools . 
It means it is virtually impossible to fire or even transfer incompetent principals . 
Once they are in the building , they stay . 
One South Bronx principal kept his job for 16 years , despite a serious drinking problem and rarely showing up for work . 
Naturally , the principals ' union loves building tenure , and tenure has withstood previous challenge . 
We suggest that Mr. Fernandez find an incompetent principal , toss him out of the building and let the forces of the status quo explain to the parents whatever it is they 're defending . 
In his old job , as Dade County chief , Mr. Fernandez forced out 92 teachers and reshuffled 48 principals . 
The situation will be especially delicate for Mr. Kimbrough . 
He takes over a school system in the midst of radical reform . 
Chicagoans have just elected 540 neophyte school boards , one for each school . 
This of course led to disaster in New York City . 
The rise of superintendents such as Joseph Fernandez and Ted Kimbrough suggests plainly the process of disintegration in many school systems . 
The schools ' central mission , educating children , became subsumed by the competing interests of bureaucrats , politicians and unions . 
Mr. Chips was a nice fellow , and maybe some day he 'll return . 
As part of the agreement , Goodson also terminated the contract under which Ingersoll manages Goodson 's 66 newspapers , ending a long association between the two companies that has turned increasingly bitter recently . 
Under the terms of the accord , Ingersoll will pay about $ 255 million for the Register , a daily that Goodson bought for about $ 170 million in 1986 . 
The New Jersey paper , like the New Haven , Conn. , paper , was purchased by Ingersoll on Goodson 's behalf as part of the management contract . 
Industry analysts have said that the purchase price for the paper was too high , causing a strain on Goodson 's finances . 
The association between the two companies stretches back thirty years to a friendship between television producer Mark Goodson and Ingersoll founder Ralph Ingersoll . 
Ingersoll has 28 dailies and 200 other non-daily papers in the U.S. and Europe . 
Ingersoll President Robert M. Jelenic said in a statement that the company is `` delighted by the conclusion of the Goodson relationship '' and will be able to `` concentrate all our energies '' on Ingersoll 's own papers . 
He will succeed Harry L. Freeman , 57 , who has said he will retire in December . 
Mr. Freeman said in August that he would retire by the end of this year to take `` executive responsibility '' for an embarrassing effort to discredit banker Edmond Safra . 
Ad industry executives were n't surprised by Mr. Roman 's decision to leave Ogilvy . 
Mr. Roman will be succeeded as the head of Ogilvy 's flagship ad agency , Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide , by Graham Phillips , 50 , who had been president of North American operations and who , like Mr. Sorrell , is British . 
Alexander Brody , 56 , will take on the newly created position of president of the world-wide agency and chief executive of its international operations . 
Mr. Roman appears custom-made for the American Express job . 
He also is close to American Express 's chairman and chief executive officer , James D. Robinson III . 
But Mr. Roman flatly denied the speculation , saying Mr. Sorrell had tried several times to persuade him to stay , offering various incentives and in one instance sending a note with a case of wine -LRB- The wine , naturally , was Seagram 's brand , an Ogilvy client -RRB- . 
`` He asked me not to resign . 
After talking on and off for the past four weeks , Mr. Roman said , he agreed to take the job because `` it 's the right time , it 's a terrific opportunity , and I think I leave the company in very strong hands . 
Mr. Roman also brushed aside reports about infighting between him and Mr. Phillips , his successor at Ogilvy . 
The two executives could hardly be more different . 
Mr. Roman comes across as a low-key executive 
Mr. Roman comes across as a low-key executive ; Mr. Phillips has a flashier personality . 
During time off , Mr. Roman tends to his garden 
During time off , Mr. Roman tends to his garden ; Mr. Phillips confesses to a fondness for , among other things , fast cars and planes . 
`` I 'm the guy who made him head of New York , head of the U.S. , president of North America , and recommended him -LCB- to Mr. Sorrell -RCB- as my successor . 
Would I have done all those things successively if I did n't think he was the right guy ? '' Mr. Roman asked . 
Mr. Roman 's departure is n't expected to have any enormous repercussions at Ogilvy . 
American Express , Kraft General Foods , and Mattel executives said the move wo n't affect their relationships with the ad agency . 
But some clients and analysts expressed concern that Mr. Phillips is n't as well-known to many clients . 
`` Ken was my key contact , '' said J. Nicholas Hahn , president and chief executive officer of Cotton Inc. , which represents cotton producers . 
`` I do n't know -LCB- Mr. Phillips -RCB- all that well . 
And some analysts questioned whether Mr. Phillips would have the skills Ogilvy needs to turn the agency around . 
While the agency has done well in many parts of the world , its flagship New York office has had a dismal track record recently 
While the agency has done well in many parts of the world , its flagship New York office has had a dismal track record recently ; it has won few new accounts while losing big ones , including Maxwell House . 
`` I think -LCB- Mr. Phillips -RCB- is going to need some help . 
Ogilvy & Mather 's top creative executive , Norman Berry , left the agency earlier this year . 
But other analysts said that having Mr. Phillips succeed Mr. Roman would make for a smooth transition . 
`` Graham Phillips has been there a long time , knows the culture well , is aggressive , and apparently gets along well with '' Mr. Sorrell , said Andrew Wallach , an analyst with Drexel Burnham Lambert . 
`` It 's probably a reasonable transition . 
The Turner move is in line with a cable-TV trend toward more original programming -- and toward finding more ways to amortize the high cost of producing films . 
Its cash-or-shares bid values Navigation Mixte at about 22.82 billion francs -LRB- $ 3.62 billion -RRB- , making this one of France 's largest-ever attempted takeovers . 
Allianz holds a 50 % stake in Navigation Mixte 's insurance interests , acquired three weeks ago . 
Long considered a potential takeover target , Navigation Mixte had hoped Allianz would help protect it from raiders . 
That idea may have backfired . 
But Navigation Mixte is loosely held and hard to defend . 
`` The defensive options are limited , '' says Philippe Braye , a partner in portfolio management concern France Finance Quatre . 
If the Paribas bid succeeds , it will be the second time in two months a big French investment banking group has snapped up an insurance group . 
Last month , Paribas 's archrival , Cie . Financiere de Suez , won a battle for Groupe Victoire , France 's second-largest private-sector insurer , which itself had just acquired West Germany 's Colonia Versicherung AG . 
Paribas officials , once considered France 's toughest bankers , felt abashed at Suez 's success and its rapid growth . 
It also reflects the broader pressure on companies in Europe to keep up as the European Community prepares to reduce internal trade barriers by 1992 . 
He also told reporters the acquisition would give Paribas fresh diversity , bringing it properties in food and transport where it has been weak . 
And Navigation Mixte has a huge hidden attraction . 
Some financial sources said privately that Paribas blundered in failing to move sooner for the insurance and industrial group , bidding only after speculation had pushed up the price . 
Mr. Francois-Poncet responded that his group initially intended to take only a minority stake , striking an alliance with current management . 
When notoriously independent-minded Navigation Mixte Chairman Marc Fournier rejected Paribas 's offer and began buying Paribas shares in retaliation , Mr. Francois-Poncet said , he felt obliged to bid for control . 
A bid against Paribas could n't be ruled out . 
With prices already headed lower , news of a series of explosions at a major Phillips Petroleum Co. chemical facility on the Houston Ship Channel also was bearish for prices . 
A company official said the explosions began when a seal blew out . 
For instance , one trader said that prices inevitably will go lower now that they 've fallen below $ 20 a barrel . 
The selling that started on Friday continued yesterday . 
The December contract fell 3.85 cents a pound to $ 1.1960 . 
London Metal Exchange warehouse stocks were down only 4,800 metric tons for the week to 84,500 tons 
Fund selling also picked up at that point . 
According to Bernard Savaiko , senior commodity analyst at PaineWebber , the only stability to the market came when short sellers periodically moved in to cover their positions by buying contracts . 
This activity produced small rallies , which in turn attracted new short selling . 
Copper has been stuck in a trading range of $ 1.19 to $ 1.34 . 
Platinum and palladium struggled to maintain their prices all day despite news stories over the weekend that recent cold fusion experiments , which use both metals , showed signs of producing extra heat . 
January platinum closed down $ 2.80 an ounce at $ 486.30 , nearly $ 4 above its low for the day . 
Some traders were thought to be waiting for the auto sales report , which will be released today . 
Such sales are watched closely by platinum and palladium traders because both metals are used in automobile catalytic converters . 
Mr. Savaiko theorized that the news on cold fusion did n't affect the market yesterday because many traders have already been badly burnt by such stories . 
Also weighing on both metals ' prices is the role of the chief supplier , the Soviet Union . 
Prices closed mixed as contracts reacted to largely offsetting bullish and bearish news . 
On the Chicago Board of Trade , soybeans for November delivery closed at $ 5.63 a bushel , down half a cent , while the December wheat contract rose three-quarters of a cent to $ 4.0775 a bushel . 
World prices tumbled , mostly from their own weight , according to analysts . 
But with no reports of either country actually entering the market , analysts said , futures prices became vulnerable . 
But Erik Dunlaevy , a sugar analyst with Balfour Maclaine International Ltd. , said the explanation for the latest drop in sugar prices is much simpler : Speculators , he said , `` got too long too soon and ran into resistance around the old contract highs . '' 
Futures rallied modestly . 
The December contract rose $ 33 a metric ton to $ 1,027 , near its high for the day . 
Market technicians were encouraged by the price patterns , which in the past have preceded sharp rallies . 
He also noted that a strong sterling market yesterday might have helped cocoa in New York as arbitragers took advantage of the currency move . 
Early in the day , bonds rose modestly on economists ' forecasts that this week 's slate of economic data will portray an economy headed for trouble . 
The consensus forecast of 14 economists surveyed by Dow Jones Capital Markets Report is for a 1.2 % drop in September orders . 
Bonds received a bigger boost later in the day when stock prices moved broadly lower . 
`` Bond investors have been watching stocks closely , '' said Joel Marver , chief fixed-income analyst at Technical Data Global Markets Group . 
The Treasury 's benchmark 30-year bond ended about 1\/2 point higher , or up about $ 5 for each $ 1,000 face amount , while the yield slid to 7.93 % from 7.98 % Friday . 
The Treasury 's benchmark 30-year bond ended about 1\/2 point higher , or up about $ 5 for each $ 1,000 face amount , while the yield slid to 7.93 % from 7.98 % Friday . Municipals ended mixed , while mortgage-backed and investment-grade corporate bonds rose . 
`` On the other hand , we have economic news that is -LCB- expected to be -RCB- relatively positive for the bond market . 
Today , the Treasury will sell $ 10 billion of new two-year notes . 
So far , money managers and other bond buyers have n't shown much interest in the Refcorp bonds . 
Analysts have mixed views about the two-year note auction . 
The division of auto maker Ford Motor Co. made its debut in the asset-backed securities market with the second-largest issue in the market 's four-year history . 
The issue yields 8.90 % and carries a guarantee covering 9 % of the deal from the company . 
First Boston sweetened the terms from the original yield estimate in an apparent effort to place the huge offering . 
The benchmark 30-year bond ended at a price of 102 3\/32 , compared with 101 17\/32 Friday . 
The latest 10-year notes were quoted late at 100 17\/32 to yield 7.90 % , compared with 100 3\/32 to yield 7.97 % . The benchmark 30-year bond ended at a price of 102 3\/32 , compared with 101 17\/32 Friday . 
The Treasury sold $ 7.81 billion of three-month bills with an average discount rate of 7.52 % , the highest since the average of 7.63 % at the auction on Oct. 10 . 
Thus , higher bidding narrows the investor 's return while lower bidding widens it . 
Both issues are dated Oct. 26 . 
Peter Karches , managing director at underwriter Morgan Stanley & Co. , said the issue was oversubscribed . 
`` It 's a segmented market , and if you have a good , strong credit , people have an appetite for it , '' he said . 
In the case of Beatrice , Salomon Brothers Inc. is considering restructuring the reset mechanism on the $ 200 million portion of the offering . 
Under the originally contemplated terms of the offering , the notes would have been reset annually at a fixed spread above Treasurys . 
Under the new plan being considered , the notes would reset annually at a rate to maintain a market value of 101 . 
Part of the reason for the heavy activity in derivative markets is that underwriters are repackaging mortgage securities being sold by thrifts . 
Government National Mortgage Association 9 % securities for November delivery were quoted late yesterday at 98 10\/32 , up 10\/32 ; and Freddie Mac 9 % securities were at 97 1\/2 , up 1\/4 . 
An official with lead underwriter First Boston said orders for the San Antonio bonds were `` on the slow side . '' 
A $ 137.6 million Maryland Stadium Authority sports facilities lease revenue bond issue appeared to be off to a good start . 
The turnaround in the dollar fueled bearish sentiment about Japan 's bond market . 
The benchmark No. 111 4.6 % bond due 1998 ended on brokers ' screens at a price of 95.39 , off 0.28 . 
West German bond prices ended lower after a day of aimless trading . 
British government bonds ended slightly higher in quiet trading as investors looked ahead to today 's British trade report . 
My language sure goes to pot down here on the coast . '' 
He has two more years at Texas A&M . 
The little radio fizzes as other boats want to see if we have found any fish -- spotting location is everything in this sport . 
The fish often are plentiful around the pilings of the old gas wells that dot the flat surface like the remains of sunken ships . 
The sun is hot now though it 's only 8 in the morning . 
We cruise toward another set of pilings . 
It comes real gentle before it pulls . 
`` Pickin ' one or two , '' says the guide , chuckling . `` You can tell they 've got nothin ' . '' 
A pair of black skimmers zig-zag past close to the surface . 
This must be the last big stretch of the American seacoast that is `` undeveloped . '' 
There are a few ramshackle fishing towns with quiet atolls of resort houses nearby . 
People are not apt to be self-conscious about the place or themselves . 
Last year a gunner shot a whooper by mistake thinking that it was a snow goose . 
The peninsula comes off the vast southeastern alluvial plain with fields of rice and cotton and sorghum as far as the eye can see . 
The peninsula comes off the vast southeastern alluvial plain with fields of rice and cotton and sorghum as far as the eye can see . Near the coast there are dense coverts of live oak interspersed with marshes and prairies . 
The peninsula comes off the vast southeastern alluvial plain with fields of rice and cotton and sorghum as far as the eye can see . Near the coast there are dense coverts of live oak interspersed with marshes and prairies . Deer , wild hog , armadillos and alligators are the glamour quadrupeds and the birds are innumerable , especially the herons and the spoonbills . 
`` Tivoli Motel , '' I read a sign in the usual pronunciation of the name as we whoosh through . 
The two West German electronics concerns said they have set up European Power Semiconductor Co. to merge their activities in the field . 
The joint venture will have nominal capital of 50 million marks -LRB- $ 26.9 million -RRB- and 700 employees . 
Siemens is West Germany 's largest electronics group . 
Dana Corp. said its third-quarter net income fell 27 % to $ 29.6 million , or 72 cents a share , from $ 40.7 million , or $ 1 a share , a year earlier . 
The company , which supplies transmissions and other drive-train parts to auto makers , said about half the earnings drop came from the `` virtual collapse '' of the Venezuelan auto industry . 
The company , based in Toledo , Ohio , had said it expected reduced third-quarter profit . 
At age 19 , she was a Paris sensation , transformed from unwanted child to international sex symbol in just over a decade . 
Her bare breasts , her dancing , her voice , her beauty and , perhaps most famously , her derriere , were prominent attractions , but courage of a rare sort made her remarkable life possible . 
Men were a constant complication . 
But she did n't trust them and did n't reward trust . 
Her appetite for children also was large . 
She made money , but spent more . 
Another lifelong complication , as Phyllis Rose makes clear in `` Jazz Cleopatra : Josephine Baker in Her Time '' -LRB- Doubleday , 321 pages , $ 22.50 -RRB- , was racism . 
Baker had the good luck to arrive in 1925 Paris , where blacks had become exotic . 
African art was in vogue and some intellectuals were writing breathlessly of a dawning age to be inspired by blacks . 
Paris loved her at first sight . 
`` She just wiggled her fanny and all the French fell in love with her , '' sniffed the literary world 's Maria Jolas , not entirely inaccurately . 
`` One can hardly overemphasize the importance of her rear end , '' Ms. Rose writes . 
Still , even the title raises questions about the author 's vision of her subject . 
Baker 's art was jazz only by the widest stretch of the term . 
During World War II , her uncomplicated view of life led her to the conclusion that the Nazis were evil and must be resisted , a decision made by only about 2 % of French citizens . 
In Humphrey Bogart 's nightclub , Victor Laszlo leads Free French sympathizers in `` La Marseillaise '' to drown out the Nazis . 
In her introduction , Ms. Rose writes that she feels she has much in common with Baker , but as `` Jazz Cleopatra '' goes on , it seems more rushed , as though the author were growing less interested . 
It does n't help that sometimes Ms. Rose 's language fails to deliver the effect she appears to want . 
But Manville 's ownership is unusual , and it has caught the eye of some canny -- and patient -- investors . 
`` Their principal asset is Manville common stock , '' says Jeffrey Halis , who runs Sabre Associates , an investment fund that owns Manville shares . 
`` If they tried to sell , they 'd be chasing their own tail . 
However , the trust 's cash flow from investments is far short of its payments to asbestos victims . 
And , beginning in 1992 , it will have a claim on as much as 20 % of Manville 's annual net income . 
Even so , the trust would seem to be facing a cash crunch . 
As of June 30 , it had settled only about 15,000 of the 81,000 received claims from asbestos victims , for an average of $ 40,424 each . 
And as of midyear , settled but unpaid claims amounted to $ 136 million -- more than half the trust 's total of $ 268 million in cash and marketable securities . 
Even before then , the trust may be eager to unload Manville stock . 
Moreover , with 88 % of its assets tied up in Manville , the trust is badly in need of diversification . 
Manville itself does n't rule out a restructuring . 
Though the ink is barely dry on its new , post-bankruptcy law structure , Bill Bullock , Manville 's head of investor relations , says the company is continually pondering `` whether there is a better way to be structured . 
Thus , analysts say , the trust is unlikely to do anything that would hurt Manville 's other shareholders . 
Even if there is no restructuring , Manville seems to be attractive long-term . 
Its stock , at 9 5\/8 , trades at about 8 1\/2 times estimated 1989 earnings -- an appropriately low multiple for a company with recession-sensitive customers . 
Its stock , at 9 5\/8 , trades at about 8 1\/2 times estimated 1989 earnings -- an appropriately low multiple for a company with recession-sensitive customers . Mr. Bullock says 45 % of revenues are tied to construction . 
They are , nonetheless , high on Manville 's management . 
So far , as a price-conscious shopper , Manville has n't bought much . 
The FTC 's request was `` not unusual '' and Emerson will make a `` full and prompt '' response , according to a spokesman . 
St. Louis-based Emerson and Stuttgart-based Bosch make electrical and electronic products , including power tools . 
If approved , the sale is expected to close by year 's end , with the spinoff occurring by the end of 1992 . 
Itel bought a 17 % stake in Sante Fe Pacific last year and Olympia & York later purchased about a 20 % stake 
The sale and spinoff of the real estate unit is the first phase of what could lead to the breakup of Santa Fe Pacific into free-standing companies for its railroad and energy operations , as well as real estate . 
The California pension fund 's planned investment in the real estate unit is unusual . 
Under the proposed plan , the fund would also lend Santa Fe Pacific Realty $ 75 million in the form of a note that would be convertible into additional shares of the realty company after the second year at the then-prevailing market price . 
For the last year , Santa Fe Pacific has redirected its real estate operations toward longer-term development of its properties , hurting profits that the parent had generated in the past from periodic sales from its portfolio . 
In a statement late yesterday , Santa Fe Pacific 's chairman , Robert D. Krebs , said that Santa Fe Pacific Realty would repay more than $ 500 million in debt owed to the parent before the planned spinoff . 
It was n't clear where Santa Fe Pacific expected to obtain the payment of more than $ 500 million , which would be well above the $ 400 million that California pension fund officials say they plan to provide . 
The realty unit might take on new debt or obtain additional investors , among other possibilities . 
It also holds nearly 40,000 acres of raw land with development potential , but under a previously announced strategy , the company has targeted building on 5,400 acres in California , Arizona and the Chicago area . 
The California pension fund , which has $ 16 billion already invested in real estate and mortgages , could be a valuable funding source for that development , although it is n't obliged to make further investments . 
Fund officials negotiated the final structure of the proposed deal with Santa Fe Pacific , but they were approached with the idea by real estate brokers JMB Realty Corp. of Chicago . 
After two mistrials , the stakes in the stock manipulation trial of GAF Corp. and its vice chairman , James T. Sherwin , have changed considerably . 
The GAF trials were viewed as previews of the government 's strength in its cases against Mr. Lewis and Mr. Bilzerian . 
But GAF 's bellwether role was short-lived . 
The first GAF trial ended in a mistrial after four weeks when U.S. District Judge Mary Johnson Lowe found that a prosecutor improperly , but unintentionally , withheld a document . 
Meanwhile , a federal jury found Mr. Bilzerian guilty on securities fraud and other charges in June . 
A month later , Mr. Jefferies was spared a jail term by a federal judge who praised him for helping the government . 
Nevertheless , the stakes are still high for the players directly involved in the GAF case . 
The mistrials have left the reputations of GAF , Mr. Sherwin and GAF Chairman Samuel Heyman in limbo . 
For Mr. Sherwin , a conviction could carry penalties of five years in prison and a $ 250,000 fine on each count . 
There is much speculation among attorneys not involved that the strategy of GAF 's attorney , Arthur Liman , and Mr. Sherwin 's counsel , Stephen Kaufman , will include testimony by Mr. Sherwin or Mr. Heyman . 
For now , defense attorneys are tight-lipped about their plans . 
The dispute pits two groups of claimants against each other . 
It also bars future suits against Robins company officials , members of the Robins family and Robins 's former insurer , Aetna Life & Casualty Co . 
Robins has been in proceedings under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code since August 1985 ; such proceedings give it protection from creditor lawsuits while it works out a plan for paying its debts . 
But Superfund also contains a criminal provision concerning the release of toxic substances into the environment . 
The government sought a criminal penalty because `` no cleanup is possible here . 
Another murderer on death row has appealed Mr. Simmons 's death sentence in a `` next friend '' capacity . 
In federal court in Manhattan , three defendants pleaded guilty to charges of fraud in connection with the sale of fake Salvador Dali lithographs . 
James Burke and Larry Evans , formerly owners of the now-defunct Barclay Gallery , and Prudence Clark , a Barclay sales representative , were charged with conducting high-pressure telephone sales in which they misrepresented cheap copies of Dali artwork as signed , limited-edition lithographs . 
The posters were sold for $ 1,300 to $ 6,000 , although the government says they had a value of only $ 53 to $ 200 apiece . 
Henry Pitman , the assistant U.S. attorney handling the case , said about 1,000 customers were defrauded and that Barclay 's total proceeds from the sales were $ 3.4 million . 
Attorneys for Messrs. Burke and Evans and Ms. Clarke said that although their clients admitted to making some misrepresentations in the sales , they had believed that the works were authorized by Mr. Dali , who died in January . 
Westamerica said Mr. Decker 's posts were assumed by David Payne , Westamerica 's chairman , who at 34 years of age becomes one of the youngest chief executives of a sizable bank in the country . 
Westamerica has about $ 1.3 billion of assets and is the largest independent bank in northern California . 
He was brought to the company in September 1988 after 15 years at Los Angeles-based First Interstate Bancorp . 
Though the bank is n't performing as well as some of its competitors in the lucrative California market , its condition has improved since Mr. Decker took over . 
For the full fiscal year , Varian posted a 13 % profit rise to $ 31.5 million , or $ 1.53 a share , up from $ 27.8 million , or $ 1.27 a share , last year . 
The financial-services firm , struggling since summer to avoid a bankruptcy-law filing after missing interest payments on about $ 1 billion of debt , will retain the right to regain the subsidiary . 
Also , the broker-dealer subsidiary , Integrated Resources Equity Corp. , was renamed Royal Alliance Associates Inc . 
In an interview , Mr. Krat said that based on criteria yet to be determined , he expects to distribute 49 % of Royal Alliance to the representatives , who sell Integrated 's insurance and mutual-fund products . 
The subsidiary is n't expected to be profitable for at least one year . 
If Integrated regains the unit , it would receive any profit the unit reports , even while the unit is independent . 
Integrated made its announcement after the market closed . 
In late New York trading yesterday , the dollar was quoted at 1.8470 marks , down from 1.8578 marks late Friday , and at 141.90 yen , down from 142.43 yen late Friday . 
Few market participants expect the U.S. unit to rally sharply on the news , if it turns out as expected . 
They note that when an unexpectedly sharp widening in the U.S. trade gap in August was reported earlier this month , hopes for a sustained narrowing of the trade deficit were dashed and sentiment gripped the market that the U.S. economy was losing its momentum . 
`` Everyone is extremely convinced the economy is slowing , '' says one senior New York dealer . 
U.S. durable goods orders are expected to show a decline of 1.2 % in September , according to economists . 
On the Commodity Exchange in New York , gold for current delivery settled at $ 367 an ounce , down 30 cents . 
The big apparel maker and retailer said that its net income in the latest quarter increased to $ 51.1 million , or 58 cents a share , from $ 31.7 million , or 36 cents a share , a year earlier . 
For the nine months , net income rose 48 % to $ 124.2 million , or $ 1.41 a share , from $ 83.8 million , or 96 cents a share a year earlier . 
In Tokyo , the Nikkei index added 99.14 to 35585.52 . 
Turnover remained relatively small . 
He said investors were picking individual stocks based on specific incentives and the likelihood of a wider price increase over the short term . 
The selective approach blurred themes such as domestic-demand issues , large-capitalization issues or high-technology shares , which had been providing at least some trading direction over the past few weeks , Mr. Wada said . 
Investors took profits on major construction shares , which advanced last week , shifting their attention to some midsize companies such as Aoki Corp. , Tobishima and Maeda . 
Teijin was up 15 at 936 , and Kyowa Hakko gained 30 to 1,770 . 
Teijin was up 15 at 936 , and Kyowa Hakko gained 30 to 1,770 . Mochida advanced 40 to 4,440 . 
Fujisawa continued to attract investors because of strong earning prospects stemming from a new immune control agent . 
`` It 's a case of the market being too high to buy and too afraid to sell , '' a senior dealer with Kleinwort Benson Securities said . 
The Financial Times 100-share index finished 10.6 points higher at 2189.7 . 
Share prices on the Frankfurt stock exchange closed narrowly mixed in quiet dealings after recovering most of their early losses . 
Brokers said the declines early in the day were partly caused by losses of the ruling Christian-Democratic Union in communal elections in the state of Baden-Wuerttemberg . 
Traders said the thin trading volume points to continued uncertainty by most investors following last Monday 's record 13 % loss . 
Banking stocks were the major gainers Monday amid hope that interest rates have peaked , as Deutsche Bank and Dresdner Bank added 4 marks each to 664 marks -LRB- $ 357 -RRB- and 326 marks , respectively . 
Shares closed higher in Hong Kong , Singapore and Manila , and were lower in Sydney , Seoul and Taipei . 
These rate indications are n't directly comparable 
The loss compares with net income of $ 162.1 million , or $ 2.01 a share , in the year-earlier period . 
Interest income rose 29 % to about $ 1.35 billion from $ 1.05 billion . 
Excluding the increase in loan-loss reserves , Bankers Trust said third-quarter net income would have increased 11 % to $ 180 million . 
The per-share loss for the Paramus , N.J. , food-services concern totaled seven cents , compared with earnings of 51 cents a share a year earlier . 
Nine-month net income dropped 47 % to $ 26.3 million , or 54 cents a share , from $ 49.7 million , or $ 1.02 a share . 
In the year-earlier period , the maker of diesel engines and parts had a narrower deficit of $ 17.6 million , or $ 1.84 a share , with sales of $ 808.3 million . 
Although Cummins 's stock stumbled last month after the company projected a `` substantial '' third-period loss , the stock also fell $ 1.125 in composite New York Stock Exchange trading yesterday , to $ 51.75 . 
For the nine months , the latest loss trimmed net income to $ 3.6 million , which after payment of preferred dividends represented a 31-cent loss a common share . 
Neither suit lists specific dollar claims , largely because damage assessment has n't yet been completed . 
Legal strategists say that damage claims against the oil giant and others could well exceed $ 1 billion . 
Exxon said in its suit that it will seek reimbursement from the state for that part of the cleanup costs and damage claims it says resulted from the state 's conduct . 
Craig Tillery , an Alaska assistant attorney general , said in an interview last night that Exxon 's accusations `` are not new . 
The oil company claims that it had permission from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency prior to the spill to use dispersant during such an incident at the discretion of the U.S. Coast Guard . 
Alaskan and Coast Guard officials say Exxon 's charges are n't relevant because tests conducted during the first two days following the spill showed that the dispersant was n't working anyway . 
`` I have no regrets about going forward , '' said Rep. Vic Fazio -LRB- D. , Calif. -RRB- , who sought later to play down the sometimes hostile tone of the long evening meeting . 
But in private meetings yesterday , Budget Director Richard Darman argued that only $ 1.5 billion in new federal appropriations are needed to supplement existing resources . 
`` Everybody appreciates that it is a national disaster and that we 've got to address it , '' said Mr. Darman , who came to the Capitol to meet with Mr. Whitten and California lawmakers before the committee session . 
Although this White House pressure was clearly a factor among committee Republicans , no single influence was greater than Mr. Whitten . 
When Mr. Fazio offered the California-backed $ 3.84 billion plan , Mr. Whitten insisted that the full 14 pages be read aloud by the panel 's clerk to underscore the range of legislative changes also sought by the delegation . 
More important than money in many cases are waivers California is seeking on current restrictions covering federal highway funds , such as a $ 100 million cap on how much any single state can receive in emergency funds in a year . 
A member in the House leadership and skilled legislator , Mr. Fazio nonetheless found himself burdened not only by California 's needs but by Hurricane Hugo amendments he accepted in a vain effort to build support in the panel . 
California 's high-priced real estate puts it in an awkward position , too . 
In the year 's first six months , Kurzweil had a loss of $ 6.9 million on sales of $ 11.2 million . 
Amtech , which makes an automated process system that improves the yields of semiconductor manufacturers , said profit for the year ended Sept. 30 rose to more than $ 800,000 from $ 446,000 last year . 
In a foreign-policy address before the Soviet legislature , the foreign minister conceded that the radar station in Krasnoyarsk breached the superpower Anti-Ballistic Missile treaty and said it would be dismantled . 
Hungary declared itself a democracy and for the first time openly commemorated the anniversary of the 1956 anti-Stalinist uprising that was crushed by the Soviet Union . 
The space shuttle Atlantis landed at a desert air strip at Edwards Air Force Base , Calif. , ending a five-day mission that dispatched the Jupiter-bound Galileo space probe . 
The five astronauts returned to Earth about three hours early because high winds had been predicted at the landing site . 
Explosions shook a Phillips Petroleum Co. plastics plant near Pasadena , Texas , hurling debris and causing a fire visible from 10 miles away . 
More than 100 people were injured , and a number of workers were missing . 
The White House said Bush is conferring with leaders of the Senate Intelligence Committee to ease differences over guidelines for CIA agents . 
NATO defense ministers are expected to call for a reduction in nuclear forces in Europe when the alliance 's nuclear planning group convenes a two-day session today in Portugal . 
Iran 's President Rafsanjani offered to help gain freedom for Western hostages in Lebanon , but said the assistance was contingent on U.S. aid in resolving the cases of three Iranians kidnapped in Lebanon in 1982 or the release of frozen Iranian assets . 
PLO leader Arafat asked Egypt to seek clarifications from the U.S. on Secretary of State Baker 's plan for Mideast peace talks , an aide to Egyptian President Mubarak said . 
A year earlier , CMS posted profit of $ 1.1 million , or 13 cents a share , on sales of $ 48 million . 
Property Capital Trust said it dropped its plan to liquidate because it was n't able to realize the value it had expected . 
Property Capital , which is based in Boston , had told shareholders it expected to distribute at least $ 21 a share , or $ 229 million , in a liquidation , based on an expected asset sale price of $ 290 million or more . 
Included in the results was an adjustment to the Dallas-based company 's tax rate that reduced net income by about 10 cents a share , or approximately $ 2 million . 
For the nine months , the company had net income of $ 15.1 million , or 74 cents a share , up 98 % from $ 7.6 million , or 38 cents a share last year . 
The California Student Aid Commission took the action Oct. 15 after a government audit cited National Technical Schools for having courses too short to be eligible for the educational loan program and having a student drop-out rate far in excess of federal standards , and it alleged other serious violations of law and regulations . 
The court set a hearing on the emergency action for Oct. 30 . 
Allied-Signal reported that net rose 1.7 % to $ 121 million , or 81 cents a share , from $ 119 million , or 80 cents a share , the year earlier . 
For the nine months , the Morris Township , N.J.-based company , with businesses in aerospace , automotive products and engineered materials , earned $ 413 million , or $ 2.77 cents a share , up 15 % from $ 359 million , or $ 2.40 a share . 
He also cited unfavorable foreign-exchange rates and a lower tax rate . 
Legent Corp. said it expects to report net income between $ 6.4 million and $ 6.9 million , or between 32 cents and 34 cents a share , for its fourth quarter ended Sept. 30 . 
For the fiscal year , the company said it anticipates reporting earnings of $ 23 million , or about $ 1.15 a share , including a charge of about $ 5.9 million , or 22 cents a share , related to the merger that created Legent out of Duquesne Systems Inc. and Morino Inc. in March 1989 . 
Of the 17.6 million rights units issued , just under 17 million were exercised before the Oct. 10 expiration of the offering , the insurance holding company said . 
UNITED AIR 'S PARENT quashed any prospects for an immediate revival of the labor-management buy-out , saying UAL should remain independent for now . Also , UAL Chairman Stephen Wolf pulled out of the buy-out effort to focus on running the company . 
Stock prices fell and bonds rose as worries mounted about the economy and the junk bond market . 
The Dow Jones industrials sank 26.23 points , to 2662.91 . 
The turmoil in junk bonds may last for years , investors and traders say . 
Exxon 's profit fell 9 % in the third quarter , hurt by sagging results at two of its three main businesses . 
Phillips and Arco posted declines . 
Ashland had a loss . 
Ogilvy 's chairman , Kenneth Roman , is leaving to take a top post at American Express . 
Drexel 's efforts to settle its legal troubles are being resisted by at least 10 states . 
The department distributed the revisions and clarifications to U.S. attorneys around the country this summer as part of a routine process of updating prosecutorial guidelines , Mr. Runkel said . 
The RICO law has come under criticism from some defendants and defense lawyers . 
The department 's most significant clarification of existing RICO policy is a directive to prosecutors that they should seek to seize assets from defendants `` in proportion '' to the nature of the alleged offense , Mr. Runkel said . 
`` That means that if the offense deals with one part of the business , you do n't attempt to seize the whole business 
But instead of thanks , Sen. Cranston was treated with cool formality . 
At the first day of the House Banking Committee 's hearings last week , William Seidman , chairman of the Resolution Trust Corp. , the federal agency created to sell sick thrifts , said the agency is investigating whether Lincoln made illegal political contributions . 
Unlike many lawmakers , Chairman Gonzalez says he considers intervening with regulators to be improper . 
And he has attached himself to the Lincoln story tenaciously . 
But Chairman Gonzalez is a genuine maverick . 
Mr. Gonzalez is also a stickler for ethical standards who refuses to accept honorariums and who believes in conducting official business in the open . 
The immediate target of Rep. Gonzalez 's inquiry is Danny Wall , chairman of the Office of Thrift Supervision . 
Mr. Gonzalez expressed concern over a report that the two had been summoned to Washington by Mr. Wall last week to discuss their testimony in advance . 
Mr. Wall , however , is a self-proclaimed `` child of the Senate '' and former staff director of its Banking Committee . 
An inquiry into his handling of Lincoln S&L inevitably will drag in Sen. Cranston and the four others , Sens. Dennis DeConcini -LRB- D. , Ariz. -RRB- , John McCain -LRB- R. , Ariz. -RRB- , John Glenn -LRB- D. , Ohio -RRB- and Donald Riegle -LRB- D. , Mich . -RRB- . 
They all attended a meeting in April 1987 questioning why a federal audit of Lincoln S&L had dragged on for two years . 
This is raising eyebrows . 
`` When I first got a glimpse at the witness list , I could n't believe that they were going to go ahead and do this , '' says Michael Waldman , director of Congress Watch , a consumer group . 
All the senators say they merely were trying to ensure fairness for a constituent . 
Chairman Gonzalez expresses sympathy for Sen. Riegle , his counterpart as chairman of the Senate Banking Committee . 
They were willing to trade important provisions in the bailout legislation to preserve Mr. Wall 's job and to avoid a reconfirmation hearing in which he would be called upon to testify about Lincoln S&L . 
At the time , Mr. Gonzalez said several senators told him that they `` could get some roadblocks out of the way if there could be some understanding on Garn 's insistence on Wall . '' 
Now Mr. Gonzalez is holding the equivalent of reconfirmation hearings anyway , under the guise of the Lincoln investigation . 
Even some House Banking Committee members could suffer from the fallout . 
Mr. Keating raised $ 20,000 for Rep. Doug Barnard 's 1986 re-election campaign while the Georgia Democrat was taking his side against regulators who wanted to curb risky investments and wholesale deposit brokering . 
But the chairman 's supporters have the upper hand as federal regulators press a $ 1.1 billion fraud suit against Mr. Keating and others . 
But the witness , William Crawford , California 's chief state thrift regulator , denies saying that . 
When Anne Volokh and her family immigrated to the U.S. 14 years ago , they started life in Los Angeles with only $ 400 . 
They 'd actually left the Soviet Union with $ 480 , but during a stop in Italy Ms. Volokh dropped $ 80 on a black velvet suit . 
Not surprisingly , she quickly adapted to the American way . 
Three months after she arrived in L.A. she spent $ 120 she did n't have for a hat . 
Since then she has become wealthy . 
Her husband and older son -- a computer prodigy profiled in The Wall Street Journal in 1981 , when he was 13 -- run a software company with expected sales this year of $ 10 million . 
`` No , darling , '' she said recently in her fluent , slightly affected English , during a trip East to promote Movieline 's national expansion . 
`` You have to be born with it . 
I used to wear hats in Russia , but I had to make them and my dresses . 
Now 48 years old , Ms. Volokh has definite ideas about what she wants . 
At Movieline , she wants `` specific paragraphing , specific tone , a specific attitude -- bright and bold and tongue-in-cheek . '' 
In restaurants -LRB- in this case , the Russian Samovar , a New York restaurant operated by and for Soviet emigres -RRB- , she did n't want the chirpy , folkish music bouncing through the room . 
That done , Ms. Volokh spoke with rampant eloquence about the many attributes she feels she was born with : an understanding of food , business , Russian culture , human nature , and parties . 
`` Parties are rather a state of mind , '' she said , pausing only to taste and pass judgment on the Georgian shashlik -LRB- `` a little well done , but very good '' -RRB- . 
`` If you are born to give parties , you give parties . 
Even in Russia we managed to give parties . 
As publisher of a magazine devoted to movies as guideposts for fashion and other fantasies , Ms. Volokh sees her party-giving as an important part of business . 
She has thrown extravagant soirees for crowds of people , but prefers more intimate gatherings . 
I like rather tea , because it is at the end of the day . '' 
She serves high Russian tea , at 5 p.m . 
`` It 's supposed to be later but I just moved it . 
She also frequently invites directors , producers , actors , writers and other show business people for `` coffee and clips in the pleasure dome . '' 
Guests bring movies on tape , and show their favorite three-to-five minute segments on the screen that unrolls from the ceiling of the Volokhs ' art-nouveau library -LRB- `` the pleasure dome '' -RRB- . 
The idea for Movieline actually was dreamed up by an old friend of the Volokhs , Boris Krutchensky -LRB- who has the title of co-publisher -RRB- , and Laurie Halpern Smith , now the magazine 's co-editor . 
Mr. Krutchensky approached Ms. Volokh five years ago about backing the publication , which started out as a listing guide . 
`` Anne does n't believe in blandness , '' said Ms. Smith . 
And she has this inexhaustible energy . 
In fact , Ms. Volokh was n't just a rich lady who needed a hobby . 
Back in the Soviet Union she was a respected journalist , writing a weekly column about the national cuisine for Sunday Izvestia . 
`` I do n't trust people who do n't eat , '' said Ms. Volokh , though she herself stopped eating lunch a few years ago to drop 25 pounds . 
`` Look at Dostoevski and Kafka . 
Tolstoy 's characters eat , Pushkin 's , Gogol 's . '' 
In her cookbook , which Macmillan is bringing out in soft cover this month -LRB- with the blini recipe revised so it works -RRB- , she introduces each chapter with appropriate quotations from Russian literature : Pushkin on blini , Goncharov on piroghi . 
In life , she offers practical dieting advice : `` Divide your meals into important and unimportant . 
In a great restaurant , do n't deprive yourself . 
She was the child of relative privilege . 
Her mother was a translator 
`` But we should n't leave out political reasons , number one . 
You try to maintain your dignity under difficult circumstances . 
By 1973 , after their second child was born , it had become clear to Ms. Volokh and her husband Vladimir , a computer scientist , that they wanted to leave the U.S.S.R . 
The wait was miserable . 
Mr. Volokh was fired from his job , and had to endure hours of organized verbal abuse from his co-workers , accusations of sabotage and counterrevolutionary activities . 
They did n't . 
Their visa came in relatively short order , and they moved to Los Angeles . 
Mr. Volokh soon found work in his field , but Ms. Volokh refused the obvious and available occupation - as translator for a Russian who spoke fluent English . 
`` That 's always looking back , '' she said . 
`` I wanted to be in business . '' 
On the way to that goal , she received her first U.S. paycheck for proofreading a book of Polish poetry , attended secretarial school , then went to work for a fund-raising organization . 
Now Movieline is located in the same building as Vesoft . 
`` Things work out unexpectedly in life , '' said Ms. Volokh . 
William D. Forrester , president of the U.S.-U.S.S.R. Trade and Economic Council , has a warning for U.S. companies trying to do business in the Soviet Union . 
`` It 's an extremely complex market , and you have to be prepared to make a big commitment , '' Mr. Forrester says . 
Undeterred by such words of caution , corporate America is flocking to Moscow , lured by a huge untapped market and Mikhail Gorbachev 's attempt to overhaul the Soviet economy . 
Doing business with the Russians , once the pursuit of a handful of hardened veterans , has become the goal of such major companies as General Motors Corp. , Federal Express Corp. and Procter & Gamble Co. , as well as a cluster of smaller firms . 
But while U.S. interest may be big and growing , the difficulties that have stymied deals in the past show no sign of abating . 
Executives say Mr. Gorbachev 's moves to break up the government 's foreign trade monopoly have created uncertainties as well as opportunities . 
Growing public fears about the Soviet environment is one new factor affecting some joint-venture plans . 
Over the past two years , Soviet ministries have been talking to international firms , including Occidental Petroleum Co. and Combustion Engineering Inc. of the U.S. , Montedison S.p.A. of Italy and several Japanese groups , about jointly building and operating several big petrochemical plants . 
Whatever the difficulties , Mr. Gorbachev remains committed to increasing foreign trade . 
Talking to a small group of U.S. executives afterwards , Mr. Gorbachev appeared impatient for a big expansion in U.S.-Soviet trade , which now amounts to a meager $ 3 billion annually . 
Judging by the crush at the exhibition , deprived Soviet consumers are more than ready for U.S. products . 
Some U.S. products are filtering into the Soviet market under an emergency import program . 
Both Colgate and Procter & Gamble have received big orders for toothpaste , soap and detergents . 
But the current Soviet purchasing spree may be a one-time affair . 
The goal of most U.S. firms -- joint ventures -- remains elusive . 
International competition for the few Soviet goods that can be sold on world markets is heating up , however . 
Seeking to overcome the currency problems , Mr. Giffen 's American Trade Consortium , which comprises Chevron Corp. , RJR , Johnson & Johnson , Eastman Kodak Co. , and Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. , has concocted an elaborate scheme to share out dollar earnings , largely from the revenues of a planned Chevron oil project . 
Some U.S. entrepreneurs operate on a smaller scale . 
One group seeks to publish a U.S.-Soviet medical journal in conjunction with the U.S.S.R. Ministry of Health . 
`` We found a market niche , '' Mr. Mills boasts . 
No reason for the request was given . 
The decision to accept Credit Agricole 's bid , valued at 283.3 billion lire -LRB- $ 207.4 million -RRB- , came after a stormy weekend meeting . 
Nuovo Banco 's second largest shareholder , the Fiat S.p.A.-controlled investment concern , Gemina S.p.A. , fought to have Generali 's offer approved . 
The linkup with Credit Agricole will give Nuovo Banco its first foreign presence since it was formed from the wreck of the old Banco Ambrosiano , which collapsed amid scandal after the death of Chairman Roberto Calvi in 1982 . 
Gemina said in a statement that `` it reserves the right to take any action to protect its rights as a member of the syndicate . '' 
The sales are expected to raise more than 600 million Australian dollars -LRB- US$ 462.2 million -RRB- , Mr. Skase said . 
Mr. Skase also said the restructuring plan calls for the merger of Qintex Australia with Qintex Ltd. , which owns 55 % of Qintex Australia . 
Friday , Qintex Entertainment Inc. , a 43%-owned U.S. affiliate , filed for protection from creditor lawsuits under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code . 
Mr. Skase 's statement was addressed to the stock exchange and appeared to be a response to the inquiry . 
Before its shares were suspended from trading , Qintex Australia plunged to 16 Australian cents -LRB- 12 U.S. cents -RRB- a share yesterday from 33 Australian cents Friday . 
Qintex Australia has n't yet reported results for the fiscal year ended July 31 . 
In his statement , Mr. Skase said preliminary accounts showed that group profit before interest , tax and depreciation `` will exceed A$ 170 million . '' 
Qintex Australia paid the management company A$ 32.6 million in the latest fiscal year . 
Non-executive directors of Qintex Australia , who must approve payments to the senior executives , balked at the amount . 
National Semiconductor Corp. and a start-up named Ramtron Corp. plan to start shipping so-called ferroelectric memories , which can remember data for at least 10 years without any current flowing to them . 
Once production hurdles are overcome , the chips could take over a significant part of the market . 
Witnesses often must travel long distances to give face-to-face depositions before lawyers and court reporters . 
That could change , thanks to lower long-distance rates and cheaper electronics . 
JAPAN 'S MISUSE of U.S. patents has been a sore point for American chip makers . 
Hitachi made the reverse-engineering charges in an amendment to a counterclaim filed in a federal district court in Texas after Motorola sued Hitachi for patent violation . 
An N.V . Philips unit has created a computer system that processes video images 3,000 times faster than conventional systems . 
The results , which represented the fifth consecutive quarter of flat-to-lower earnings for the big electronics retailer , disappointed analysts and traders . 
Net for the quarter was $ 62.8 million , or 73 cents a share , down from $ 64.9 million , or 72 cents a share , a year earlier . 
The company said earnings would have increased if it had n't been actively repurchasing its shares , thus increasing its interest expense and reducing its interest income . 
`` Radio Shack continues to be lackluster , '' said Dennis Telzrow , analyst with Eppler , Guerin & Turner in Dallas . 
He said Tandy `` has done a decent job '' increasing sales by manufacturing computers for others and expanding sales of its Grid Systems Corp. subsidiary , which sells computers to bigger businesses , but `` it 's not enough to offset the problems at Radio Shack . '' 
As a result , Mr. Telzrow said he cut his fiscal 1990 per-share earnings estimate for Tandy to $ 4.05 from $ 4.20 . 
Tandy has added several new products to that line , including a laptop computer priced around $ 1,000 , and is focusing its advertising on the easy-to-use software that is packaged with its machines . 
`` They 've been promising 13 % to 15 % growth based on the strategic moves they 've made , '' he said . 
Mr. Joseph conceded the junk market was in disarray , according to people familiar with the discussion . 
Amid the market disorder , even Drexel , which has the widest and most loyal following of junk bond investors , is pulling in its horns . 
For many money managers , the past four months have been humiliating . 
In the third quarter , for example , junk bonds -- those with less than an investment-grade rating -- showed negative returns , the only major sector of the bond market to do so . 
The junk market , which mushroomed to $ 200 billion from less than $ 2 billion at the start of the decade , has been declining for months as issuers have stumbled under the weight of hefty interest payments . 
The fragile market received its biggest jolt last month from Campeau Corp. , which created its U.S. retailing empire with more than $ 3 billion in junk financing . 
Campeau developed a cash squeeze that caused it to be tardy on some interest payments and to put its prestigious Bloomingdale 's department store chain up for sale . 
In an interview , Mr. Joseph says his dinner discussion with the Prudential executives acknowledged problems for junk . 
`` What I thought I was saying is that the market is troubled but still viable and , appropriately enough , quite quality-conscious , which is not at all bad , '' he says . 
What has jolted many junk buyers is the sudden realization that junk bonds can not necessarily be bought and sold with the ease of common stocks and many investment-grade bonds . 
At closely held Deltec Securities Corp. , junk bond money managers Amy K. Minella and Hannah H. Strasser say the problems of the junk market go deeper than a temporary malaise . 
Investors , trying to raise cash , have sold `` large liquid issues '' such as RJR Holdings Corp. and Kroger 
Meanwhile , Prudential , the nation 's largest insurer and the biggest investor in junk bonds , has seen the value of its junk bond portfolio drop to $ 6.5 billion from $ 7 billion since August because of falling junk prices . 
`` We certainly do have a lack of liquidity here , and it 's something to be concerned about , '' says James A. Gregoire , a managing director . 
`` I have no reason to think things will get worse , but this market has a knack for surprising us . 
And the risks are n't appropriate for us , '' he says . 
The string of big junk bond defaults , which have been a major cause of the market 's problems this year , probably will persist , some analysts say . 
Mr. Asquith , whose study on junk bond defaults caused a furor on Wall Street when it was disclosed last April , says this year 's junk bond defaults already show a high correlation with his own findings . 
`` Obviously , we got a lot more smoke than fire from the people who told us the market was n't so risky , '' says Bradford Cornell , professor of finance at University of California 's Anderson Graduate School of Management in Los Angeles . 
Mr. Cornell has just completed a study that finds that the risks and returns of junk bonds are less than on common stocks but more than on investment-grade bonds . 
Still , the list of troubled Drexel bond offerings dwarfs that of any firm on Wall Street , as does its successful offerings . 
`` Helen Boehm has a way with names , '' says James Revson , a gossip columnist for Newsday -LRB- and son of Joseph Revson , a founder of Revlon -RRB- . 
But the truth is that almost everyone , from real-estate agents to city fathers , name-drops ; and a surprising number of people have an ancient uncle who claims he lived next door to the cartoonist who did the Katzenjammer Kids . 
`` Name-dropping is pervasive and getting more so as society becomes more complex and alienating , '' says Herbert Freudenberger , a New York psychoanalyst , with a high-powered clientele . 
`` It can be an avenue of entrance to a certain sector of society ... . 
`` I was having a drink in Sardi 's , when all of a sudden I saw a woman 's backside coming up the steps on the second floor and she was wearing sequined slacks . 
Some people must drop names -- call it an irresistible impulse . 
Name-dropping recently helped Mr. Houston-Montgomery crash a party Fame magazine threw for 100 of the 2,809 people mentioned in the diaries of the late Andy Warhol . 
`` I guess I might have asked Beauregard to leave , but he drops so many good names , we decided to let him stay , '' says Steven Greenberg , publisher of Fame . 
Mr. Revson , the gossip columnist , says there are people who actually plan whose names they are going to drop before attending a party . 
These droppers do n't flaunt only their friendships with the Trumps , Brooke Astor or Georgette Mosbacher . 
`` They even drop semi-obscure names like Wolfgang Flottl , whom everybody these days apparently has heard of but no one really knows , '' says Mr. Revson . 
But name-dropping has other benefits , often civic . 
Take Cleveland . 
It has gotten a bad rep because its once heavily polluted Cuyahoga River caught fire , because former Mayor Ralph Perk set his hair on fire with an acetylene torch and because its proposed Rock 'n' Roll Hall of Fame was recently refused an urban-development grant . 
Mr. Miller notes that actor Paul Newman 's family owned a sporting-goods store in Cleveland , that the late actress Margaret Hamilton , who played the bad witch in `` The Wizard Of Oz , '' once ran a nursery school in Cleveland and that comedian Bob Hope 's father , a stonemason , once worked on a church next to Severence Hall , Cleveland 's main concert hall . 
In Hollywood , an average family can gain cachet from moving into a home vacated by the famous or near famous . 
`` Why we even just sold a three-bedroom house in Van Nuys and were able to keep the price firm in a weak real-estate market by noting that the original Lone Ranger lived there , '' says David Rambo , a sales associate with Jon Douglas Co. , a Los Angeles real-estate agency . 
Mr. Rambo says that a 3.2-acre property overlooking the San Fernando Valley is priced at $ 4 million because the late actor Erroll Flynn once lived there . 
And some even do it with malice aforethought . 
Len Kessler , a financial publicist in New York , sometimes uses it to get the attention of journalists who try to avoid him . 
There are , of course , obvious dangers to blatant , unsubstantiated name-dropping . 
Jeffry Thal , a publicity agent for the Lantz Office in Los Angeles , warns that dropping the wrong name labels the dropper as a fake and a fraud . 
Mr. Thal says that Elizabeth Taylor , a client , `` hates being called ` Liz . ' ... 
If directors or producers phone me and say they know ` Liz , ' I know they 've never met her . 
John Spencer Churchill , a nephew of the late Sir Winston Churchill , former prime minister of Great Britain , is n't that impressed with most name-droppers he meets . 
Currently writing his memoirs , Mr. Churchill , an artist , tells how tycoons such as the late Jean Paul Getty , the oil billionnaire , were , in fact , known only by one initial , their last . 
`` When you 're at the club , you ask whether they 've spoken to ` G . ' 
But no one else does . 
Twenty years ago , in the infancy of suburban sprawl , just a handful of dealerships were here . 
Alongside such long-familiar names as Chevrolet , Ford and Dodge are nameplates that did n't exist until three years ago : Acura , Sterling , Hyundai . 
And especially , as the Cobb Parkway strip attests , in cars . 
For car marketers , it has become a much tougher battle to keep loyal customers from defecting to one of the new makes on the block . 
Malcolm MacDougall , vice chairman of the Jordan , McGrath , Case & Taylor advertising agency in New York , calls the proliferation `` nameplate mania . '' 
He says the number of automobile choices is causing stress among consumers today , and that people will simply ignore new models that lack a well-defined image . 
He says it 's important for a new make to be as distinctive as possible while still retaining links to the parent company 's quality image . 
Some auto executives believe the benefits of more choice outweigh the drawbacks . 
Now , the 55-year-old car shopper is zeroing in on a full-sized van , figuring that it 's just the thing to haul nine grandchildren and pull a boat at the same time . 
Market segmentation in cars is n't new , but it 's far more extensive than when Alfred P. Sloan Jr. conceived the idea 50 years ago . 
Now there are many cars for every purse and purpose . 
Just four years ago , GM planners divided the combined car and truck market into seven segments . 
The number of makes has mushroomed because the U.S. is the world 's biggest and richest market for automobiles 
The number of makes has mushroomed because the U.S. is the world 's biggest and richest market for automobiles ; virtually every auto maker wants to sell here . 
Detroit tries to counter the foreign invasion with new brands of its own . 
GM launched the Geo marque this year to sell cars made in partnership with foreign auto makers , and next year GM 's long-awaited Saturn cars will make their debut . 
When consumers have so many choices , brand loyalty is much harder to maintain . 
Which cars do Americans favor most these days ? 
It 's hard to generalize , but age seems to be the best predictor . 
Adults under age 30 like sports cars , luxury cars , convertibles and imports far more than their elders do . 
Perhaps most striking , 35 % of households headed by people aged 18 to 44 have at least one foreign car . 
Generally , imports appeal most to Americans who live in the West and are well-educated , affluent and , especially , young . 
Such preferences persist even though many Americans believe differences between imported and domestic cars are diminishing . 
Only 58 % of Americans now believe that foreign cars get better gas mileage than domestic models , the Journal survey found , down from 68 % in 1987 . 
People in the automotive business disagree over how susceptible younger Americans are to brand switching . 
But out on Cobb Parkway , Ted Negas sees it differently . 
The battle for customer loyalty is evident along the Cobb Parkway strip . 
Ed Voyles Olds recently established a special section in the service department for owners whose cars are less than a year old , so they get quicker service . 
Manufacturers , too , are stretching further to lure buyers . 
Cadillac may be on to something . 
Some 60 % of the survey respondents said they would buy anti-lock brakes even if they carry a medium or high price tag . 
Some 60 % of the survey respondents said they would buy anti-lock brakes even if they carry a medium or high price tag . More than 50 % felt the same way about air bags . 
But even a little appeal has a lot of attraction these days . 
GM 's Pontiac division is offering a turbo-charged V-6 engine on its Grand Prix model , even though it expects to sell only about 4,000 cars equipped with that option . 
Americans spent more than $ 190 billion on new cars and trucks last year , and just 1 % of that market exceeded Polaroid Co. 's sales of $ 1.86 billion . 
Edward Carlson awoke one morning last month to find eight holes in his front yard where his prized miniature palms , called cycads , once stood . 
Days later , the thieves returned and dug out more , this time adding insult to injury . 
`` Evidently , somebody has realized it 's easy money to steal these things , '' says Loran Whitelock , a research associate specializing in cycads at the Los Angeles State and County Arboretum . 
Police suspect that the criminals , who dig up the plants in the dead of night , are selling them to nurseries or landscapers . 
Thieves are going to find `` anybody who has enough bucks to plant these things in their front yard , '' says William Morrissey , an investigator with the police department in Garden Grove , Calif. , where five such thefts have been reported in the past several weeks . 
But for those Californians who want exotic gardens out front where neighbors can appreciate them , there 's always Harold Smith 's approach . 
A daily average of 20.9 million shares traded in program strategies in September , the second-highest level ever . 
Average daily trading volume in June of 180.3 million shares was considerably higher than in September . 
The top stock-index arbitrage firm last month was Morgan Stanley & Co . 
The derivative suit is similar to a class-action complaint filed earlier this year . 
Although an Imperial spokesman said the company had n't yet been served with the derivative suit , he reiterated the company 's statement that it would vigorously defend itself against the class-action suit . 
`` The industry has been waiting with bated breath for the machines to come along , '' says David Niles , president of Eleven Twenty Five Productions Inc. , a New York pioneer in high-definition programming . 
Japanese electronic giants , such as Sony Corp. and Hitachi Ltd. , have focused almost entirely on HDTV hardware , and virtually ignored software or programs shot in high-definition . And only a handful of small U.S. companies are engaged in high-definition software development . 
Kodak says its new CCD HDTV converter will help alleviate the problem by allowing programmers and broadcasters to convert movies and television programs shot in 35mm motion-picture film into high-definition video . 
And the potential market is tremendous , industry experts say . 
If HDTV takes off in the U.S. , there will be demand for some 4,000 to 5,000 HDTV converters , known in the industry as telecines . 
And Mr. Niles , the program producer , contends that Kodak 's move is `` a sound marketing decision . 
Indeed , the stakes are high . 
But the financial rewards are n't expected soon , nor are they guaranteed . 
Experts estimate the first sets of HDTVs wo n't be available for another five to 10 years , and will probably retail for more than $ 3,000 each in today 's dollars . 
Nevertheless , Kodak could n't risk letting HDTV turn its motion-picture film business into a dinosaur . 
Garish neon pachinko marquees blaze from the main streets and narrow alleys of cities and towns across the country . 
If that money were being taxed , it could bring the government a badly needed several trillion yen . 
Then , in 1988 , a proposal to keep better track of income by selling prepaid cards for pachinko was fielded in parliament . 
In August , a conservative weekly magazine reported that a pachinko industry organization donated money to Japan Socialist Party members . 
But the press kept it alive 
The JSP admitted Oct. 13 that its members received about eight million yen from the pachinko organization , and charged LDP members with receiving 125 million yen -LRB- $ 880,000 -RRB- and other opposition parties with taking about 2.5 million yen . 
On Friday , the chief cabinet secretary announced that eight cabinet ministers had received five million yen from the industry , including 450,000 yen -LRB- $ 3,175 -RRB- by Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu . 
Direct donations from either of the residents ' organizations would be illegal because the groups are defined as foreign , but both groups deny making direct donations . 
When Robert McDuffie was 14 , he got a chance to play in the starting lineup for his high school basketball team in Macon , Ga . 
Unfortunately , his mother had tickets for a recital by Itzhak Perlman the same night , and she was adamant about his attending . 
Today , it 's obvious that the brawny , six-foot , one-inch musician made the right choice . 
He 's currently in the midst of a 17-city U.S. tour with Yehudi Menuhin and the Warsaw Sinfonia , with stops including Charleston , S.C . -LRB- Oct. 25 -RRB- , Sarasota , Fla . -LRB- Oct. 28 -RRB- , Tampa , Fla . -LRB- Oct. 29 -RRB- and Miami -LRB- Oct. 31 -RRB- . 
During the late 1970s , he was part of a musical `` brat pack '' -- a group of budding virtuosos who studied at the Juilliard School with the noted pedagogue Dorothy DeLay . 
`` He taught me how to play like a gypsy , '' jokes the musician . 
She only put her foot down twice , '' he continues . 
`` In my freshman year , my roommate was known as a party animal . 
She thought I was n't getting my practicing done . '' 
The second incident took place after Mr. McDuffie gave an ambitious student recital and was feeling rather pleased with himself . 
`` We listened to the Chausson ` Poeme , ' '' he recalls , `` and she said , ` You hear the first note , that B-flat ? 
`` That 's the most important experience I 've had with any teacher , '' he says , `` because she taught me how to listen . 
It was also at Juilliard that Mr. McDuffie discovered his predilection for conservative , 20th-century American composers such as David Diamond and Samuel Barber . 
If a conductor is sensitive enough to bring down the orchestra -LCB- volume -RCB- at that point , it makes the piece magical . 
I do n't know why Barber never told anybody else . 
Since leaving Juilliard , Mr. McDuffie has made some smart moves and some controversial ones . 
Mr. McDuffie 's sweet tone , heartfelt lyricism and rhythmic punch make him an ideal interpreter of both works . 
Aided by the fluid playing of the St. Louis Symphony under Leonard Slatkin 's direction , this `` Serenade '' really swings . 
At Avery Fisher Hall here , Mr. McDuffie was heard recently with Mr. Menuhin and the Warsaw Sinfonia in more conventional fare -- Bruch 's overwrought `` Violin Concerto in G Minor . '' 
His performance was so effusive and driven that the phrases rarely breathed . 
Whatever he plays , Mr. McDuffie finds satisfaction in the music itself -- `` something greater out there than me , '' as he puts it during an interview at the Manhattan apartment he shares with wife , Camille , a literary publicist . 
`` A normal person did not write the Beethoven ` Violin Concerto , ' '' he declares . 
`` Even when I hear it played badly , I 'm still humbled by the piece . 
A lot of observers think so , and , if they 're right , the whole economy as well as the spendthrifts among us could be hurt . 
The worriers cite some worrisome trends . 
However , these figures do n't seem to worry Thomas A. Durkin , an economist at the Federal Reserve Board . 
In a paper presented at the recent annual meeting of the National Association of Business Economists in San Francisco , Mr. Durkin comments that `` installment credit always grows rapidly in cyclical advances , and growth in this cycle is very typical of earlier experiences . '' 
But what about the debt burden ? 
The chart below shows why -LRB- see accompanying illustration -- WSJ Oct. 23 , 1989 -RRB- . 
Moreover , the burden of consumer credit payments relative to disposable income may be `` lower in this cycle than earlier , '' Mr. Durkin says . 
And much home-equity credit is used conservatively . 
In fact , the current weakness in auto buying and department-store sales and the gradual upturn in the household saving rate suggest that consumers , conservative as ever , are already clutching their purses a bit more tightly . 
The 67-year-old maker of brassieres , panties , and lingerie enjoys one of the best-known brand images , but its financial profile is closely guarded by members of the founding family . 
`` There are very few companies that can boast of such a close-knit group , '' says Robert A. Brawer , 52 years old , recently named president , succeeding Beatrice Coleman , his mother-in-law , who remains chairman . 
The company sells image . 
The Maidenform name `` is part of American pop culture , '' says Joan Sinopoli , account supervisor of the campaign by Levine , Huntley , Schmidt & Beaver , a New York ad firm . 
`` The intimate apparel industry is perceived to be a growth industry and clearly -LCB- Maidenform -RCB- is a force to be reckoned with , '' says David S. Leibowitz , a special situations analyst at American Securities Corp. in New York . 
Although Mr. Brawer 's appointment as president was long expected , the move on Sept. 25 precipitated the resignation of Alan Lesk as senior vice president of sales and merchandising . 
But Maidenform officials say that after spending 24 years at Maidenform , Mr. Lesk , 48 , made it clear he wanted the top job . 
Top officers insist Maidenform 's greatest strength is its family ownership . 
`` You ca n't go anywhere in this company and find an organizational chart , '' one delights . 
`` It is fun competing as a private company , '' Mr. Brawer says . 
Other major players in intimate apparel apparently feel the same way . 
Buy-out offers for Maidenform are n't infrequent , says Executive Vice President David C. Masket , but they are n't taken very seriously . 
The company could command a good price in the market . 
Mr. Brawer , along with Mrs. Coleman and her daughter , Elizabeth , an attorney who is vice chairman , are the family members involved in the operations of Maidenform , which employs about 5,000 . 
Executives say Mrs. Coleman is very involved in the day-to-day operations , especially product development . 
While the company has always been family-run , Mr. Brawer is n't the first person to marry into the family and subsequently head Maidenform . 
A country is considered financially healthy if its reserves cover three months of its imports . 
But before import growth slowed , China 's buying spree in the first half already had taken its toll on foreign-exchange reserves . 
The $ 14 billion level in June marked a drop from $ 19 billion at the end of April . 
For example , China 's hard-currency income is expected to suffer from the big drop in tourist arrivals since June 4 . 
Revenue from tourism this year is projected to total $ 1.3 billion , down from $ 2.2 billion last year . 
In one , imports and exports continue to grow at the respective average rates of 25 % and 5 % recorded during the first seven months , and the current-account deficit widens to $ 13.1 billion . 
The other scenario assumes that Beijing takes effective actions to curb imports in the coming months . 
But since June , foreign bankers led by international financial institutions have virtually suspended their new loans to China . 
In addition , economists are forecasting a slowdown in foreign direct investments as businessmen become increasingly wary of China 's deteriorating political and economic environment . 
With less capital coming in , China 's balance of payments would suffer . 
The Western government report 's first scenario assumes a 30 % reduction in foreign borrowing and a 5 % contraction in foreign direct investment . 
But in either case , the report says , China 's balance of payments would rapidly dry up foreign reserves , which are used to finance the imbalance . 
Ralph Brown was 31,000 feet over Minnesota when both jets on his Falcon 20 flamed out . 
But knowing that mechanics would probably ground him for repairs , Mr. Brown skipped his stop in nearby Chicago and set course to get his load -- a few hundred parcels -- to the Memphis package-sorting hub on time . 
But he flies for Federal Express Corp. , perhaps the closest thing in corporate America to the Green Berets . 
Like Mr. Brown , they sometimes go to surprising lengths to meet that overarching corporate goal : delivering the goods on time . 
That may soon change . 
This month , Federal 's 2,048 pilots , including some 961 acquired along with Tiger International Inc. in February , will decide whether to elect the powerful Air Line Pilots Association as their bargaining agent . 
`` A union , sooner or later , has to have an adversary , and it has to have a victory , '' Frederick W. Smith , Federal 's chairman and chief executive , says with disdain . 
What managers really fear is that the pro-union movement could spread beyond the pilots . 
Under federal transportation law , a government mediator is attempting to reconcile the melding of Tiger 's job classifications into Federal 's . 
That culture , carefully crafted by Mr. Smith , leaves little , if any , room for unions . 
Since founding the company , the charismatic Vietnam vet , who is still only 46 years old , has fostered an ethos of combat . 
Flights are `` missions . '' 
Flights are `` missions . '' Mr. Smith 's managers have , at times , been called `` Ho Chi Minh 's Guerrillas . '' 
The Bravo Zulu award , the Navy accolade for a `` job well done , '' is bestowed on Federal 's workers who surpass the call of duty . Flights are `` missions . '' Mr. Smith 's managers have , at times , been called `` Ho Chi Minh 's Guerrillas . '' 
He also lets workers vent steam through an elaborate grievance procedure and , as a perk , fly free in empty cockpit seats . 
And , with many of his 70,000 workers , Mr. Smith 's damn-the-torpedoes attitude has caught on . 
James Cleveland , a courier who earned a Bravo Zulu for figuring out how to get a major customer 's 1,100-parcel-a-week load to its doorstep by 8 a.m. , considers himself far more than a courier . 
`` We do n't just hand the customer the package . 
That 's just the beginning , '' he says . 
`` This is America , '' he says . 
Such attitudes have given Federal flexibility , not only to rapidly implement new technology but to keep its work force extraordinarily lean . 
But though couriers work as many as 60 hours a week during the autumn rush , they leave early during slack times while still being assured of a minimum paycheck . 
The operational freedom has also given Federal a leg up on archrival United Parcel Service Inc. , the nation 's largest employer of United Brotherhood of Teamsters members . 
UPS wo n't discuss its labor practices , but , according to Mr. Cleveland , a former UPS employee , and others , union work rules prohibit UPS drivers from doing more than carrying packages between customers and their vans . 
Labor problems are the last thing Mr. Smith needs right now . 
Although the Tiger acquisition has brought Federal a long way toward becoming the global player it wants to be , it also has brought problems . 
Federal , on its own , had n't been doing very well overseas . 
It had hemorrhaged in its attempt to get into Asia , where treaty restrictions forced it to fly some planes half-empty on certain routes . 
It had hemorrhaged in its attempt to get into Asia , where treaty restrictions forced it to fly some planes half-empty on certain routes . On routes to South America , the company had no backup jets to ensure delivery when planes were grounded . 
These and other problems squeezed Federal 's profit margins last year to 8 % , down from more than 13 % annually in the first half of the decade . 
Earnings have plummeted , too , in each of the past three quarters . 
Federal 's stock price , however , has held up well , driven in part by the general run-up of airline stocks , analysts say . 
Since trading as low as $ 42.25 a share in May , Federal 's shares have rallied as high as $ 57.87 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading . 
There 's a certain irony in the fact that Federal Express faces its first union problems as a result of its Tiger purchase . 
Tiger itself was founded by a band of gungho airmen who had airlifted supplies `` over the Hump '' from India to China during World War II . 
Federal Express officials acknowledge mistakes in their drive overseas but say it will pay off eventually . 
Analysts expect Federal 's earnings to improve again in its fiscal third quarter ending Feb. 28 , when the company should begin benefiting from Tiger 's extra flights , back-up planes and landing rights . 
For now , the union issue is the most nettlesome of Federal 's Tiger problems , management believes . 
Although encouraging dialogue between managers and workers , Mr. Smith does n't countenance what he considers insubordination . 
That sort of approach , however , has n't worked since the addition of Tiger . 
Soon after the merger , moreover , Federal 's management asked Tiger 's pilots to sign an agreement stating that they could be fired any time , without cause or notice . 
Mr. Smith angered Federal 's pilots , too . 
In his haste to seal the deal with Tiger Chairman Saul Steinberg last August , Mr. Smith ignored a promise that he had made to his own pilots three years ago : that any fliers acquired in future mergers would be `` end-tailed '' -- put at the bottom of the pilot seniority list that determines work schedules , pay and career options . 
And even some pro-union pilots say his charisma and popularity among the many former military fliers could be tough to beat . 
Mr. Smith and other top Federal executives have met with Tiger workers in Los Angeles , Ohio , New York , Alaska , Asia and Europe . 
Recently , they have appeared every few weeks in talk-show type videos , countering pro-union arguments . 
In one video , Mr. Smith defended his agreement to merge the pilot-seniority lists . 
He said Mr. Steinberg had insisted that the merger talks move quickly . 
Furthermore , Mr. Smith added , `` our contract with our pilots says that we will manage our fleet operations with their advice . 
Already , the fight has been costly . 
The issue has also cost Federal management a lot of good will among its old pilots . 
`` They were willing to mistreat us because we had n't shown any moxie , any resistance , '' says William Queenan , a DC-10 pilot and 14-year Federal veteran . 
Such animosity could prove pivotal in the union vote . 
The fight has turned ugly and , among pilots at least , has shattered the esprit de corps that Mr. Smith worked so hard to build . 
Anti-union pilots have held ballot-burning parties . 
And for now , at least , the competition is n't the only enemy . 
Barney Barnhardt , a 727 captain and leader of the pro-union forces , said he has received two anonymous death threats and been challenged to a fight with tire irons by a colleague . 
Harsco Corp. said it obtained a $ 33.1 million export order for armored recovery vehicles and related support equipment . 
Mr. Hastings 's case was particularly nettlesome because it marked the first time a federal official was impeached and removed from office on charges of which a jury had acquitted him . 
Conviction on any single impeachment article was enough to remove Judge Hastings from office . 
He was found not guilty of three charges , involving accusations that he had improperly disclosed information about a sensitive , government investigation . 
Mr. Hastings faced the senators and sat impassively during the first two roll-call votes , then quickly left the chamber . 
`` Their opinion is devoid of the wisdom of the forefathers ' teaching regarding impeachment , '' Mr. Hastings said . 
When last we left him , FBI Agent Nick Mancuso had solved a murder mystery , unraveled a Washington political scandal , and racked up some pretty good ratings numbers in the miniseries `` Favorite Son . '' 
a nun raising some lovable orphans . 
a nun raising some lovable orphans . A den mother raising some lovable teen models . 
In that context , Robert Loggia 's riveting performance as the unlovable -- even crotchety -- veteran agent seems a better franchise for a series than most . 
Over the first few weeks , `` Mancuso FBI '' has sprung straight from the headlines , which is either a commendable stab at topicality , or a lack of imagination , or both . 
The opening show featured a secretary of defense designate accused of womanizing -LRB- a la John Tower -RRB- . 
Last week , a young black girl claimed she had been raped by a white police officer -LRB- a la Tawana Brawley -RRB- . 
What makes the veteran FBI man so endearing is his hard-bitten cynicism -- earned , we discover , when he was assigned to the civil rights movement back in the 1960s . 
He was n't protecting the Freedom Marchers 
He was n't protecting the Freedom Marchers ; he was tailing them as subversives . 
`` Back in 1964 , the FBI had five black agents . 
At the core of Mr. Loggia 's Mancuso is his world-weary truculence . 
He describes a reporter as `` Miss First Amendment . '' 
Yet for all his cynicism , he 's at heart a closet idealist , a softy with a secret crush on truth , justice and the American Way . 
If `` Mancuso FBI '' has an intriguing central character , it also has a major flaw : It 's wildly overwritten . 
To start , there 's always a crisis -- and someone always worries , `` What if the press gets a hold of this ? '' 
To start , there 's always a crisis -- and someone always worries , `` What if the press gets a hold of this ? '' At least once an episode we see protestors marching around screaming slogans . 
In fact , throughout `` Mancuso FBI , '' we do n't get words or lines -- we get speeches . 
And Mancuso himself is investigating at the top of his lungs : `` How the hell can you live with yourself ? '' he erupts at a politician . 
`` You twist people 's trust . 
You built your career on prejudice and hate . 
`` Where the hell are they gon na live when people like you turn the world into a big toxic waste dump ? 
And , at least once a show , someone delivers the line `` Get off that soapbox . '' 
Now that 's advice the writers should take to heart . 
Why , when a key witness disappears , does Mancuso trash her apartment , tearing down drapes , smashing walls ? 
It 's a bizarre and totally inappropriate reaction , all to add more pizzazz to a script that 's already overdosing on pizzazz . 
That 's not plot . 
That 's not character . 
Asked to say a few words , he pulls out his crumpled piece of paper and tries to talk , but he 's too choked up to get the words out . 
He bangs on the piece of paper in frustration , then turns and walks away . 
There 's a pretty good program inside all the noise of `` Mancuso FBI . '' 
Investment letters now abound , I really like to read them 
Tana , which holds properties in 17 oil and gas fields in south Texas , will provide Texaco with mostly gas reserves . 
Texaco has also been attempting to sell oil properties . 
At least two years ago , the company put 60 million barrels of oil reserves on the block . 
They were either too small or uneconomic to maintain , the company said . 
Texaco , like many other oil companies , has been struggling to replace its falling oil and gas reserves . 
Pennzoil had sued Texaco for improperly interfering with its acquisition of a portion of Getty Oil Co . 
Your Oct. 2 article on Daniel Yankelovich cited the quote `` A good name is better than great riches '' as being from Cervantes ' `` Don Quixote . '' 
Imports rose sharply in the period , to $ 5.19 billion from $ 4.04 billion a year earlier , a change of 28 % . 
AG is hardly alone in its anxiety . 
A rambunctious shake-up is quickly reshaping Europe 's once-stately insurance business . 
Worried by European Community directives that will remove many of the barriers to cross-border insurance services , starting in mid-1990 , insurers are rushing to find partners and preparing for price wars . 
In West Germany and the Netherlands , insurers are flirting with banks . 
In France , Suez and Axa-Midi Assurances S.A. both have been on the prowl for giant acquisitions 
Any raider would find it hard to crack AG 's battlements . 
Even without bid talk , this year 's surge in prices for Brussels real estate has excited interest in AG . 
President Bush 's national security adviser , Lt. Gen. Brent Scowcroft , came into office in January intent on making the NSC staff leaner and more disciplined than it had been during the Reagan administration . 
Gen. Scowcroft was a member of the Tower Commission , which investigated the Iran-Contra affair . 
However , the Panama episode has raised questions about whether the NSC staff is sufficiently big , diverse and powerful to coordinate U.S. policy on tough issues . 
During the coup attempt and its aftermath , NSC staffers were `` stretched very thin , '' says one senior administration official . 
Gen. Scowcroft does n't plan to increase the staff right now , but is weighing that possibility , the official adds . 
The NSC staff `` does n't have the horsepower that I believe is required to have an effective interagency process , '' says Frank Gaffney , a former Pentagon aide who now runs the Center for Security Policy , a conservative Washington think-tank . 
But one clear problem during the coup attempt was that the NSC staffer most experienced in Latin America , Everett Briggs , was gone . 
Court documents filed by prosecutors indicate Mr. Tomlin tried to steer to Sperry a multimillion dollar contract to computerize maintenance of certain Navy electronics equiment . 
Documents filed by prosecutors also indicate that Mr. Lavelle and his fellow conspirators requested and obtained `` approval of the scheme '' from more-senior Sperry officials `` because the payment which -LCB- Mr . -RCB- Tomlin requested was so large . '' 
Charles Gardner , a former Unisys vice president , and James Neal , a former company consultant , have admitted participating in this and other bribery schemes . 
He sent out thousands of news releases from his Kensington , Md. , office . 
He sent out thousands of news releases from his Kensington , Md. , office . He plugged the contest on Larry King 's radio show , on Pat Sajak 's television show and on the C-SPAN cable television network . 
Mr. Lesko figured he would be flooded with entries by now . 
So far , though , Mr. Lesko has received only one entry . 
He admits that he has n't had much luck generating free publicity for his contest . 
Newspapers , including this one , have generally ignored his news releases . 
But Mr. Lesko 's staff is beginning to wonder whether there is n't some larger phenomenon foiling the contest . 
Mr. Lesko himself is n't yet prepared to accept that explanation . 
`` People hate to write , '' he says . 
Maybe Americans are just so annoyed with government that they are n't interested in admitting that bureaucrats come in handy once in a while . 
Saab said last week it `` has had and will continue to have contacts with other manufacturers . '' 
Individuals close to the Ford side of the negotiations said late last week that the No. 2 U.S. auto maker lost interest as it became clear that the Swedish auto maker 's automotive operations had little to offer in the way of image or technology . 
But the talks on a heavy truck alliance apparently did n't go far . 
Industry analysts in Europe said the most likely suitor for Saab now is Fiat . 
Ford faces an uphill fight for Jaguar , however . 
GM , meanwhile , is hosting a delegation of members of the British Parliament who are touring the auto maker 's headquarter operations in Detroit . 
But Ford clearly views Jaguar as a prize worth fighting for , since the company 's gilded brand image would give Ford a badly needed leg up in the high end of the luxury markets in both Europe and the U.S. . 
About 5.4 million Jaguar shares changed hands in active trading on London 's stock exchange Friday , and Jaguar shares moved up 19 pence to 696 pence -LRB- $ 11 -RRB- . 
The Dallas Cowboys are looking at a long-yardage situation , struggling to pull ahead of the Atlanta Falcons . 
Mr. Jones takes heart . 
So key , in fact , that Mr. Jones signed him in April for $ 11.4 million over the next six years -- a record for a rookie . 
With three minutes left on the clock , Mr. Aikman takes the snap , steps back and fires a 21-yard pass -- straight into the hands of an Atlanta defensive back . 
The crowd groans , Mr. Jones shakes his head , the Cowboys lose the game . 
For Mr. Jones , losing his quarterback temporarily was just the latest in a string of setbacks that has beset the Dallas Cowboys -- and , this year , much of the National Football League . 
Once fat and happy , the Cowboys now are losing games , fans and money . 
At the very least , Mr. Jones , who cultivates the society circuit as eagerly as his bench , can take comfort in one fact : These days , he is n't alone . 
Last year , the top 12 players on each NFL team took home an average $ 536,000 , a figure comparable to baseball and higher than in basketball . 
First-round draft picks have done even better 
First-round draft picks have done even better : Average salaries and bonuses for them rose to $ 685,000 this year , up 44 % from 1987 . 
`` It 's a vicious circle , '' says Art Modell , owner of the Cleveland Browns . 
`` One team pays so much and the other pays more . 
All this is causing convulsions in professional football . 
First , he unceremoniously sacked Tom Landry , the legendary coach who took the Cowboys to five Super Bowls and 20 consecutive winning seasons . 
Anti-Jones sentiment flooded the local press 
Anti-Jones sentiment flooded the local press : `` A crude obnoxious hick , '' said one writer 
Anti-Jones sentiment flooded the local press : `` A crude obnoxious hick , '' said one writer ; `` a real oink , '' said another 
For Mr. Jones , it was just the beginning . 
He quickly cut the team 's bloated administrative staff by half , shut down a Cowboys-owned dance academy and , in July , announced plans to sell Valley Ranch , the team 's 30-acre practice camp and the most lavish training facility in the NFL . 
Mr. Jones calls the ranch `` the Pentagon of Sportdom . '' 
It is a maze of halls that connects film rooms , elaborate spas and weight-training centers that testify to a richer , more free-spending era . 
He likes to tell the yarn of how he got lost on the expansive ranch during an early visit , took refuge in an office and called the front desk for help . 
With a new day dawning on the sport , Mr. Jones does n't see a place for this sort of luxury . 
`` It 's just not cost efficient , '' he says . 
And as for Tom Landry , well , in Mr. Jones 's mind , he had played out his winning years . 
Football has long been Mr. Jones 's passion , both on and off the field . 
An Arkansas native , he started at guard on the undefeated 1964 University of Arkansas team that won a national championship . 
After college , he worked at his father 's insurance company in Little Rock , and in 1966 led an aborted attempt to buy the San Diego Chargers . 
So it was n't surprising that Mr. Jones returned to his Arkansas roots when he went looking for a replacement for Mr. Landry . 
He tapped Jimmy Johnson , a teammate on the 1964 University of Arkansas squad and the head coach at the University of Miami , where he led the Hurricanes to five winning seasons and a national championship in 1987 . 
Whatever Mr. Johnson 's talents , in the hearts and minds of many Dallas fans , he is no Tom Landry . 
In fact , the last time they played this badly was in 1960 , their opening season . 
Mr. Jones is attacking the problem on several fronts . 
He continues to reshuffle the team , trading famed running back Herschel Walker to the Minnesota Vikings this month for a slew of players and future draft picks . 
`` It 's simple , '' says Lamar Hunt , who owns the Kansas City Chiefs and last year raised ticket prices by $ 2.40 to an average $ 17 . 
Mr. Jones has been taking prospective suite owners onto the field during practice to let them rub elbows with players , and promises those who actually buy one of the rooms an insider 's look at the team 's strategy before game time . 
The sales job seems to be paying off 
The sales job seems to be paying off : When he bought the team , only six of the suites had been sold . 
The biggest is the NFL 's contract with national television for broadcast of the league 's games . 
The team additionally earns between $ 2 million and $ 4 million for local radio and television broadcast rights . 
Mr. Jones , whose twangy voice and folksy ways belie an intense businessman who works 16-hour days , is resigned to the hefty salaries he pays his players these days . 
He calls the contracts `` critical to winning in the NFL '' and has played his part in the bidding wars . 
This wage inflation is bleeding the NFL dry , the owners contend . 
Soon , only large corporations will be able to afford to buy and run football teams , predicts John J. Veatch Jr. , an investment banker with Salomon Brothers who handled the Cowboys sale . 
To tackle the problem , NFL owners have proposed setting a rookie wage scale to try to rein in salaries . 
Details of the plan , which would go into effect in 1993 , are sketchy , but each player would apparently be paid a base salary keyed to his position and ability . 
The owners are trying to boost profit in other ways , too . 
Many have launched promotions to attract new fans and are renegotiating dated stadium contracts . 
`` We have the worst lease in the NFL , '' contends Michael B. McCaskey , the president of the Chicago Bears and a grandson of George Halas , who founded the NFL 's predecessor organization . 
`` We 're in a metro area with millions of Bear fans , and only a small number can be accommodated . '' 
The current contract pays the NFL $ 1.4 billion . 
The changes have n't come easy . 
Like the game of professional football , the NFL organization itself is in turmoil . 
The new breed of team owner , Mr. Jones included , has been fighting the NFL bureaucracy for a greater say in league affairs , and the battle has produced a form of organizational gridlock . 
In July , 11 NFL owners , almost all of them new , blocked an effort to install Jim Finks as a replacement for retiring league commissioner Pete Rozelle . 
Earlier this month , another effort to choose a commissioner failed . 
For his part , Jerry Jones says he 's in the business for the long haul , and his work style seems to support that . 
He puts in busy six-day weeks -LRB- excluding game days -RRB- , and on one recent afternoon fielded questions , in the course of an hour , from a TV producer , his luxury-suite marketing manager , a disgruntled customer and a roomful of Arkansas reporters . 
`` When I made this investment , I made it on a lifetime basis , '' he explains . 
`` I 'm not here to make money by reselling the team later on . 
Besides , to a large extent , Mr. Jones may already be getting what he wants out of the team , even though it keeps losing . 
Owning the Cowboys has bought him entree to a glitzy life that drilling for oil in Arkansas just did n't provide . 
There is the new private jet , the platoon of assistants , invitations to the best parties , and television appearances on shows such as `` Prime Time Live . '' 
How interestingly clever of Robert Goldberg to use the form of pretend advocacy journalism to explain his perception of `` Days of Rage '' in his television critique -LRB- Leisure & Arts , Sept 11 -RRB- . 
He chastises Jo Franklin-Trout for her inept presentation of advocacy journalism , judging her project as `` intellectually slipshod . '' 
One example he gives : `` She did n't ask '' -LRB- why the Palestinian children are soldiers throwing stones -RRB- . 
Of course the Palestinians complain about their treatment 
But his complaint that `` Days of Rage '' does n't contain balanced comments from Israelis about how badly the Palestinians are behaving is irrelevant . 
It 's like doing a documentary on apartheid and insisting that equal time be given to how terrific white South Africans are . 
Well , `` Days of Rage '' airing with before-and-after packaging , and after repeated delays , was a beginning . 
That would give the Pentagon flexibility that no other federal agency has . 
`` It 's simply a way of making the cuts less onerous for defense than they are for domestic programs , '' said Chairman James Sasser -LRB- D. , Tenn . -RRB- of the Senate Budget Committee , who said he would oppose the request . 
The president 's request did n't indicate how Mr. Cheney would shift the money . 
Last week , Budget Director Richard Darman structured the $ 16.1 billion spending reduction , half of which must come from defense , to `` impose a little bit more discipline '' by applying cuts to each individual program , project or activity in the budget . 
Under the deficit-reduction law , 4.3 % of the Pentagon 's money and 5.3 % of other agencies ' money has been canceled . 
Urban is the company 's first telephone subsidiary in Wisconsin . 
But some Wall Street executives argue that such fears are unwarranted . 
Sources in the industry and on Capitol Hill say a compromise that would placate the industry while addressing the SEC 's concerns may be possible . 
Despite levels of obstruction , incompetence and ensuing frustration of mythic proportion , these projects all remain , in my mind , valuable and well worth the effort . 
Let me immediately put limits to whatever nostalgic notions that may intimate . 
Those `` people '' to whom I refer are not some heroic , indecipherable quantity 
In fact , the generation of painters growing into maturity right now works with such profoundly held humanist assumptions and such passionate commitment to moral and ethical principles that it makes Che Guevara 's famous linkages of art , idealism and revolution seem modest . 
Mr. Asman should make distinctions among Fidel , the army and the Cuban people . 
They are not interchangeable , since they are motivated to act based on their own circumstances . 
Mr. Asman is also annoyed that Mr. Castro has resisted collaboration with U.S. officials , even though by his own account that collaboration has been devised essentially as a mechanism for acts directly hostile to the Cuban regime , such as facilitating defections . 
We badly need to follow fact rather than the rhetoric of conventional wisdom . 
From my own point of view , given the qualities of humanity , creativity and warm spirit in which the Cuban people excel , we deny ourselves access to things we hold dear , and which seem to run in such short supply these days . 
ENGRAPH INC. recently reported third-quarter earnings , which were mistakenly shown in the Quarterly Earnings Surprises table in last Tuesday 's edition to be lower than the average of analysts ' estimates . 
Zacks Investment Research did n't adjust one analyst 's estimate for a stock split , which therefore was artificially high . 
One bond trader estimated that more than $ 50 million of New York City general obligation bonds were put up for sale Friday alone . 
`` I 've never seen so many -LCB- New York City -RCB- G.O. 's up for sale , '' said another trader . 
Although many investors were aware that a bond offering was being scheduled , many expected a much smaller amount of bonds to be sold . 
The fact that the city will issue such a large amount of debt was interpreted as a sign that New York 's budgetary problems are more serious than had been expected . 
Meanwhile , tax revenues are falling while the city 's spending needs are expanding . 
The weakness in New York City bonds follows a warning from New York state Comptroller Edward Regan that the 1987 crash seriously weakened the city 's economy . 
In a study , the comptroller said , `` The city 's glory days are over . '' 
New York City 's revised financial plan , due out later this month , is expected to include measures to balance the city 's $ 27 billion budget . 
Mark Page , New York 's deputy director of finance , said that investors ' concerns about the city 's financial health are `` unwarranted given our proven ability to manage ourselves . '' 
And the controversy has led to uncertainty about the outcome of the election . 
Until last week , `` Everyone felt certain they knew the outcome of the election . 
After the announcement of the bankruptcy filing , Qintex Entertainment stock sank $ 2.625 in over-the-counter trading to close at $ 1.50 on heavy volume of more than 1.4 million shares . 
Jonathan Lloyd , executive vice president and chief financial officer of Qintex Entertainment , said Qintex Entertainment was forced to file for protection to avoid going into default under its agreement with MCA . 
Mr. Lloyd said if Qintex had defaulted it could have been required to repay $ 92 million in debt under its loan agreements . 
They continued to represent that to the board , '' said Mr. Lloyd . 
Mr. Lloyd said both Qintex Entertainment and Qintex Australia had attempted to secure a loan that would allow the company to make the $ 5.9 million payment but the request was turned down by an unidentified lender on Oct. 14 . 
The Qintex Australia spokesman added that his company had opposed the Chapter 11 filing . 
The report of the bankruptcy filing stunned Hollywood executives and investors . 
`` It 's a shocker , '' said Joseph Di Lillo , chairman of Drake Capital Securities , a brokerage firm that has an investment in Qintex Entertainment . 
The announcement seemed to further damp prospects that talks between Qintex Australia and MGM\/UA might be revived . 
However , `` we are n't currently doing anything . 
Makoto Utsumi , vice minister for international affairs , said the ministry did n't in any way suggest to Japanese banks that they stay out of the UAL Corp. leveraged buy-out . 
The ministry has never even suggested that Japanese banks be cautious about leveraged buy-outs in general , Mr. Utsumi said . 
The comments were the ministry 's first detailed public statement on the subject , and reflect the ministry 's concern that foreigners will think Japan is using its tremendous financial power to control events in foreign markets . 
The ministry inquired about that deal -- which Mr. Utsumi declined to identify -- because the large presence of Japanese banks in the deal was `` being strongly criticized in the U.S. Congress '' and it was `` necessary for us to grasp the situation . '' 
`` Each Japanese bank has its own judgment on the profits and risks in that -LCB- UAL -RCB- deal , '' he said . 
A Sanwa Bank spokesman denied that the finance ministry played any part in the bank 's decision . 
Still , Mr. Utsumi may have a hard time convincing market analysts who have rightly or wrongly believed that the ministry played a role in orchestrating recent moves by Japanese banks . 
`` The -LCB- ministry -RCB- thinks the banks do n't know what they are doing , that they have very little idea how to cope with risk , '' said one foreign bank analyst who asked not to be identified . 
Although some of the Japanese banks involved in the first proposed bid for UAL bowed out because they found the terms unattractive , observers here say they have a hard time believing that commercial considerations were the only reason . 
Clearly , some financial authorities are concerned about the Japanese banks role in leveraged buy-outs . 
At a news conference this week , Bank of Japan Gov. Satoshi Sumita cautioned banks to take a `` prudent '' stance regarding highly leveraged deals . 
While recent events may cool some of the leveraged buy-out fever , Japanese banks are n't likely to walk away from the game . 
Despite the risks , the deals can be an attractive way for Japanese banks to increase their presence in the U.S. market , bank analysts say . 
`` We are n't Philip Morris Cos. , '' says Bertrand de Galle , chairman of government-owned Societe Nationale d'Exploitation Industrielle des Tabacs & Allumettes S.A. , known as Seita . 
Instead , he said in an interview , he is looking for ways to exploit France 's network of 39,000 tobacco agents , most of them cafes . 
One proposal is to introduce a new payment system for parking in Paris . 
Instead of paying for parking by putting money in the existing machines , which deliver little paper receipts , drivers would be able to buy electronic cards in local tobacco shops . 
Once activated , the card would sit in the car 's window , showing traffic wardens how much time the motorist could remain . 
And Seita is considering further diversification . 
It wanted to buy RJR Nabisco Inc. 's French cracker subsidiary , Belin , in hopes of selling its products in tobacco stores , but lost the bidding to food group BSN SA . 
It also is trying to shore up its tobacco business . 
Brown-tobacco cigarettes such as Gauloises now make up just 40 % of the French tobacco market , half the level of about two decades ago . 
So Seita has introduced blonde cigarettes under the Gauloises label , and intends to relaunch the unsuccessful Gitanes Blondes in new packaging , similar to the slide-packs used by brown-tobacco Gitanes . 
The protesters said their actions were justified by the desire to save the lives of unborn children . 
Under a 1981 Missouri law , persons accused of some crimes , including trespassing , may offer a defense that their actions were justified `` as an emergency measure to avoid an imminent public or private injury . '' 
Mario Mandina , president of Kansas City Lawyers for Life , says that if abortion foes succeed in using the preamble to escape prosecution for trespass , `` This will shut down abortion in Missouri . 
In terms of sheer brutality , the Somali regime of Siad Barre may rank as No. 1 in the world . 
The only reason that Somalia remains in obscurity is numbers : a sparsely populated wasteland of 8.5 million people spread out over an expanse nearly the size of Texas . 
Guns were never used 
What gives these events particular significance , however , is the fact that they are part of a wider drama affecting the strategic positions of both the U.S. and the Soviet Union on the horn of Africa . 
Mr. Barre 's rule is crumbling fast . 
Mutinies wrack his armed forces -LRB- really just an armed gang -RRB- , which control less than half the country . 
Mutinies wrack his armed forces -LRB- really just an armed gang -RRB- , which control less than half the country . Inflation is at record levels . 
Mutinies wrack his armed forces -LRB- really just an armed gang -RRB- , which control less than half the country . Inflation is at record levels . Desperate , he has called in the Libyans to help fight the rebels of the Somali National Movement in the north , which is only one of several groups picking away at the regime in the capital of Mogadishu . 
That strip of concrete is backed up by a few one-story , air-conditioned shacks where a handful of American nationals -- buttressed by imported food , cold soft drinks and back issues of Sports Illustrated -- maintain radio contact with the outside world . 
Mr. Mengistu is in an increasingly weak position 
The weaker he gets , the more he turns toward the U.S. for help . 
The State Department , to its credit , has already begun distancing itself from Mr. Barre , evinced by its decision to publish the Gersony report -LRB- which the press has ignored -RRB- . 
But this is not enough . 
Because the U.S. is still perceived to be tied to Mr. Barre , when he goes the runway could go too . 
Considering how tenuous the security of that runway is anyway , the better option -- both morally and strategically -- would be for the Bush administration to blast the regime publicly , in terms clear enough for all influential Somalis to understand . 
Ethiopian politics are the most sophisticated , secretive and Byzantine in all of black Africa . 
Remember that it took Mr. Mengistu many months , in what became known as the `` creeping coup , '' to topple Emperor Haile Selassie in 1974 and 1975 . 
But the U.S. has one great advantage 
Most is concentrated in five Persian Gulf countries , including his own , Issam Al-Chalabi , Iraq 's oil minister , told the conference Friday . 
That 's higher than some other estimates . 
Either way , the overhang is big enough to keep delicately balanced oil markets on edge . 
Under that approach , countries with the most unused oil capacity would get bigger shares of any future increases in OPEC 's production ceiling than they would under the current system . 
They doled it out using the existing formula , however , which meant that even those countries that could n't produce more received higher official allotments . 
In the end politics got in the way . 
It 's understood several compromises already have been worked into the plan . 
The ceiling would be lifted to 21.5 million barrels to provide Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates much higher official quotas while reducing percentage shares of some others . 
Saudi Arabia , OPEC 's kingpin , also has surfaced as a possible obstacle , some OPEC sources said . 
Though tiny , that 's a reduction in its share . 
Mr. Nazer , the Saudi oil minister , reiterated here that the kingdom would insist on maintaining its percentage share of OPEC production under any quota revisions . 
In an interview in the navy 's official weekly magazine Cols Bleus , the navy 's second-in-command , Adm. Yves Goupil , said the navy still intends to buy 86 Rafales as scheduled in the late 1990s and early 21st century . 
Adm. Goupil said the navy ca n't wait until 1998 , when the naval Rafale becomes available , to replace its obsolete fleet of American-made Crusaders , used since the 1950s to protect carriers from attack . 
Officially , the statement is n't an attack on the Rafale . 
The Rafale project is the result of France 's inability jointly to develop a plane with other countries , and French officials question whether the state can continue paying for expensive independent programs . 
What brought the naval issue to a head is that the Crusaders are literally falling apart , without any immediate plan to replace them . 
Adm. Goupil , a former Crusader squadron leader , said that the last other country to use Crusaders , the Philippines , retired its last ones two years ago . 
Adm. Goupil rejected Dassault 's proposal to renovate the Crusaders , saying the cost was impossible to estimate . 
Spending by Japanese households averaged 290,782 yen -LRB- $ 2,052.10 -RRB- in August . 
Securities analysts , many of whom scrapped their buy recommendations after seeing Cathay 's interim figures , believe more jolts lie ahead . 
Cathay is taking several steps to bolster business . 
One step is to beef up its fleet . 
In addition to aircraft from Boeing Co. , Cathay announced earlier this year an order for as many as 20 Airbus A330-300s . 
Cathay also is moving some of its labor-intensive data-processing operations outside Hong Kong . 
Fierce bidding for young employees in Hong Kong is pushing up Cathay 's labor costs by 20 % a year for low-level staff , while experienced , skilled employees are leaving the colony as part of the brain drain . 
Some jobs already have been moved to Australia , and there are plans to place others in Canada . 
Although the June 4 killings in Beijing have hurt its China flights , Cathay 's other routes have retained high load factors . 
There also has been speculation that Cathay will be among the major private-sector participants in the Hong Kong government 's plans to build a new airport , with the carrier possibly investing in its own terminal . 
`` But we 'd rather put funds into our own business rather than someone else 's . 
`` But this way , American will coordinate good extensions to Boston , New York , Chicago and Dallas . 
Asian traffic , which currently accounts for 65 % of Cathay 's business , is expected to continue as the carrier 's mainstay . 
He says the airline is putting its faith in the Sino-British agreement on Hong Kong 's return to China . 
`` My feeling is -LCB- Cathay does n't -RCB- have a hope in the long run , '' says an analyst , who declines to be identified . 
Mr. Eddington acknowledges that the carrier will have to evolve and adapt to local changes , but he feels that the Sino-British agreement is firm ground to build on for the foreseeable future . 
Falcon Cable Systems Co. said it proposed an amendment that would allow it to increase its debt cap to 65 % of the company 's fair market value from the 40 % currently allowed . 
Some scenes : -- Saturday morning , a resident was given 15 minutes to scurry into a sagging building and reclaim what she could of her life 's possessions . 
-- Mayor Art Agnos stands in the glare of television lights trying to explain for the 20th time why the city is severely restricting access to badly damaged structures . 
A couple in fashionable spandex warm-up suits jogs by , headphones jauntily in place , weaving their way along a street of fractured and fallen houses . 
At a nearby corner , they swerve perilously close to a listing apartment house , oblivious to any danger . 
-- A young woman who has been out of town shows up at the Marina Middle School to learn that her apartment is on the condemned list . 
She is told she ca n't enter unless she is accompanied by an inspector . 
She bursts into tears and walks away . 
The Marina rescue center offered a very San Franciscan response to the disaster . 
In addition to free massages , there was free counseling , phone calls and a free shuttle bus to a health club , which offered up its showers , saunas and hot tubs . 
She finds the response of Marina residents -- primarily yuppies and elderly people -- to the devastation of their homes `` incredible . 
People have been very respectful of each other . 
After being inspected , buildings with substantial damage were color-coded . 
Reds and yellows went about their business with a kind of measured grimness . 
`` The guys are going for their skis , their stereos , their personal computers , '' said Frank Fitzgerald , who helped others empty their apartments . 
`` The women wanted photo albums , a certain brooch , kind of sentimental things . '' 
One building was upgraded to red status while people were taking things out , and a resident who was n't allowed to go back inside called up the stairs to his girlfriend , telling her to keep sending things down to the lobby . 
A policewoman had to be called in to make her leave 
Enforcement of restricted-entry rules was sporadic , residents said . 
One man trying to remove his car was told by officials to get out of his garage . 
The Marina also has become the focal point of city efforts to reunite residents with any pets that may have fled or become lost during the earthquake . 
The San Francisco Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals also has been providing medical care , food , water and foster homes for quake-displaced animals . 
For example , one parakeet owner returning home found that her apartment , like many others in the Marina , did n't have heat . 
`` She can stay there with no heat , but for a parakeet , that can be deadly , '' says Daralee Konowitch , animalcare services manager for the SPCA . 
But turn into the shopping center 's parking lot , and one could be in the safe , busy mall of a prosperous suburb . 
Over the past year there have been only one burglary , three thefts of or from autos , no purse-snatchings , and one attempted robbery in the mall , which opened in late 1981 . 
The Watts mall has annual sales of more than $ 350 per leasable square foot 
The Watts mall has annual sales of more than $ 350 per leasable square foot ; the figure for a comparable suburban shopping center would be $ 200 . 
A successful low-crime mall in a high-crime area violates the more typical inner-city pattern , in which commercial areas are taken over by unruly youth , gangs , and the criminal element , with an erosion of the customer base , development capital , and insurability . 
Thus there is even more to the Vermont-Slauson Center than a good place to shop . 
An additional benefit is the creation of jobs . 
This starts in the construction phase through the use of minority contractors and local workers . 
It continues through the life of the center 
It continues through the life of the center ; the Vermont-Slauson Center has created 500 permanent private-sector jobs at a one-time cost in public funds of only $ 2,500 per job . 
Profits are also plowed back into the community 
Bradford Crowe , director of the mayor 's City Economic Development Office , says : `` There is no question that Vermont-Slauson had a halo effect on the surrounding neighborhood . 
Another benefit is that substantial percentages of the proprietors in these centers are minority businessmen and women . 
In the Grand Boulevard Plaza developed by Matanky Realty Group in Chicago 's Third Ward , opposite the Robert Taylor Homes , 29 % of the stores to date have been leased to blacks and 14 % to members of other minority groups . 
Security at a typical Haagen inner-city center is impressive , but unobtrusive . 
The entire site is enclosed by a 6-to-8-foot-high ornamental iron fence with a small number of remote-controlled gates . 
Infrared motion detectors and closed-circuit TV cameras monitor the entire center 
Infrared motion detectors and closed-circuit TV cameras monitor the entire center ; lighting levels are three to five times the industry standard . 
The security command post , camouflaged as second-story retail space , has its own `` crow 's nest '' above the roofs of the other buildings , with a panoramic view of the entire center . 
Haagen has its own large security force of well-trained and well-paid personnel on round-the-clock duty at each center . 
Many states already have Enterprise Zones and legislation that combines tax incentives , loans , and grants to encourage investment in depressed areas with requirements for the hiring of the unemployed and minorities . 
These programs could be expanded to focus on funds for project planning , identifying sources of funds , and for acquiring a site and preparing it . 
With many suburban areas basically overbuilt with shopping centers , inner-city areas may represent a major new untapped market for investment . 
Government officials who wonder how important it is for them to encourage development in high-risk areas should visit Vermont-Slauson and Grand Boulevard Plaza and decide for themselves . 
ATHLONE INDUSTRIES Inc. said that on Dec. 21 it will redeem $ 10 million face amount of its $ 59.3 million of 15.625 % subordinated notes outstanding , due June 1 , 1991 . 
Some stock pickers already are targeting the OTC market , where , they say , await plenty of small - and medium-sized growth stocks . 
Growth stocks will return to favor , some analysts and money managers think , because of the jitters caused by the market 's steep slide on Oct. 13 , and because of the current swell of disappointing earnings announcements . 
The main argument for growth stocks is their usually superior performance in a slowing economy . 
`` If the market refocuses on earnings , we should get better valuations of growth stocks , '' says L. Keith Mullins , a growth-stock analyst at Morgan Stanley . 
Eventually , he believes , investors will be willing to pay higher prices for companies with proven track records of earnings growth . 
As a result , Morgan Stanley 's Index of 40 Emerging Growth Stocks -- most of which are in the OTC market -- is up only 13 % for the year , while the Dow Jones Industrial Average has leaped 24 % and the S&P 500 has grown 25 % . 
Some investors are skeptical of growth stocks because investing in them means ignoring that maxim found in the fine print of some investment advertisements -- that past performance is n't indicative of future results . 
However , more money managers are reassured that profit is regaining importance . 
Barney Hallingby , managing director of research at Hambrecht & Quist , also believes earnings growth is beginning to play a greater part in investors ' buying decisions . 
The medical devices maker 's earnings rose nearly 35 % in 1987 from 1986 , and 75 % in 1988 . 
Kurt Kruger , who follows the stock for Hambrecht & Quist , anticipates that the company 's net income will grow 51 % to $ 2.15 a share this year . 
It was a busy week for OTC stocks . 
Friday 's volume totaled 158.2 million shares 
Valley National lost 1 3\/8 to 17 1\/8 on volume of 1.9 million shares . 
Eliot Savings Bank lost 7\/8 to 1 5\/8 after reporting that it had a $ 4.8 million loss in the latest third quarter mostly because of loan-loss provisions . 
One bank stock was a winner . 
Sierra Tucson , an initial public offering , made the most active list . 
Among declining issues , a weak earnings outlook drove Groundwater Technology down 6 1\/4 to 24 . 
Medstone International plummeted 3 1\/4 to 7 1\/4 . 
McCaw Cellular Communications and its target , LIN Broadcasting , were active . 
LIN added 5\/8 to 110 5\/8 and McCaw lost 1\/4 to 41 . 
McCaw said it has secured commitments from three banks to help finance its $ 125-a-share bid for 22 million of Lin 's shares . 
The equity kicker is not attached to the offering , but underwriters said it will be offered after a filing for 68,548 common shares of CNW Holdings is declared effective by the Securities & Exchange Commission . 
Tokuyama Soda Co . -LRB- Japan -RRB- -- $ 200 million of Eurobonds due Nov. 9 , 1993 , with equity-purchase warrants , indicating a 4 % coupon at par , via Nomura International Ltd . 
On Friday , Los Angeles-based First Interstate Bancorp said it expects a net loss of $ 16 million for the third quarter of 1989 because of hemorrhaging at its First Interstate Bank of Arizona unit . 
First Interstate said the unit , bludgeoned by Arizona 's worsening real-estate woes , will have a $ 174 million loss for the quarter . 
First Interstate took a huge $ 350 million provision for loan losses at the Arizona bank . 
The action capped a spurt of grim Arizona banking news for the third quarter , and emphatically signaled that Arizona is challenging Texas 's long reign as banking 's busiest graveyard . 
Pinnacle West Capital Corp. , which has been wrangling with regulators for months over what to do about Pinnacle 's moribund Merabank thrift unit , suspended its dividend and reported a 91 % plunge in third-quarter net income . Earlier last week , Valley National Corp. , the state 's largest locally owned banking company , reported a $ 72.2 million loss and suspended its dividend . 
Pinnacle West Capital Corp. , which has been wrangling with regulators for months over what to do about Pinnacle 's moribund Merabank thrift unit , suspended its dividend and reported a 91 % plunge in third-quarter net income . Security Pacific Corp. said third-quarter credit losses surged a third to $ 109 million , mainly because of sour Arizona real-estate loans . Earlier last week , Valley National Corp. , the state 's largest locally owned banking company , reported a $ 72.2 million loss and suspended its dividend . 
Furthermore , the regulatory maneuvering behind First Interstate 's loss suggests regulators have concluded that lenders ' reserves are far too low to absorb their future Arizona losses and are forcing bankers to do something about it . 
Examiners from the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency had been combing through First Interstate 's real-estate portfolio since last month ; they first recommended that First Interstate take a provision that was less than the eventual $ 350 million third-quarter hit . 
Thomas P. Marrie , chief financial officer , would n't comment about the details of the negotiations . 
The tough regulatory stance portends large future losses , especially at the state 's thrifts . 
At least six of Arizona 's 12 savings and loan institutions have either been taken over by the government 's conservatorship program or are essentially insolvent 
For example , Western Savings & Loan Association , which is now in conservatorship , had tangible capital-assets minus liabilities -- of a negative $ 357.4 million at June 30 . 
The rapid deterioration of the Arizona thrifts only adds to the ever-swelling cost of the government 's massive thrift bailout , officially estimated at about $ 166 billion . 
They have no reserves against the real estate , and their reserves against the loans are miniscule compared with the levels of reserves banks are moving to set up . 
The thrifts had a combined loss of $ 487.8 million in the second quarter . 
All this havoc is the result of one of the worst busts in Arizona 's boom-and-bust history , compounded by some of the usual suspects in 1980s banking debacles : greed , fraud and plain bad banking . 
In the late 1970s and early 1980s , lenders and developers poured money into office buildings , condominiums and massive tracts of raw desert land , confident that Arizona 's population would grow at annual rates of 4 % to 6 % for years to come . 
Many Arizona real-estate experts think the worst may be yet to come . 
Ralph Shattuck , publisher of Foreclosure Update newsletter , said foreclosures have climbed to about 1,482 a month just in Maricopa County , where Phoenix is located . 
That 's up from about 687 a month in 1985 , and it 's accelerating 
That 's up from about 687 a month in 1985 , and it 's accelerating : So far this month , foreclosures are averaging about 85 a day . 
`` It 's reasonable to say there is not a solvent S&L in the state and the amount of viable bank capital is very low , '' said Mr. Jackson . 
`` We 're going to see another big wave of failures and defaults between now and year-end ... . 
First Interstate had a $ 214.4 million loss in 1988 's third quarter , mainly from writedowns and reserves connected with its Texas operations . 
The bank 's Arizona unit holds about $ 6 billion of First Interstate 's $ 50 billion of assets . 
Mr. Marrie said the bank expects Arizona real-estate prices , which plummeted 40 % over the last year , to fall another 20 % before stabilizing . 
Since its unsuccessful bid for BankAmerica Corp. in 1986 , the bank has undertaken a major restructuring in an effort to cut costs and boost performance , but many industry officials believe it may be ripe for a takeover bid , especially with interstate banking set to begin in California in 1991 . 
S&P also lowered ratings on unsecured deposits and issues backed by a letter of credit from the bank holding company 's principal unit , Valley National Bank of Arizona . 
A spokesman for Phoenix , Ariz.-based Valley National , said the concern will be able to withstand the current downturn in Arizona real estate . 
IL-4 is a hormone which directs the growth and function of white blood cells involved in the body 's immune response . 
Immunex will contract with the spinoff to provide the research , development and initial testing of the new agents . 
Conner dominates the market for hard-disk drives used to store data in laptop computers . 
It said yesterday that net income for its third quarter soared 72 % to $ 11.8 million , or 28 cents a share , from $ 6.8 million , or 19 cents a share , in the year-ago period . 
For the nine months , the San Jose , Calif.-based company said net income jumped 84 % to $ 26.9 million , or 69 cents a share , from $ 14.6 million , or 43 cents a share . 
Analysts expect Conner 's earnings to reach roughly $ 40 million , or $ 1 to $ 1.05 a share , on sales of $ 650 million , for 1989 , the company 's third full year in business . 
Conner 's performance is closely tied to the burgeoning demand for battery-operated computers , the computer industry 's fastest-growing segment . 
Today , Conner controls an estimated 90 % of the hard-disk drive market for laptop computers . 
In the coming months , however , this is likely to change . 
And the Japanese are likely to keep close on Conner 's heels . 
`` They are going to catch up , '' said David Claridge , an analyst with Hambrecht & Quist . 
But Conner is n't standing still . 
`` Most of our competitors are announcing products based on our -LRB- older -RRB- products , '' said Finis Conner , chief executive officer and founder of the firm that bears his name . 
`` We continue to develop products faster than anyone else can . '' 
These new products could account for as much as 35 % of the company 's business in 1990 , Mr. Conner estimated . 
Conner also makes hard-disk drives for desktop computers and is a major supplier to Compaq , which as of July owned 40 % of Conner 's stock . 
Mr. Cane stresses that he is n't using the telephone to lure clients to his doorstep . 
`` We will only deal with clients on the phone , '' he says . 
Telelawyer is apparently the only telephone service that offers the telephone equivalent of an office visit . 
When a caller reaches Telelawyer by dialing 900-TELELAW , a receptionist refers the call to one of six attorneys . 
In an effort to determine whether a caller has reason to sue , Cane lawyers review documents and perform research , if necessary , with the help of three law clerks and several support staffers . 
The jury also convicted them of extortion in obtaining a $ 20,000 , interest-free loan from a Wedtech officer . 
Edward J.M. Little , one of the assistant U.S. attorneys who prosecuted the case , said the Garcia trial `` is the last of the Wedtech prosecutions . '' 
Lawyers for the Garcias said they plan to appeal . 
The five partners who resigned from Shea & Gould late last week are Tom Hutton , Sam Ingram , Dean Yuzek , Daniel Carroll and Ernest Bertolotti . 
While investigations into lawyer misconduct will remain secret , the public will be notified once a formal complaint is filed against an attorney . 
In addition , Illinois attorneys will lose the right to sue clients who file malicious complaints against them . 
`` There 's no constitutional right involved in the rule change , '' he says . 
`` You do n't have a right to practice . 
DREXEL BURNHAM LAMBERT Inc. agreed to pay a $ 50,000 fine to Delaware , the 26th state to settle with Drexel in the wake of the firm 's guilty plea to federal insider-trading charges . 
The firm has said it expects to pay $ 11.5 million overall to settle with states . 
Executives close to Philip Morris said that the tobacco and food giant has asked Backer Spielvogel Bates Worldwide Inc. , a unit of Saatchi & Saatchi Co. , and possibly others to work on creative ideas for the account . 
Both Philip Morris and Backer Spielvogel declined to comment . 
The loss of the cigarette account would be a severe blow to Wells Rich . 
Benson & Hedges has been one of its most high-visibility campaigns , as well as one of its largest clients . 
Industry executives said Philip Morris had asked the other agencies to create campaigns in a bid to stop the brand 's slipping market share . 
According to John Maxwell , an analyst at Wheat First Securities , Richmond , Va. , Benson & Hedges has slipped from 4.7 % of the cigarette market in 1985 to just 4.1 % after the second quarter of this year . 
The slip has come despite high-profile ads created by Wells Rich , including one picturing a young man clad only in pajama bottoms interrupting a festive brunch . 
The brand early on achieved an upscale appeal -- a trait that some analysts believe is partly responsible for its staid performance . 
While Wells Rich recently picked up Hertz Corp. 's $ 25 million to $ 30 million account , it has lost a number of big accounts this year , including the $ 20 million to $ 25 million Cadbury-Schweppes Canada Dry and Sunkist accounts , the $ 18 million Procter & Gamble Co . Sure deodorant account and the $ 10 million Polo\/Ralph Lauren business . 
The Bay Bridge , the main artery into San Francisco from the east , will be closed for at least several weeks . 
The Bay Area Rapid Transit system , which runs subway trains beneath the bay , is braced for a doubling of its daily regular ridership to 300,000 . 
Most unusual will be water-borne commuters from the East Bay towns of Oakland and Berkeley . 
For the first time in 32 years , ferry service has been restored between the East Bay and San Francisco . 
That tariff is too stiff for some Financial District wage earners . 
Officials expect the Golden Gate Bridge to be swamped with an extra load of commuters , including East Bay residents making a long detour . 
About 23,000 people typically travel over the Golden Gate Bridge during commute hours . 
It also raised hackles of the city 's tourism boosters . 
City officials stuck by their estimate of $ 2 billion in damage to the quake-shocked city . 
The other five Bay area counties have increased their total damage estimates to $ 2.8 billion . 
The most worrisome stretch is 1.2 miles of waterfront highway known as the Embarcadero Freeway . 
The preliminary conclusion from a survey of 200 downtown high-rises is that `` we were incredibly lucky , '' said Lawrence Kornfield , San Francisco 's chief building inspector . 
While many of these buildings sustained heavy damage , little of that involved major structural damage . 
In England , Martin Leach , a spokesman for Lloyd 's of London , said the insurance market has n't yet been able to estimate the total potential claims from the disaster . 
California officials plan to ask Congress for $ 3 billion or more of federal aid , in the form of grants and low-interest loans . 
Much of Bond Corp. 's losses stemmed from one-time write-downs of the value of some of Bond Corp. 's assets and those of its units . 
Earnings before interest and tax from brewing dived 50 % to A$ 123.8 million from A$ 247.3 million . 
Only a year ago , the chairman of Bond Corp. , who controls about 58 % of the company , appeared to be building a war chest to attack some big companies . 
Now Bond Corp. has agreed to sell at least half its Australian brewing assets . 
But in a TV interview Sunday Mr. Bond said , `` We 've taken a big loss . 
Bond Corp. signaled it will focus on building its domestic and international media and communications businesses . 
The Bakersfield Supermarket went out of business last May . 
Nor was there a shortage of customers in the area , the residential Inwood section of northern Manhattan . 
In his first year of operating the store he bought for $ 220,000 , Mr. Ortiz was robbed at least twice at gunpoint . 
The first time he was shot in the hand as he chased the robbers outside . 
The second time he identified two robbers , who were arrested and charged . 
That was his reward for working until 11 p.m. seven days a week to cover his $ 3,000 a month rent . 
That was his reward for working until 11 p.m. seven days a week to cover his $ 3,000 a month rent . For providing what his customers described as very personal and helpful service . 
Israel Ortiz is only one of the thousands of entrepreneurs and their employees who will be injured or killed by crime this year . 
The U.S. Bureau of Justice Statistics reports that almost 2 % of all retail-sales workers suffer injuries from crime each year , almost twice the national average and about four times the rate for teachers , truck drivers , medical workers and door-to-door salespeople . 
Yet these figures show only the most visible part of the problem . 
Recent data from New York City provide more of the picture . 
A survey of small businesses there was conducted this spring by Interface , a policy research organization . 
It gave 1,124 businesses a questionnaire and analyzed 353 responses . 
The survey found that over a three-year period 22 % of the firms said employees or owners had been robbed on their way to or from work or while on the job . 
Seventeen percent reported their customers being robbed . 
More than one-third of the responding businesses said they suffer from drug dealing and loitering near their premises . 
In Brooklyn and the Bronx , one out of four commercial firms is burglarized each year . 
Two decades ago , the Small Business Administration reported Yale Prof. Albert Reiss 's landmark study of crime against 2,500 small businesses drawn from national IRS records . 
The New York study 's companies averaged 27 employees 
Whatever the monetary crime losses , they may not be nearly as important to entrepreneurs as the risk of personal injury . 
After repeated gun robberies , some entrepreneurs may give up a business out of fear for their lives . 
These findings illustrate the vicious cycle that National Institute of Justice Director James K. Stewart calls `` crime causing poverty . '' 
Underclass neighborhoods offer relatively few employment opportunities , contributing to the poverty of local residents . 
Small neighborhood businesses could provide more jobs , if crime were not so harmful to creating and maintaining those businesses . 
Bigger business can often better afford to minimize the cost of crime . 
The shift of retailing to large shopping centers has created even greater economies of scale for providing low-crime business environments . 
Few small neighborhood businesses , however , can afford such protection , even in collaboration with other local merchants . 
In the neighborhoods with the highest crime rates , small business generally relies on the public police force for protection . 
This creates several problems . 
One is that there are not enough police to satisfy small businesses . 
The number one proposal for reducing crime in the New York survey was to put more police on foot or scooter patrol , suggested by more than two-thirds of the respondents . 
A second problem is the persistent frustration of false alarms , which can make urban police less than enthusiastic about responding to calls from small businesses . 
Another solution cities might consider is giving special priority to police patrols of small-business areas . 
For cities losing business to suburban shopping centers , it may be a wise business investment to help keep those jobs and sales taxes within city limits . 
Increased patrolling of business zones makes sense because urban crime is heavily concentrated in such `` hot spots '' of pedestrian density . 
Small-business patrols would be an especially helpful gesture whenever a small-business person is scheduled to testify against a robbery suspect . 
I think this repeal was kind of a thoughtless action , as a matter of fact ... . 
Stock funds , like the market as a whole , generally dropped more than 2 % in the week through last Thursday , according to figures compiled by Lipper Analytical Services Inc . 
But several other types of funds shielded investors from the worst of the market 's slide . 
`` More than ever , people should realize they should have a diversified portfolio , '' said Jeremy Duffield , a senior vice president of Vanguard Group . 
`` You want to know how a fund did when the market got hammered , '' said Kurt Brouwer , an investment adviser with Brouwer & Janachowski in San Francisco . 
`` It 's like kicking the tires of a car ... . 
Gold-oriented funds , for instance , which invest in companies that mine and process the precious metal , posted an average decline of 1.15 % . 
Global allocation funds take the asset-allocation concept one step further by investing at least 25 % of their portfolios outside the U.S. . 
This gives them the added benefits of international diversification -- including a foreign-exchange boost during periods , like the past week , when the dollar declines against other major currencies . 
But while the merits of diversification shine through when times are tough , there 's also a price to pay 
By comparison , global asset allocation funds have turned in an average total return of about 19 % , while domestic flexible portfolios are up about 17 % . 
`` That 's the problem with trying to hedge too much , '' said Mr. Brouwer . 
The $ 4 million Monetta Fund , for instance , was the seventh top performing fund for the week , with a 2.65 % return . 
The fund 's strategy is to sell when a stock appreciates 30 % over its cost . 
By the time the market plummeted 10 days ago , Monetta was 55 % in cash , said Robert Bacarella , president and portfolio manager . 
Howard Stein , chairman of Dreyfus Corp. , said the fund was about half invested in government bonds on Oct. 13 , and about 10 % in cash . 
`` We still think there 's a lot of unsettlement in this market . 
Many of the funds that did best in the last week are heavily invested overseas , giving them the benefit of foreign currency translations when the dollar is weak . 
Three International Cash Portfolios funds , which invest almost exclusively in bonds and money-market instruments overseas , were among the four top-performing funds in the latest week . 
But when the dollar rises against major foreign currencies , as it did for much of this year , the dollar value of these funds declines . 
The small drop in equity funds in general in the latest week may not necessarily be a good sign , said A. Michael Lipper , president of Lipper Analytical . 
Noting that equity funds are up nearly 60 % from their post-crash low on Dec. 3 , 1987 , he said that what happened last week `` may not be enough of an adjustment . 
But investors do n't seem to think so . 
Several big mutual fund groups said last week that cash flows into stock funds were heavier than usual after heavy outflows on the 13th . 
`` There certainly has n't been a panic reaction , '' said Steven Norwitz , a vice president at T. Rowe Price Associates . 
Sitting at the bar of the Four Seasons restaurant , architect William McDonough seems oblivious to the glamorous clientele and the elegant setting . 
He is ogling the curtains rippling above the ventilation ducts . 
`` Look how much air is moving around ! '' he says . 
You may be hearing more about the 38-year-old Mr. McDonough and his preoccupation with clean air . 
He has put some of his aesthetic ideas into practice with his design of the four-star Quilted Giraffe restaurant -- `` architecturally impeccable , '' Progressive Architecture magazine called it -- and his remodeling of Paul Stuart , the Madison Avenue clothing store . 
He has designed furniture and homes as well as commercial and office space . He has put some of his aesthetic ideas into practice with his design of the four-star Quilted Giraffe restaurant -- `` architecturally impeccable , '' Progressive Architecture magazine called it -- and his remodeling of Paul Stuart , the Madison Avenue clothing store . 
What really stirs his muse , though , is aerobic architecture . 
Now the question is : Is Poland ready for it ? 
The project has already acquired a certain New York cachet . 
Some of the sales proceeds will go to the Design Industries Foundation for AIDS . 
If Mr. McDonough 's plans get executed , as much of the Polish center as possible will be made from aluminum , steel and glass recycled from Warsaw 's abundant rubble . 
If Mr. McDonough 's plans get executed , as much of the Polish center as possible will be made from aluminum , steel and glass recycled from Warsaw 's abundant rubble . A 20-story mesh spire will stand atop 50 stories of commercial space . 
If Mr. McDonough 's plans get executed , as much of the Polish center as possible will be made from aluminum , steel and glass recycled from Warsaw 's abundant rubble . A 20-story mesh spire will stand atop 50 stories of commercial space . Solar-powered batteries will make the spire glow . 
If Mr. McDonough 's plans get executed , as much of the Polish center as possible will be made from aluminum , steel and glass recycled from Warsaw 's abundant rubble . A 20-story mesh spire will stand atop 50 stories of commercial space . Solar-powered batteries will make the spire glow . The windows will open . 
If Mr. McDonough has his way , the Poles will compensate for the trade center 's emissions of carbon dioxide , a prime suspect in the global atmospheric warming many scientists fear . 
The news has n't exactly moved others in Mr. McDonough 's profession to become architectural Johnny Appleseeds . 
All architects want to be aware of the ecological consequences of their work , says John Burgee , whose New York firm is designing the redevelopment of Times Square , `` but we ca n't all carry it to that extreme . '' 
The son of a Seagram 's executive who was stationed in many countries around the world , Mr. McDonough was born in Tokyo and attended 19 schools in places ranging from Hong Kong to Shaker Heights , Ohio , before entering Dartmouth College . 
His interest in the natural environment dates from his youth . 
He and his father still spend time each summer fly-fishing for salmon in Iceland . 
Living in Hong Kong , he says , made him sensitive to the limits on food , power and water supplies . 
He and a Dartmouth roommate established a company that restored three hydroelectric power plants in Vermont . 
Since the 1970s energy crisis , some efforts to conserve energy by sealing buildings have had an unintended side effect : high indoor pollution . 
To reduce it at the fund 's building , workers rubbed beeswax instead of polyurethane on the floors in the executive director 's office . 
The budget was only $ 400,000 . 
`` Athens with Spartan means , '' Mr. McDonough says . 
The fund 's lawyers work in an Athenian grove of potted trees . 
The fund 's lawyers work in an Athenian grove of potted trees . Economists and administrators sit along a `` boulevard '' with street lamps and ficus trees . 
The fund 's lawyers work in an Athenian grove of potted trees . Economists and administrators sit along a `` boulevard '' with street lamps and ficus trees . In offices , triphosphorous bulbs simulate daylight . 
But , she says , `` I guess I did n't really notice the trees . 
Neither the Quilted Giraffe nor the Paul Stuart renovation reflects much of Mr. McDonough 's environmental concern . 
The restaurant was conceived as a sparkling , crystalline `` geode . '' 
Mr. McDonough thinks of the center as the `` Eiffel Tower of Warsaw '' and `` a symbol of the resurgence of Poland . '' 
If any nation can use environmentally benign architecture , it is Poland . 
The future of the forest remains uncertain . 
After all , Mr. Muniak says , `` in Poland there are n't too many people worried about the environment . 
Net sank to $ 3.1 million , or eight cents a share , including $ 789,000 , or two cents a share , reflecting a tax-loss carry-forward . 
As a result , the group 's third-quarter loss widened to $ 9.8 million from the second quarter 's $ 3.6 million . 
Burlington 's operating profit grew to $ 9.2 million from $ 3.8 million a year earlier , Pittston said . 
This is the nation 's biggest city and , traditionally , its mayor is the nation 's best-known urban politician . 
Democrats hoped that Mr. Dinkins could become a highly visible national leader . 
`` Dinkins is a decent but sloppy guy , '' says David Garth , veteran campaign consultant here who has always worked for Mayor Edward Koch , defeated by Mr. Dinkins in the Sept. 12 Democratic primary . 
`` I guess we 'll reluctantly go ahead and do it , vote for Dinkins , '' says Richard Wade , a politically active professor who supported Richard Ravitch , an also-ran in the Democratic primary . 
`` We 're picking up steam , '' insists Roger Ailes , Mr. Giuliani 's media consultant , whose last big campaign helped put George Bush in the White House . 
For , just as Mr. Giuliani latches on to an issue that has Mr. Dinkins reeling , his campaign desperately needs cash to keep Mr. Ailes 's commercials on the air beyond Wednesday or Thursday . 
But the trouble it faces now under Democratic rule seems bigger and more daunting than anything it has faced in the past . 
He defeated the contentious Mr. Koch in the Democratic primary partly because he seemed to offer hope he could heal the city 's racial and ethnic wounds . 
His general-election campaign is almost Reagan-like , all muted pictures and comforting words . 
The 45-year-old Mr. Giuliani has run a negative campaign to pick up votes leaning to Mr. Dinkins . 
`` But our polls show voters do n't like the attack stuff . 
It has n't helped that he 's waffled on abortion and gay rights , sought the support of both the Liberal and Conservative parties -LRB- he won the Liberal endorsement -RRB- and that he turned to comedian Jackie Mason for help with Jewish voters . 
Mr. Dinkins concedes nothing in his ability to stumble and bumble . 
The Dinkins campaign paid Mr. Carson close to $ 10,000 to get out the vote on primary-election day . 
Mr. Carson has been charged with being anti-Semitic . 
More troubling for Mr. Dinkins is his record in personal accounting . 
And now he 's busily trying to explain an arrangement in which he sold stock in Inner City Broadcasting Co. , headed by his old friend and patron , Percy Sutton , to his son , David Dinkins Jr. , for $ 58,000 . 
He says he sold the stock to avoid conflict-of-interest problems in his role as a voting member of the city 's Board of Estimate . 
`` It looks like serious tax evasion , '' says Mr. Ailes , the Giuliani media consultant . 
`` It follows the same pattern as his tax returns . 
`` He simply has n't explained why something worth a million dollars ended up worth $ 58,000 two years later , '' says Mr. Powers , the Giuliani campaign manager . 
`` The crime goes to character , '' says Ron Maiorana , a consultant to the Giuliani campaign . 
He evades and ducks . 
`` It makes people think , maybe this guy is n't so squeaky clean after all , '' says Mr. Garth , Mayor Koch 's media consultant . 
Most of the money was lent to a series of shell companies in Panama and Luxembourg that were owned , directly or indirectly , by the Vatican bank . 
Italian news reports said Mr. Carboni and a colleague obtained 1.2 billion lire in checks from a Vatican official , Pavel Hnilica . 
International Signal & Control , Lancaster , Pa. , a defense-equipment manufacturer , was bought by Ferranti in 1987 for # 420 million -LRB- $ 670.3 million -RRB- . 
Ferranti said that it welcomes the investigation and that it will `` cooperate fully . '' 
On Saturday , the partners said the team would be purchased for $ 54 million by a new group including Comsat Video Enterprises Inc. , a unit of Communications Satellite Corp. based here . 
Comsat Video will pay $ 17 million for a 62.5 % interest , with Messrs. Lee and Bynoe putting up $ 8 million for a 37.5 % stake in the team . 
Royal contends that Realist failed to disclose material information , including Realist 's negotiations to acquire Ammann Laser Technik AG , to stockholders prior to Realist 's June 6 annual meeting . 
The Forest City , Iowa , maker of motor homes said it had a loss of $ 11.3 million , or 46 cents a share , in the quarter ended Aug. 26 . 
The year was already shaping up as a difficult one for the recreational vehicle industry , which makes products such as motor homes , travel trailers , folding campers and van conversions . 
Winnebago was hit especially hard in the latest downturn because unit sales in its bread-and-butter motor home business tumbled 25 % industrywide in August , and 10.4 % in the first eight months of the year . 
The dividend cut will prove most costly for John K. Hanson , Winnebago 's founder and chairman . 
For the year , Winnebago had a loss of $ 4.7 million , or 19 cents a share , following profit of $ 2.7 million , or 11 cents a share , a year earlier . 
`` Recent data have indicated somewhat weaker economic activity , '' said Elliott Platt , director of economic research at Donaldson , Lufkin & Jenrette Securities . 
That would be comforting to fixed-income investors , many of whom were badly burned in the third quarter by incorrectly assuming that the Fed would ease . 
But when it became clear that rates had stabilized and that the Fed 's credit-easing policy was on hold , bond yields jumped and prices tumbled . Investors rushed to buy bonds during the summer as prices soared on speculation that interest rates would continue to fall . 
Among other things , economists note that consumer spending is slowing , corporate profit margins are being squeezed , business confidence is slipping and construction and manufacturing industries are depressed . 
Add it all up and it means `` that the Fed has a little leeway to ease its credit policy stance without the risk of rekindling inflation , '' said Norman Robertson , chief economist at Mellon Bank Corp. , Pittsburgh . 
Economists generally agree that the rate was lowered by the Fed from around 9 % , where it had been since July , to about 8 3\/4 % in early October on the heels of a weak employment report . 
James Kochan , chief fixed-income strategist at Merrill Lynch , is touting shorter-term securities , which he says should benefit more quickly than longer-term bonds as interest rates fall . 
Mr. Kochan also likes long-term , investment-grade corporate bonds and long-term Treasurys . 
He says these bonds should appreciate in value as some investors , reacting to the recent turmoil in the stock and high-yield junk bond markets , seek safer securities . 
TVA , in its first public debt offering in 15 years , sold $ 4 billion of long-term and intermediate-term securities last week . 
But persuading investors to buy bonds may be especially tough this week , when the U.S. government will auction more than $ 30 billion of new securities . 
Today , the Treasury Department will sell $ 15.6 billion of three-month and six-month bills at the regular weekly auction . 
Resolution Funding Corp. , known as Refcorp , a division of a new government agency created to bail out the nation 's troubled savings and loan associations , will hold its first bond auction Wednesday , when it will sell $ 4.5 billion of 30-year bonds . 
`` Why should I bother with something that 's an unknown for a very small pickup in yield ? '' he said . 
When the size of the Refcorp offering was announced last week and when-issued trading activity began , the bailout bonds were yielding about 1\/20 percentage point more than the Treasury 's benchmark 30-year bond . 
`` The supply is not a constraint to the market , '' said Samuel Kahan , chief financial economist at Kleinwort Benson Government Securities Inc . 
Also providing support to Treasurys was hope that the stock market might see declines because of the expiration of some stock-index futures and options on indexes and individual stocks . 
Treasury bonds ended with losses of as much as 1\/4 point , or about $ 2.50 for each $ 1,000 face amount . 
The benchmark 30-year bond , which traded as high as 102 1\/4 during the day , ended at 101 17\/32 . 
Today , for example , underwriters at Morgan Stanley & Co. said they expect to price a $ 150 million , 12-year senior subordinated debenture offering by Imo Industries Inc . 
`` There are about a dozen more deals coming , '' said Michael McNamara , director of fixed-income research at Kemper Financial Services Inc . 
And pressure by big investors forced Donaldson Lufkin & Jenrette Securities Corp. to sweeten Chicago & North Western 's $ 475 million junk bond offering . 
After hours of negotiating that stretched late into Thursday night , underwriters priced the 12-year issue of resettable senior subordinated debentures at par to yield 14.75 % , higher than the 14.5 % that had been expected . 
`` The coupon was raised to induce some of the big players on the fence to come in , '' said a spokesman for Donaldson . 
The Dorrance estate , auctioned off in a series of sales held over four days , included porcelains , furniture and paintings . 
The settlement stems from charges that Better Book , now defunct , made misrepresentations in selling advertising for the directories and memberships in the bureau from 1984 to 1986 . 
The Attorney General 's investigation was sparked by lawsuits and charges by angry California businesspeople that they were swindled in a bureau-sponsored directory project contracted by Better Book . 
McCaw Cellular Communications Inc. said it obtained `` firm '' financing commitments from three major banks in regard to its offer for 50.3 % of LIN Broadcasting Corp . 
The official Xinhua News Agency said the municipal government was discussing a draft bill to give the capital its first anti-prostitution statutes . 
Earlier , Japan had said it might file a reservation against the ivory ban decided by ballot at the 103-nation United Nations Conference on International Trade in Endangered Species in Switzerland last week . 
Italy should close the Leaning Tower of Pisa because it 's a danger to tourists , government-appointed experts said . 
East Germany pledged to reduce alcohol consumption by boosting production of soft drinks and fruit juices . 
Trade and Supply Minister Gerhard Briksa said in a letter published in the youth daily Junge Welt that the rise in alcohol consumption in East Germany had been halted ; but to reduce it further , he said , production and supply of other beverages , including fruit juices , should be stepped up . 
Sweating under the glare of newly installed television lights , British members of Parliament demanded a halt to the experimental televising of debates . 
A group of senior Conservative legislators , complaining the House of Commons was like a sauna , demanded that the experiment be stopped unless the intensity of the lights is reduced . 
Instead , many small and medium-sized banks , and some larger ones , are likely to take one of the other two options open to them under the plan , Japanese banking officials said . 
But an official at a long-term credit bank explained that since some larger banks have already taken loss provisions for loans to other Third World nations , further write-offs could be viewed as intolerable . 
A poll in male-dominated South Korea put Margaret Thatcher first on a list of most-respected foreign leaders . 
But Mr. Stein said he is `` reasonably confident '' that earnings for the full year will exceed the $ 3.1 million , or 17 cents a share , in 1988 . 
That would require fourth-quarter net of more than about 22 cents to 24 cents a share , assuming that Mr. Stein 's third-quarter estimate proves accurate . 
Third-quarter revenue is expected to be $ 40 million to $ 45 million , up from $ 38.2 million a year earlier , according to Neil Gordon , treasurer . 
Mr. Stein said Woodstream is `` marginally profitable '' but has n't performed as well as expected . 
But the unit 's third segment , wildlife traps , is suffering from a `` depressed market , '' and Ekco is seeking to sell that segment , he said . 
Mr. Stein said he expects profit to be higher in 1990 than in 1989 , reflecting a number of measures taken since the acquisition of Ekco Housewares in late 1987 . 
Mr. Stein said tighter operating controls have enabled Ekco to reduce inventory levels 25 % to 30 % ; improve on-time delivery of orders to about 95 % from around 70 % ; and to lower the number of labor hours required to produce a unit . 
Ekco continues to seek further acquisitions in the consumer-products industry , Mr. Stein said . 
The imposition of austerity measures , starting last October , already had begun to pinch when the massacre in Tiananmen Square on June 4 and subsequent events tugged the belt far tighter . 
Last year 's retrenchment dried up the working capital of Chinese factories . 
The June killings magnified the problems . 
`` Things have grown worse since June 4 , '' Mr. Lai says . 
`` The import pie will shrink , '' says John Kamm , first vice president of the American Chamber of Commerce in Hong Kong and a China trade specialist . 
The last time that traders experienced a trough was during 1985-86 , when Beijing imposed tough measures to curb imports and conserve foreign exchange . 
Import growth from the year-earlier months slowed to 16 % in July and 7.1 % in August , compared with an average growth rate of 26 % in the first half . 
The picture for China 's exports is just as bleak , mainly because of the domestic credit squeeze . 
The threat to China 's balance of payments is further aggravated by the plunge in its foreign-exchange reserves , excluding gold holdings . 
The trend has prompted Beijing to intensify efforts to curb imports . 
In recent weeks , China 's leaders have recentralized trading in wool and scores of chemical products and commodities . 
For example , Nissho Iwai Corp. , one of the biggest Japanese trading houses , now buys almost twice as many goods from China as it sells to that country . 
But the strategy is n't helping much this time . 
`` Both sectors of imports and exports look just as bad , '' says Masahiko Kitamura , general manager of Nissho Iwai 's Canton office . 
For a short time after June 4 , it appeared that the trade picture would remain fairly bright . 
Many foreign trading offices in Hong Kong were swamped with telexes and telephone calls from Chinese trade officials urging them not to sever ties . 
But when foreign traders tried to do business , they discovered that the eagerness of Chinese trade officials was just a smokescreen . 
Sitco had customarily tapped the Japanese bond market for funds , but it ca n't do that any longer . 
`` It has difficulties paying its foreign debts , '' says a Hong Kong executive who is familiar with Sitco 's business . 
Foreign traders also say many of China 's big infrastructural projects have been canceled or postponed because of the squeeze on domestic and foreign credit . 
Albert Lee , a veteran trader who specializes in machinery sales , estimates that as many as 70 % of projects that had obtained approval to proceed have been canceled in recent months . 
Another reason for the intensity of the trade problems is that Beijing has extended the current clampdown on imports beyond the usual target of consumer products to include steel , chemical fertilizers and plastics . 
But the shortages also spawned rampant speculation and spiraling prices . 
To stem speculation , Beijing imposed ceiling prices that went into effect earlier this year . 
Traders who had bought the goods at prices above the ceiling do n't want to take a loss on resales and are holding onto their stock . 
But Beijing ca n't cut back on such essential imports as raw materials for too long without hampering the country 's export business . 
On July 2 , 1987 , the tanker S.S. Glacier Bay struck a rock and spilled almost 150,000 gallons of oil into the Cook Inlet . 
The fund was created by the Trans-Alaska Pipeline Act , which provides that the owner or operator of a vessel involved in an oil spill must pay the first $ 14 million in damages . 
But the Glacier Bay case , the fund 's first test , shows how easily the fund can be undermined . 
Trinidad Corp. is contesting liability . 
It claims the Coast Guard failed to chart the rock and refuses to pay damages . 
The Oil Pollution Act , scheduled to come up for a vote in Congress this fall , would provide that if claimants are n't paid within 90 days of a spill , the liability fund would compensate them and seek reimbursement from the owner or operator of the vessel , says a spokesman for Rep. George Miller -LRB- D. , Calif. -RRB- , a sponsor of the bill . 
Bar associations and consultants are offering more programs to teach associates all they need to know about law but did n't learn in law school . 
Many law firms sponsor their own programs . 
At the Baltimore firm of Weinberg & Green , new corporate and banking associates are required to enroll in a 20-class course . 
Designs call for an L-shaped structure with a playground in the center . 
Designs call for an L-shaped structure with a playground in the center . There will be recreation and movie rooms . 
Teens will be able to listen to music with headsets . Designs call for an L-shaped structure with a playground in the center . There will be recreation and movie rooms . 
The building 's 25 courtrooms will be smaller , says Charlene Saunders , a court administrator . 
Cases in Los Angeles County involving dependent children are usually heard in the Criminal Courts Building . 
That 's the conclusion of a recent study of large law firms conducted by Altman & Weil Inc. , an Ardmore , Pa. , law firm consultant . 
The measure is scheduled to be taken up by the Appropriations Committee today . 
The panel is expected to add provisions waiving restrictions on the use of federal highway funds and may also shift money within the package to bolster the share for the Small Business Administration . 
Dubbed the `` Dire Emergency Supplemental to Meet the Needs of Natural Disasters of National Significance , '' the measure is vintage Whitten in asserting federal responsibility and in disdaining budget impediments . 
Moody 's Investors Service Inc. said it lowered the ratings of some $ 145 million of Pinnacle debt because of `` accelerating deficiency in liquidity , '' which it said was evidenced by Pinnacle 's elimination of dividend payments . 
Henry Sargent Jr. , Pinnacle executive vice president , said the action `` wo n't really have any effect on us . 
Moody 's said it also lowered the ratings of $ 70 million of Pinnacle 's MeraBank thrift unit long-term deposits to B-3 from B-2 , and on its subordinated debt to Ca from Caa . 
To judge from novels that mirror the contemporary scene , we 're back in the age of anxiety . 
Malcolm , a former film-maker turned architect , has just seen his first big chance at a lucrative commission turn to dust with the arrest of his shady , obnoxious client , a fly-by-night real estate developer . 
Nora , who still has artistic aspirations , knows she is lucky to be working as a food stylist , prepping pies , burgers , frosty cold drinks and other comestibles to look as appetizing as possible in front of the camera . 
But Nora and Malcolm feel trapped . 
It 's a downbeat , `` thirtysomething '' world , in which bright , still youngish people are engaged in a glossy version of day labor , doing free-lance , semi-professional work that brings little satisfaction or security but that they know they should be grateful to do . 
Uncertainty dogs every aspect of their lives . 
Malcolm faces bankruptcy and an IRS audit , but Nora finds an extra $ 30,000 in her bank account , suddenly increasing her available funds some fifteenfold . 
In novels of an earlier vintage , David would have represented excitement and danger ; Malcolm , placid , middle-class security . 
The irony in this novel is that neither man represents a `` safe '' middle-class haven 
The irony in this novel is that neither man represents a `` safe '' middle-class haven : Nora 's decision is between emotional excitement and emotional security , with no firm economic base anywhere . 
In making Malcolm and Nora such wonderfully representative specimens of their class and generation , Ms. Zeidner has somewhat neglected the task of making them distinctively individual characters . 
In any case , the foundering middle classes are n't the only ones in trouble -- or whose troubles provide material for fiction . 
Mr. Garber depicts these moral qualities with the broad brush strokes of a satire that occasionally descends to the realm of cliched caricatures . 
Yet the heavy-handedness of the satire also can be effective in a book like this 
High-definition television promises to be the TV of tomorrow , so it is a natural multibillion-dollar market . 
Planar Systems Inc. of Beaverton , Ore. , the largest of these firms , with $ 20 million in annual revenue , has similar plans . 
But except for Zenith Electronics Corp. and International Business Machines Corp. , which is collaborating with Toshiba on computer displays , they are poorly positioned to exploit advances in large panels . 
General Electric Co. recently sold off its interests in liquid-crystal displays to Thompson-CSF of France . 
The small U.S. firms are persisting because of their strong positions in patents , and because the prize is still there to be seized . 
`` No one yet has shown the ability to manufacture these panels '' at commercial costs , says Zvi Yaniv , the president of Ovonic Imaging . 
The Bush administration , hearing conflicting advice about what its role in HDTV should be , is n't doing much for now . 
The only material support it is extending to the struggling U.S. industry is $ 30 million in awards from the Pentagon 's Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency . 
The DARPA funds are a pittance compared with what Japan and other prospective competitors are spending . 
In 1979 , however , Westinghouse abandoned the project along with its stake in advanced television . 
`` Most American investors have just given up , '' Mr. Brody says . 
Many critics question the industry 's need for federal support 
Many critics question the industry 's need for federal support ; the Pentagon justifies its help on national-security grounds . 
HDTV already has some military applications , such as creating realistic flight simulations and transmitting information to combat commanders . 
The Commerce Department also is trying to encourage HDTV because of the benefits that could spin off to the semiconductor and computer industries . 
`` It is n't just yuppie television , '' argues Jack Clifford , director of the department 's office of microelectronics and instrumentation . 
Although some HDTV advocates are calling for other forms of aid , such as antitrust relief for research consortia , the small firms simply would prefer more DARPA funds . 
They also want U.S. trade policy to reflect the Pentagon and Commerce department 's concern over their future . 
And they want the U.S. to help them sell overseas . 
`` This is n't a technology issue , but an attitude issue , '' he says . 
The official , John DeVillars , asked Clean Harbors for more information before ruling on a permit for the site . 
Clean Harbors , based in Quincy , said it `` will proceed expeditiously '' to submit the data requested . 
Citizens , based in Atlanta , said it has about $ 4.6 billion in factored sales annually 
Indeed , the OTS said that before the law took effect Aug. 9 , it banned another `` key Vision Banc insider '' from insured financial institutions . 
For the nine months , the company expects to post a net loss of about $ 879,000 , or 35 cents to 40 cents a share , on revenue of $ 6.5 million . 
At least , that 's a theme emerging among many money managers who are anxious both to preserve the handsome stock-market gains they have already achieved this year and to catch the next wave of above-average performers . 
That sort of workhorse performance sounds made to order for a time when corporate profits overall have been weakening from the brisk increases of recent years . 
The question for investors is , how to protect these returns and yet reach a little for additional gains . 
Growth stocks also are attractive in periods of market volatility , which many investors and analysts expect in the weeks ahead as everybody tries to discern where the economy is heading . 
And they will again , say money-manager proponents of the growth-stock theme . 
Ronald Sloan , executive vice president of Siebel Capital Management , likes Wellman Inc. , a company that recycles plastic into synthetic fibers for carpeting . 
Wellman stock closed Friday at 39 3\/8 , up 1\/8 
Carmine Grigoli , chief market strategist for First Boston , who still says , `` We expect the Dow average -LCB- to be at -RCB- 3000 by mid-1990 , '' nonetheless foresees a sluggish economy in the meantime . 
He recommends such blue-chip growth stalwarts as Philip Morris , PepsiCo , CPC International , Reebok International , and Limited Inc . 
Some money managers are pursuing growth stocks at the expense of those that rise and fall along with the economic cycle . 
James Wright , chief investment officer for Banc One Asset Management , says , `` We 've been selling a disproportionate share of cyclical companies and buying a disproportionate share of high earnings stocks . '' 
He recently trimmed his portfolio of International Paper , Dow Chemical , Quantum Chemical , International Business Machines and Digital Equipment . 
Big cyclical companies are using `` all the tricks they can to stabilize earnings , '' says Mr. Sloan . 
`` What they are telling you is that they do n't have the ability to generate higher returns internally , '' says Mr. Sloan . 
`` When they are buying back stock at 10 times earnings , they are suggesting that the rate of return on competing internal projects is below '' returns on the stock . 
But not all strategists or money managers are ready to throw in the towel completely on cyclicals . 
Goldman Sachs 's Mr. Einhorn , for one , subscribes to that scenario . 
But there were fewer price swings than expected . 
As a result , the Dow Jones Industrial Average drifted in narrow ranges in the final hour of trading , and closed 5.94 higher to 2689.14 . 
New York Stock Exchange volume was 164,830,000 . 
Broader market averages were little changed in the latest session . 
That contrast was reflected in the smaller weekly percentage gains recorded by the broader averages . 
UAL skidded 21 5\/8 to 168 1\/2 on 2.2 million shares . 
On the week , UAL was down nearly 40 % . 
Paper and forest-products stocks declined after Smith Barney , Harris Upham & Co. lowered investment ratings on a number of issues in the two sectors , based on a forecast that pulp prices will fall sharply . 
Dun & Bradstreet dropped 3\/4 to 51 1\/8 on 1.9 million shares on uncertainty about the company 's earnings prospects . 
Winnebago Industries slid 5\/8 to 5 1\/4 . 
Stockholders may buy one share at the subscription price for every four shares of stock they own . 
Stockholders who exercise all their rights may buy additional shares , the company said . 
MCI COMMUNICATIONS Corp. said it filed a shelf registration with the Securities and Exchange Commission for issuance of as much as $ 750 million of debt securities . 
Home Beneficial Corp. , Richmond , Va. , said it contracted to sell its 50 % interest in a Richmond-area shopping mall to a buyer that was n't identified . 
The company also said it will adopt new accounting standards in the first quarter . 
The suit , which seeks class-action status , was filed in Delaware Chancery Court . 
The complaint alleges that the price is `` unfair and grossly inadequate '' and that the defendants are seeking to ensure a `` lockup '' of the purchase of Unitel , thereby discouraging other bids . 
It said the reduced dividend reflects the low price for precious metals . 
Comair Holdings Inc. said in Cincinnati that it bought Airline Aviation Academy , a pilot training school based at Sanford Regional Airport near Orlando , Fla . 
The short answer , on a fundamental basis , is that airline analysts say the stock is worth somewhere between $ 135 and $ 150 a share . 
Airline stocks typically sell at a discount of about one-third to the stock market 's price-earnings ratio -- which is currently about 13 times earnings . 
One analyst , who asked not to be identified , said he believes that the UAL pilots and management can put together a bid `` in the $ 225 area , '' but that it could take three to four months to close . 
Other observers note that UAL 's board , having accepted a bid of $ 300 a share , might hold out for a new bid much closer to the original level -- even if it means that the management goes back to running the company for a while and lets things return to normal . 
The pilots have a strong financing tool in their willingness to cut their annual compensation by $ 200 million , and to commit $ 200 million from their retirement funds . 
Banks want to see someone putting up real cash at risk , that is , subordinate to the bank debt in any deal . 
One obstacle to the pilots ' finding such a huge amount of cash is their insistence on majority ownership . 
One way out of that dilemma could be a partial recapitalization in which the pilots would wind up sharing the value of their concessions with public shareholders . 
But it is n't clear that banks would lend sufficient money to deliver a big enough price to shareholders . 
Using the the NWA takeover as a benchmark , First Boston on Sept. 14 estimated that UAL was worth $ 250 to $ 344 a share based on UAL 's results for the 12 months ending last June 30 , but only $ 235 to $ 266 based on a management estimate of results for 1989 . 
Unfortunately , all those estimates came before airline industry fundamentals deteriorated during the past month . 
Some analysts do n't expect a quick revival of any takeover by the pilots . 
The deal has , as one takeover expert puts it , `` so many moving parts . 
Wall Street traders and analysts estimate that takeover stock traders own UAL stock and options equal to as many as 6.5 million shares , or about 30 % of the total outstanding . 
Frank Gallagher , an analyst with Phoenix Capital Corp. in New York , estimates that the arbs paid an average of about $ 280 a share for their UAL positions . 
For the nine months , Eastern had net income of $ 41.8 million , or $ 1.80 a share , up 23 % from $ 33.9 million or $ 1.46 a share a year ago . 
Net was $ 3.1 million , or 16 cents a share , up from $ 1.6 million , or nine cents a share . 
For the nine months , net was $ 7.7 million , or 41 cents a share , up 97 % from $ 3.9 million , or 22 cents a share , a year earlier . 
Convex makes supercomputers that sell for up to $ 2 million and has an installed base of more than 550 systems and 340 customers world-wide . 
Earlier this month , Convex made a bid to outflank other supercomputer competitors like Digital Equipment Corp. and International Business Machines Corp. by adopting an open set of standards and introducing new hardware and software to link different systems . 
Posix is one of three or four versions of UNIX , but it is increasingly required by the federal government as it tries to standardize its computer systems . 
Industry executives said Interpublic approached Saatchi in August about buying its Campbell-Mithun-Esty unit , but was turned down by Chairman Maurice Saatchi . 
But the spokesman confirmed that Saatchi has received several inquiries from companies interested in acquiring its Campbell-Mithun and Rowland units . 
The offers come as Saatchi is struggling through the most troubled period in its 19-year history . 
Takeover speculation has been rife , its consulting business is on the block , and its largest shareholder , Southeastern Asset Management , has said it 's been approached by third parties regarding a possible restructuring . 
In the midst of the current turmoil , Saatchi is attempting to shore up its ad businesses . 
It named a new chief executive officer , former IMS International head Robert Louis-Dreyfus . 
But Saatchi 's troubles have only whipped up interest among outsiders interested in picking off pieces of its ad businesses . 
Campbell-Mithun-Esty , for example , has had big problems at its New York office , but offers strong offices in other areas of the country , including Minneapolis and Chicago . 
Campbell-Mithun also would be a sizable addition to an agency network 
Rowland , meanwhile , has expanded aggressively , and now ranks as the fifth-largest U.S. public relations firm , according to O'Dwyer's Directory of Public Relations Firms . 
Despite Saatchi 's firm stand against selling its ad units , U.S. analysts believe the company may ultimately sell some of the smaller units . 
The memo attempts to remove the tourist board as far as possible from the agency , which pleaded innocent to the charges . 
It also contends that Young & Rubicam never told the tourist board about its relationship with Ad Ventures , a Jamaican firm hired by the agency . 
Also participating in the finals was Los Angeles agency Hakuhodo Advertising America . 
The company also reassigned several executive responsibilities . 
David Tagg , formerly in charge of gambling operations , was appointed chief executive for retailing and property . 
David Baltimore , who has just been named president of Rockefeller University , already knows what it 's like to go through life with `` Nobel laureate '' appended to one 's name . 
The Nobel committee made the first addition 
Readers of these columns -LRB- `` The Science Police , '' May 15 -RRB- will recall that Dr. Baltimore was merely the most well-known part of the Dingell committee 's larger investigation , which touched MIT , Tufts , Duke , the National Institutes of Health and elsewhere . 
This well may be the first time that the venerable Rockefeller University has brushed up publicly against the intimidations now common in American science . 
Scientists are mistaken who still think that the anti-science movement in this country is n't their concern or that a David Baltimore could have somehow placated a John Dingell . 
-LRB- Mr. Dingell , by the way , has decreed another NIH investigation of the Baltimore paper , adding to several previous investigations . 
Fortunately , there are signs that increasing numbers of scientists understand the necessity of speaking out . 
David Hubel , a Nobel laureate at Harvard , has taken the lead in defending research with animals , as has Dr. Michael DeBakey . 
Scientists need to understand that while they tend to believe their work is primarly about establishing new knowledge or doing good , today it is also about power . 
In a media-linked world , scientists may earn wide praise and even Nobels for their work , but they also attract the attention of people who wish to gain control over the content , funding and goals of that work . 
Wisconsin Toy has 71 retail stores , primarily in discount settings . 
As a Channel Islander , I was amazed to see my birthplace listed as one of `` 86 countries with an income tax . '' 
Roland J. Hawkins , chairman of Jet Vacations Inc. , was elected to the board of this cruise line . 
We see a whole flock of programs that will impose significant costs on the American economy in the form of burdensome regulation and higher liabilities . 
Federal child care -LRB- quack -RRB- . 
Federal child care -LRB- quack -RRB- . The Clean Air bill -LRB- quack -RRB- . 
The Bush White House is breeding non-duck ducks the same way the Nixon White House did : It hops on an issue that is unopposable -- cleaner air , better treatment of the disabled , better child care . 
The Bush White House is breeding non-duck ducks the same way the Nixon White House did : It hops on an issue that is unopposable -- cleaner air , better treatment of the disabled , better child care . 
It comes up with a toned-down version of a Democratic proposal . 
The President came up with a good bill , but now may end up signing the awful bureaucratic creature hatched on Capitol Hill . 
It would create 38,000 local day-care commissions , answerable to the Department of Health and Human Services . 
The initial costs are said to be in the $ 2 billion a year range , but that 's only the beginning . 
So instead of building more efficient modern plants , utilities stick scrubbers on the old plants . 
Proponents of the nationwide standards say the cost for car buyers would be about $ 500 per car . 
Nobody knows how many billions of dollars the Americans With Disabilities Act will cost , because nobody knows what the bill entails . 
It is an intentionally vague document that will create a wave of litigation . 
Judges will write the real bill as suits roll through the courts . 
Lawyers will benefit . 
The effect of Nixon era non-duck ducks was an economy clogged up with regulations and distortions . 
By 1986 , the number of federal regulators was down to about 103,000 . 
We would have thought by now , though , that there was a significant core of people involved in government life who understood that direct taxation is n't the only way to slow down an economy . 
It is merely the most obvious . 
At the same time , he remains fairly pessimistic about the outlook for imports , given continued high consumer and capital goods inflows . 
However , Mr. Dillow said he believes that a reduction in raw material stockbuilding by industry could lead to a sharp drop in imports . 
Meanwhile , overall evidence on the economy remains fairly clouded . 
But consumer expenditure data released Friday do n't suggest that the U.K. economy is slowing that quickly . 
The figures show that spending rose 0.1 % in the third quarter from the second quarter and was up 3.8 % from a year ago . 
Certainly , the chancellor has made it clear that he is prepared to increase interest rates again if necessary to both ensure that a substantial slowdown does take place and that sterling does n't decline further . 
Sterling was already showing some signs of a lack of confidence in Mr. Lawson 's promise Friday . 
East Rock also said in the filing that it boosted its stake in A.P. Green to 8.7 % . 
Trucking , shipping and air-freight companies have announced rate increases , scheduled for this fall or early next year , reflecting higher costs and tightened demand for freight transport . 
Major shippers say they expect freight rates to rise at least as fast as inflation and maybe faster in the next few years . 
Shippers surveyed recently by Ohio State University said they expect their freight-transport , storage and distribution costs to rise about 4 % this year . 
Only 10 % of the 250 shippers polled expected their freight-transport costs to decrease , compared with 30 % who had looked to freight transport to reduce costs in past years . 
The deregulation of railroads and trucking companies that began in 1980 enabled shippers to bargain for transportation . 
Carriers could use their equipment more efficiently , leading to overcapacity they were eager to fill . 
`` Shippers are saying ` the party 's over , ' '' said Mr. LaLonde . 
`` Shippers wo n't be able to look for transportation-cost savings as they have for the last eight or nine years . 
Robert Delaney , a consultant at Arthur D. Little Inc. , Cambridge , Mass. , said `` We 've gotten all the benefits of deregulation in freight-cost reductions . 
Now we are starting to see real freight-rate increases as carriers replace equipment , pay higher fuel costs and pay more for labor . 
Not everyone believes that the good times are over for shippers . 
`` There 's still a lot of pressure on rates in both rail and truck , '' said Gerard McCullough , lecturer in transportation at Massachusetts Institute of Technology . 
Less-than-truckload companies , which carry the freight of several shippers in each truck trailer , discounted away a 4.7 % rate increase implemented last April . 
An official at Consolidated Freightways Inc. , a Menlo Park , Calif. , less-than-truckload carrier , said rate discounting in that industry has begun to `` stabilize . '' 
Ship companies carrying bulk commodities , such as oil , grain , coal and iron ore , have been able to increase their rates in the last couple of years . 
And ship lines carrying containers are also trying to raise their rates . 
Carriers boosted rates more than 10 % in the North Atlantic between the U.S. and Europe last September , hoping to partly restore rates to earlier levels . 
Bob Stone stewed over a letter from his manager putting him on probation for insubordination . 
Mr. Stone thought the discipline was unfair 
Mr. Stone thought the discipline was unfair ; he believed that his manager wanted to get rid of him for personal reasons . 
At the scheduled time , Mr. Stone entered a conference room in a building near where he worked . 
No lawyers or tape recorders were present . 
He talked about 20 minutes . 
When he was through , the court members asked many questions , then the chairman said they would like to hear his manager 's side and talk to witnesses . 
Bob Stone is a fictional name , but the incident described is real . 
Alter some details of this example and it could be taking place today at Federal Express in Memphis , the Defense and Underseas Systems divisions of Honeywell in Minneapolis , a General Electric plant in Columbia , Md. , or a number of other companies . 
These firms are pioneers in a significant new trend in the corporate world : the rise of what I call corporate due process . 
Although corporate due process is practiced today in few companies -- perhaps 40 to 60 -- it is one of the fastest developing trends in industry . 
Corporate due process appeals to management for a variety of reasons . 
It reduces lawsuits from disgruntled employees and ex-employees , with all that means for reduced legal costs and better public relations . 
It reduces lawsuits from disgruntled employees and ex-employees , with all that means for reduced legal costs and better public relations . It helps to keep out unions . 
It increases employee commitment to the company , with all that means for efficiency and quality control . 
1 . Make sure you have a strong personnel department . 
It must be able to handle most of the complaints that can not be solved in the trenches by managers and their subordinates , else the company court or adjudicators will be inundated with cases . 
At Polaroid , the Personnel Policy Planning Committee may hear only about 20 cases a year 
At Polaroid , the Personnel Policy Planning Committee may hear only about 20 cases a year ; the rest of the many hundreds of complaints are resolved at earlier stages . 
At Polaroid , the Personnel Policy Planning Committee may hear only about 20 cases a year ; the rest of the many hundreds of complaints are resolved at earlier stages . At TWA , the System Board of Adjustment hears 50 to 75 cases a year , only a fraction of the complaints brought to personnel specialists . 
In a typical year , up to 20 % of the work force goes to personnel specialists with complaints of unfair treatment . 
2 . Formally or informally , train all your managers and supervisors in the company 's due-process approach . 
2 . Formally or informally , train all your managers and supervisors in the company 's due-process approach . See that they know company personnel policy backwards and forwards , for it is the `` law '' governing company courts and adjudicators . 
2 . Formally or informally , train all your managers and supervisors in the company 's due-process approach . See that they know company personnel policy backwards and forwards , for it is the `` law '' governing company courts and adjudicators . Coach them in handling complaints so that they can resolve problems immediately . 
In case managers and personnel specialists are unsuccessful and subordinates take their complaints to a company court or adjudicator , teach managers to accept reversals as a fact of business life , for in a good due-process system they are bound to happen . 
3 . Decide whether you want a panel system or a single adjudicator . 
A panel system like that in the Bob Stone example enjoys such advantages as high credibility and , for the panelists , mutual support . 
4 . Make your due-process system visible . 
It wo n't do any good for anybody unless employees know about it . 
Naturally , one of the best ways to guarantee visibility for your due-process system is for top management to support it . 
At IBM , the company 's Open Door system is sometimes the subject of memorandums from the chief executive . 
At Tokyo , the Nikkei index of 225 selected issues was up 112.16 points to 35486.38 . 
The Second Section index , which rose 15.72 points Thursday , was up 11.88 points , or 0.32 % , to close at 3717.46 . 
But the Nikkei fell an overall 1.8 % in value that day compared with Wall Street 's far sharper 6.9 % drop on Oct. 13 . 
The Tokyo market 's resiliency helped participants to regain confidence gradually as they spent more time on analyzing factors that caused the Friday plunge and realized these problems were unique to New York stocks and not directly related to Tokyo . 
But further major advances on the Nikkei are n't foreseen this week by market observers . 
Pioneer surged 450 yen -LRB- $ 3.16 -RRB- to 6,050 yen -LRB- $ 42.60 -RRB- . 
Pioneer surged 450 yen -LRB- $ 3.16 -RRB- to 6,050 yen -LRB- $ 42.60 -RRB- . Kyocera advanced 80 yen to 5,440 . 
Daiwa House gained 50 to 2,660 . 
The key Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100-share index ended 10.2 points lower at 2179.1 , above its intraday low of 2176.9 , but off the day 's high of 2189 . 
London was weak throughout Friday 's trading , however , on what dealers attributed to generally thin interest ahead of the weekend and this week 's potentially important U.K. trade figures for September . 
The FT 30-share index closed 11.0 points lower at 1761.0 . 
They added that market-makers were largely sidelined after aggressively supporting the market Thursday in their quest to cover internal shortages of FT-SE 100 shares . 
Interest may remain limited into tomorrow 's U.K. trade figures , which the market will be watching closely to see if there is any improvement after disappointing numbers in the previous two months . 
British Airways rose initially after announcing its withdrawal from the UAL deal . 
The company gained shareholder approval Thursday to restructure in a bid to fend off the hostile takeover . 
Elsewhere in Europe , share prices closed higher in Stockholm , Brussels and Milan . 
Prices were lower in Frankfurt , Zurich , Paris and Amsterdam . 
The existence of the guidelines has become known since President Bush disclosed them privately to seven Republican senators at a White House meeting last Monday . 
According to the officials , Mr. Bush even read to the senators selections from a highly classified letter from the committee to the White House discussing the guidelines . 
They said the president conceded the notification requirement did n't affect his decision to lend only minor support to this month 's Panama coup effort . 
What 's more , both administration and congressional officials hint that the notification requirement is likely to be dropped from the guidelines on coup attempts that are being rewritten by the panel and the White House . 
However , the disclosure of the guidelines , first reported last night by NBC News , is already being interpreted on Capitol Hill as an unfair effort to pressure Congress . 
A statement issued by the office of the committee chairman , Sen. David Boren -LRB- D. , Okla. -RRB- , charged that the disclosure is part of a continuing effort to shift the criticism for the failure of the recent coup attempt in Panama . 
The statement added , `` Someone has regrettably chosen to selectively summarize portions of highly classified correspondence between the two branches of government . 
Sen. Boren said , `` It 's time to stop bickering and work together to develop a clear and appropriate policy to help the country in the future . 
In fact , yesterday the administration and Congress were still differing on what had been agreed to . 
Although the notification guideline was n't carried out in this month 's coup attempt , some administration officials argue that it may have led to hesitation and uncertainty on the part of U.S. intelligence and military operatives in Panama . 
Though the assassination ban is a White House order that Congress never voted on , the intelligence committees can exercise influence over its interpretation . 
Nevertheless , the administration 's criticisms appeared to have made some headway with Sens. Boren and Cohen after their Oct. 12 meeting with the president . 
MUTUAL FUNDS ARRIVED IN THE U.S. during the Roaring Twenties -LRB- they had been in Britain for a century -RRB- , but they did n't boom until the money market fund was created in the 1970s . 
The idea was to let small investors , the backbone of the fund business , deal in the money market 's high short-term interest rates . 
The now-standard price of $ 1 a share came about by accident . 
It arrived just as the regulator handling such operations was retiring . 
His successor approved the $ 1 price in the process of clearing the backed-up papers on his desk . 
When Dreyfus started the first advertising-backed retail fund in February 1974 , it was priced at $ 10 a share -LRB- and reached $ 1 billion in assets in one year . -RRB- 
Keeping the listed price at a dollar is primarily a convenience . 
Today more than 470 money market funds have total assets exceeding $ 350 billion . 
Many economists see even slower GNP growth for the remainder of the year , with some leaning more strongly toward a possible recession . 
`` The stock market is sick because profits are crumbling , '' says Michael K. Evans , president of Evans Economics Inc. , Washington . 
On the other hand , Mr. Evans expects the hurricane and the earthquake `` to take a hunk out of fourth-quarter GNP . '' 
His estimate of 3.3 % for third-quarter GNP is higher than the consensus largely because he believes current inventories are n't as low as official figures indicate . 
By and large , economists believe the two natural catastrophes will limit economic damage to their regions . 
Gary Ciminero , economist at Fleet\/Norstar Financial Group , Providence , R.I. , expects the deflator to rise 3.7 % , well below the second quarter 's 4.6 % , partly because of what he believes will be temporarily better price behavior . 
The consensus calls for a 0.5 % increase in September personal income and a 0.3 % gain in consumption . 
Durable goods orders for September , due out tomorrow , are expected to show a slip of 1 % , compared with August 's 3.9 % increase . 
HASTINGS MANUFACTURING Co. declared a regular quarterly dividend of 10 cents a share and an extra dividend of five cents a share on its common stock , payable Dec. 15 to shares of record Nov. 17 . 
The latest purchase follows small increases in his holdings made over the past five months . 
`` Ron Brierley clearly views our company as a good investment , '' a Vickers spokesman said . 
Stroking his trademark white goatee during a recent interview , the diminutive Swede quips : `` It turned out to be lucky for us . 
On Tuesday , Trelleborg 's directors announced plans to spin off two big divisions -- minerals processing , and building and distribution -- as separately quoted companies on Stockholm 's Stock Exchange . 
Trelleborg 's internationally traded `` Bfree '' series stock plunged SKr29 -LRB- $ 4.48 -RRB- to SKr205 -LRB- $ 31.65 -RRB- in volatile trading Monday in Stockholm . 
Mr. Andersson says he is confident that taking parts of the company public will help erase the `` conglomerate stigma '' that has held down Trelleborg 's share price . 
The spinoff should solve a problem for the parent . 
Most of the new additions were barely profitable , if not outright loss makers . 
The treatment turned Trelleborg into one of Scandinavia 's biggest and fastest-growing industrial concerns . 
Last month , in his boldest move yet , Mr. Andersson and Trelleborg joined forces with Canada 's Noranda Inc. in a joint $ 2 billion hostile takeover of another big Canadian mining concern , Falconbridge Ltd . 
But Trelleborg still must clear some tough hurdles . 
Mr. Andersson insists that Trelleborg and Noranda have n't discussed a Falconbridge break-up . 
`` The whole of Europe and the industrialized world is suffering from a breakdown in infrastructure investment , '' he says . 
Excluding the gain , the company registered a modest 4.6 % increase for the quarter ended Sept. 29 to $ 113 million , or 87 cents a share , from the year-earlier $ 107.9 million , or 84 cents a share . 
Without the Adobe gain , Apple 's full-year operating profit edged up 1.5 % to $ 406 million , or $ 3.16 a share , from $ 400.3 million , or $ 3.08 a share . 
Sales for the year rose nearly 30 % to $ 5.28 billion from $ 4.07 billion a year earlier . 
`` Adverse pressure on gross margins ... has subsided , '' Mr. Sculley said . 
Martin Schrager , 51 , who had been president , was named vice chairman . 
Also , Larry A. Kushkin , executive vice president , North American operations , was named head of the company 's international automotive operations , another new position . 
The Environmental Protection Agency is getting a lot out of the Superfund program . 
Of the $ 4.4 billion spent so far on the program , 60 % is going for administrative costs , management and research , the Office of Technology Assessment just reported . 
Over the next 50 years , $ 500 billion is earmarked for the program . 
At current allocations , that means EPA will be spending $ 300 billion on itself . 
David H. Eisenberg , 53 years old , was named president and chief operating officer of Imasco 's 500-store Peoples Drug Stores Inc. unit , based in Alexandria , Va . 
Signal , which has an estimated 10,000 subscribers and is profitable , provides stock quotes over an FM radio band that can be received by specially equipped personal computers . 
Indeed . Recently , the trust failed to auction off the paper mill , a bank , an office building and a small cotton-ginning plant . 
In October 1987 , President Corazon Aquino vowed that her government would `` get out of business '' by selling all or part of the state 's holdings in the many companies taken over by the government during the 20-year rule of Ferdinand Marcos . 
October is a critical month for the privatization program . 
In addition , the government is scheduled to unveil plans for privatizing Philippine Airlines , the national carrier , an effort that lawyer and business columnist Rodolfo Romero calls `` the bellwether of privatization . '' 
But efforts have been thwarted by official indifference , bureaucratic resistance , a legal system that operates at a snail 's pace , political opposition and government misjudgments . 
Rather than gathering momentum , the program is in danger of slowing even more as the government tackles several big assets . 
The axiom appears to be that the more valuable the asset , the harder the privatization process . 
To be sure , the program has n't completely stalled . 
Dealing with the sales this month could be particularly challenging because almost every problem that has hobbled the program in the past is popping up again . 
Ramon Garcia , the Asset Trust 's executive trustee , admits to what he calls `` temporary setbacks . '' 
October 's troubles began when the trust failed to sell a state-owned commercial bank , Associated Bank , for the minimum price of 671 million pesos -LRB- $ 31 million -RRB- . 
Bankers say , however , that the government may have difficulty selling the institution even without a floor price . 
Mr. Ty lost control to the government in 1980 when a government bank made emergency loans to the cash-strapped institution . 
In 1983 , the loans were converted into equity , giving Manila 98 % of the bank , but with the understanding that Mr. Ty had repurchase rights . 
Separately , the government will try again within a month to sell the 36 % stake in Paper Industries Corp. of the Philippines , or Picop , as the paper mill is known . 
But according to bankers and stock analysts who have studied the paper mill , price is n't the only consideration . 
As it stands now , the government would continue to hold 45 % of Picop after the 36 % stake is sold . 
Even though the government would retain the 45 % stake in Picop , critics have accused the trust of selling out to foreigners . 
A series of newspaper articles accused the trust of short-changing the government over the Picop sale . 
The new holding company , Webster\/Eagle Bancorp Inc. , will have about $ 1.2 billion of assets and 19 banking offices in Connecticut . 
In the merger , each share of Webster , based in Waterbury , will be converted into one share of the new company . 
In American Stock Exchange composite trading Friday , Eagle shares rose 12.5 cents to $ 11 . 
In an interview , James Smith said the banks ' `` markets are contiguous and their business philosophies are similar and conservative . '' 
At June 30 , Webster , which owns First Federal Savings & Loan Association of Waterbury , had assets of $ 699 million . 
It is not quite true , for example , that the Mexican government has `` privatized '' Mexicana de Aviacion , as Mr. Ortiz claims . 
In the same sentence he contradicts himself when he reports that the government still retains 40 % of the total equity of the airline . 
'' But the enterprises still in state hands include the biggest and most economically powerful ones in Mexico ; indeed , they virtually constitute the economic infrastructure . 
Those enterprises , however , are not going to be privatized . 
The bottom line , however , is not economic but political reform . 
A long succession of Mexican presidents arbitrarily nationalized whatever industry they took a fancy to , without having to answer to the public . 
The board of this Ponce , Puerto Rico concern voted to suspend payment of its quarterly of 11 cents a share for the third quarter . 
The third-largest thrift institution in Puerto Rico also said it expects a return to profitability in the third quarter when it reports operating results this week . 
Although the bidding group has n't had time to develop its latest idea fully or to discuss it with banks , it believes bank financing could be obtained . 
The new structure would be similar to a recapitalization in which holders get a special dividend yet retain a controlling ownership interest . 
It was n't clear how the ownership would stack up under the new plan , but employees would keep more than 50 % . 
One option the board is likely to consider today is some sort of cooling-off period . 
The board could eventually come under some pressure to sell the company because its members can be ousted by a majority shareholder vote , particularly since one-third of UAL stock is held by takeover stock speculators who favor a sale . 
Weirton , of Weirton , W. Va. , said $ 60.3 million of the proceeds were used to prepay the remaining amounts on the note outstanding to National Intergroup Inc. , the parent of National Steel . 
Mr. Terra said in the filing that he sold the stock to decrease his position in the Evanston , Ill. , banking concern . 
Ford and Saab ended talks about a possible alliance after Ford concluded that the cost to modernize Saab 's car operations would outweigh the likely return . 
Stock prices edged up in quiet trading Friday . 
The Dow Jones industrials rose 5.94 , to 2689.14 , making the gain for the week a record 119.88 points , or 4.7 % . 
More banks are being hurt by Arizona 's worsening real-estate slump . 
Freight rates are bottoming out and starting to rebound . 
Texaco has purchased an oil-producing company in Texas for $ 476.5 million . 
Inmac recently disclosed a $ 12.3 million write-off related to a corporate restructuring that resulted in the company 's posting a $ 6.4 million net loss for the year ended July 29 , compared with year-earlier profit of $ 9.7 million , or $ 1.02 a share . 
No safety problems with the products are known , the FDA said . 
Like other refiners , Lyondell 's margins for chemicals and gasoline were narrower . 
Management and unions representing 2,400 employees at Torstar Corp. 's Toronto Star reached a tentative contract agreement Friday , averting a strike by most employees of Canada 's largest daily newspaper . 
The Thousand Oaks , Calif.-based biotechnology company reported a 97 % increase in revenue to $ 42.5 million for the quarter ended Sept. 30 . 
The shuttle Atlantis 's crew prepared to return to Earth today several hours earlier than planned to avoid high winds forecast at the landing site at Edwards Air Force Base , Calif . 
Commonwealth leaders issued a declaration giving South Africa six months to deliver on pledges to ease apartheid or face new reprisals . 
East Germany 's leadership vowed swift action to ease travel to the West . 
Despite the pledge by the Communist rulers , tens of thousands of people across the country staged marches over the weekend to demand democratic freedoms . 
The Senate convicted federal Judge Alcee Hastings of Miami of eight impeachment articles , removing him from the bench . 
The chamber voted 69-26 Friday to convict the judge of perjury and bribery conspiracy . 
Scientists have isolated a molecule that may hold potential as a treatment for disruptions of the immune system , ranging from organ-transplant rejection , to allergies and asthma , Immunex Corp. said . 
Telephone-operations quarterly profit increased 9 % to $ 84 million from $ 77 million , while federal-systems earnings declined 33 % to $ 4 million from $ 6 million . 
In East Germany , where humor has long been the only way to express political criticism , they 're not laughing about their new leader Egon Krenz . 
`` You have to have clear feelings about someone before you can make jokes , '' says an East German mother of two who loves swapping political barbs with her friends . 
`` With Krenz , we just do n't know what to expect . '' 
According to East Germany 's ADN news agency , Mr. Krenz spoke to Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev by telephone over the weekend and acknowledged East Germany could learn from Moscow 's glasnost policies . 
Already last week , Mr. Krenz started overhauling East Germany 's heavily censored and notoriously boring news media . 
`` It was quite a shock , '' says a 43-year-old East German shopkeeper . 
And that 's a problem . 
`` I hope he grows with the job , '' says Rainer Eppelmann , a Protestant pastor in East Berlin . 
Although Mr. Krenz is dedicated to East Germany 's conservative vein of communism , there is much about his style that sets him apart from his party comrades . 
He was later shown on television , fielding questions . 
At one point , he asked a worker whether he thought East Germans were fleeing the country because of restrictive travel policies . 
The worker 's tart reply : `` It 's more than just travel . 
This same tendency toward openness impressed a group of visiting U.S. congressmen this spring . 
Rather than trying to `` lecture us , '' says one congressional aide who attended the two-hour meeting , Mr. Krenz `` wanted to listen . '' 
But there 's another side to Mr. Krenz . 
Barbara Donovan , an expert on East Germany at Radio Free Europe in Munich , says Mr. Krenz may project a smooth image , but she doubts he 's a true reformer . 
Against this background , the new East German leader must move quickly to shore up his government 's standing . 
`` But if he 's sharp and quick , he has a chance . '' 
The diplomat adds that Mr. Krenz has several things going for him . 
For average East Germans , Mr. Krenz remains a puzzle . 
`` Either he was n't being real in the past , or he is n't being real right now , '' says a 30-year-old East German doctor . 
Meanwhile , East Germany 's growing openness may even allow the state-controlled news media to display a muted sense of humor . 
Television last week carried a new report on East Berlin 's main wallpaper factory and the need to boost production . 
East Germans remember a comment a few years ago by Kurt Hager , the government 's top ideologist , that just because a neighbor hangs new wallpaper , there 's no reason to change your own . 
But the experiments continue to be plagued by lack of firm evidence that the extra heat is coming from the fusing of hydrogen atoms . 
The meeting offered stark evidence of a dramatic fall in scientific interest in cold fusion research . 
Of the 1,300 chemists registered for the society 's weeklong meeting , fewer than 200 sat through the day and a half of cold fusion presentations at week 's end . 
But Messrs. Fleischmann and Pons said their experiments also produced large amounts of heat . 
The heat energy plus the energy consumed by the breakup of the water molecules added to far more energy coming out of the apparatus than electrical energy going in , they reported . 
`` The results were fascinating , '' he said . 
On the fourth `` run '' with the borrowed rod , the experiment began producing excess heat . 
The experiment was stopped briefly to change an instrument . 
Typical of other experiments , Mr. Oriani said his experiment was `` very erratic . '' 
Mr. Oriani said the heat bursts were too large and too long to be explained by the sudden release of energy that might have slowly accumulated during the experiments ' quiescent times , as some scientists have suggested . 
Other scientists said they also were getting sporadic bursts of excess heat lasting several hours at a time . 
The bursts often occur , they said , after they `` perturbed '' the experiments by raising or lowering the amount of electric current being applied , or switching the current off and on . 
One reason questions surround the heat experiments is that they involve unusually meticulous measurements . 
Typically , the input energy ranges from a third of a watt to one watt and the excess energy is measured in tenths of a watt . 
One exception is a continuing experiment at Stanford University where as much as 10 watts of energy are being put into the electrolytic cells . 
Mr. Bockris previously reported getting bursts of excess heat and of detecting increasing amounts of tritium forming in the heavy water . 
He said that within the past few days , he 's gotten evidence that there is a `` weak correlation '' between the time the heat bursts occur and the production of tritium . 
Messrs. Fleischmann and Pons initially reported indirect evidence of neutrons being produced in their experiment but later conceded the measurements were questionable . 
Shimson Gottesfeld of Los Alamos National Laboratory said researchers there detected a burst of neutrons from an early cold fusion experiment last April but decided not to announce it until they could confirm it . 
In subsequent experiments , one of two neutron detectors occasionally indicated a burst of neutrons but neutron bursts were never recorded in both detectors at the same time . 
`` Newsprint and postage prices this year have not gone up , '' said Peter R. Kann , president of Dow Jones . 
Advertising rates for the Eastern , Midwest , Western and Southwest editions will increase an average 5.5 % , and rates for localized advertising editions will increase 7.5 % . 
Advertising rates for The Wall Street Journal\/Europe , published in Brussels and printed in the Netherlands and Switzerland , will increase 9 % . 
Advertising rates for The Wall Street Journal\/Europe , published in Brussels and printed in the Netherlands and Switzerland , will increase 9 % . Rates for The Asian Wall Street Journal , published and printed in Hong Kong and also printed in Singapore and Tokyo , will rise 8 % . 
Dow Jones also publishes Barron 's magazine , other periodicals and community newspapers and operates electronic business information services . 
Net fell to $ 65 million , or 67 cents a common share , from $ 93.7 million or $ 1.03 a share , a year ago . 
For the nine months , the electronics and defense concern had net of $ 255.8 million , or $ 2.70 a share , down 5.6 % from $ 271 million , or $ 3.01 a share , in the year-ago period . 
Jerry Junkins , chairman , president and chief executive officer , said sluggish consumer-electronics sales reduced demand for semiconductors . 
However , the quarter results included $ 28 million in royalty income from patent licenses , up from $ 21 million in the year-earlier period . 
The transaction represents Lynch 's entry into the telephone business . 
`` Mr. Hunt 's attempt to squeeze the silver market 10 years ago is still indirectly to blame for today 's market depression , '' says Lesley Edgar , managing director of Sharps Pixley Ltd. , London bullion brokers . 
Meanwhile , the photographic industry , which accounts for 44 % of silver consumption , continues to look for substitutes . 
Silver 's history of volatility is also discouraging investors , dealers say . 
Even in the present uncertain investment climate , investors are preferring `` quality assets '' such as Treasury bills and bonds to gold , silver and platinum , dealers say . 
Some analysts contend that silver is cheap now that prices are languishing at levels last seen in the mid-1970s . 
A further decline in prices will lead to mine production cuts in the U.S. , he says . 
Scrap merchants are converting smaller quantities of metal into silver , while low prices are discouraging exports from India and the Soviet Union . 
Meanwhile , total fabrication demand for silver has risen six years in a row , he says . 
The government reported that the number of young cattle placed on feedlots during the quarter dropped 5 % compared with the year-earlier quarter . 
The number of cattle moving onto feedlots in the recent quarter was also lower because fattening cattle is less profitable . 
Most traders and analysts attributed the decline to technical factors associated with the contract 's going off the board . 
Others said that the drop continued the downward correction that 's been due in the petroleum pits and that such a trend could well continue in the next several trading sessions . 
For example , copper for December delivery settled 4.5 cents lower at $ 1.2345 a pound . 
Pressure came from several developments including the settlement of two long-term strikes . 
On Friday , selling dominated the afternoon `` curb '' session in London , which takes place at noon EDT . 
Long-term support for the December contract was believed to be at $ 1.25 a pound . 
A technical analyst said there were a number of stop-loss orders under that level that were touched off when the contract 's price fell below it . 
That brought in considerable fund selling , which continued until the close of trading . 
But whether this price break has implications for this week , he said , `` we will know more when the London Metal Exchange copper stock levels are released Monday morning . '' 
He also noted that the Japanese , who had been buying at prices just above the $ 1.25 level , apparently pulled back from the market on Friday . 
Called Task Broker , the program acts something like an auctioneer among a group of computers wired together . 
The new Hewlett-Packard program , said analyst John McCarthy at Forrester Research Inc. , a computer-market research company , `` is a key building block as people move to this new model of distributed processing . '' 
In today 's computer networks , some machines often sit idle while others are overtaxed . 
The program now works on all Hewlett-Packard and Apollo workstations and on computers made by Multiflow Computer Inc. of Branford , Conn . 
Applications wo n't have to be rewritten to work with Task Broker , Hewlett-Packard said , and the user of a computer wo n't be able to tell that another machine is doing the work . 
As hamburger and pizza outlets saturate one area after another , franchisers are struggling desperately for market share , slashing prices and stepping up costly promotions . 
The chains `` used to offer discounts during winter when business was slow , but in the last year or so , discounting has become a 12-month thing , '' says Donald Harty , president of Charisma Group Inc. , a New York franchisee of Grand Metropolitan PLC 's Burger King chain . 
But early this year , PepsiCo Inc. 's Taco Bell unit and Wendy 's International Inc. slashed prices and stepped up promotions , says John Rohs , an analyst for Wertheim Schroder & Co . 
Now , two-for-one deals on pizza are common 
Now , two-for-one deals on pizza are common ; so are 99-cent specials on sandwiches normally priced twice as high . 
The discounting , say fast-food operators , occurs on a scale and with a frequency they have n't seen before . 
Joe Mack , a district manager for Cormack Enterprises Inc. , a Burger King operator in Omaha , Neb. , says discounting is so prevalent that `` we have to serve 15 % to 20 % more customers '' to keep sales level . 
Alan D'Agosto , president of Panda 's Inc. , an operator of Arby 's restaurants in Omaha , says : `` All we 're doing is keeping the customers coming , but we are n't increasing sales . '' 
With fast-food outlets on every corner , he , like many , does n't think he has a choice in the price war 
If the battle continues much longer , many fast-food businesses will close or merge , predicts Vincent Morrissey , who owns a string of Kentucky Fried Chicken stores in the Midwest . 
`` The industry is overbuilt , '' he says . 
The National Restaurant Association says quick-service restaurant units in the U.S. rose 14 % to 131,146 between 1983 and 1987 , the last year for which figures are available . 
According to Mr. Rohs , inflation-adjusted , same-store sales at company-owned Wendy 's units in the U.S. have trailed year-earlier levels throughout 1989 , except for August . 
Spokesmen for Wendy 's and McDonald 's criticized Mr. Rohs 's calculations . 
Jack Greenberg , executive vice president and chief financial officer of McDonald 's , says the company does n't compute , much less disclose , inflation-adjusted , same-store sales . 
Profit margins at company-owned McDonald 's outlets in the U.S. `` are holding up quite nicely , '' says Mr. Greenberg . 
But Mr. Greenberg 's sanguine outlook is n't matched by many fast-food industry observers . 
Smaller chains and single-store operators will be the first to fail , many in the industry predict . 
The prolonged price pressures are driving a wedge between some franchisers and their franchisees . 
But once a franchisee agrees to a promotional program , the franchiser can demand full participation to the very end , says Lew Rudnick , a principal of Rudnick & Wolfe , a Chicago law firm with franchise industry clients . 
In any case , many franchisees , in order to stay on good terms with franchisers , routinely go along with promotions . 
Reggie Jackson , the retired baseball star , has found another use for them . 
Dealers say the budding trade in Mr. Jackson 's canceled checks is unusual . 
An initial batch of Mr. Jackson 's checks was on sale at a baseball-card show held in San Francisco over Labor Day weekend . 
But these players were dead . 
However , the thought of a living player selling his checks rubs some people the wrong way . 
`` Maybe I 'm a little stuffy , but I would n't sell them , '' sniffs Bob Machon , owner of Papa 's Sports Cards in Menlo Park , Calif . 
And Mr. Smalling does n't believe they 're worth all that much now . 
Why Mr. Jackson , who could n't be reached for comment , has made some of his checks available for sale is n't clear . 
`` I would say he 's definitely not in need of money , '' says Matt Merola , an agent of Mr. Jackson 's based in New York . 
`` I assume those accounts are closed , '' says Mr. Smalling , referring to the accounts of the canceled checks . 
The move by the nation 's largest steelmaker follows a string of earlier announcements by other major steel companies . 
The surge in production , analysts say , raises questions about capacity outpacing demand . 
`` There 's too much capacity , '' contended Charles Bradford , an analyst with Merrill Lynch Capital Markets . 
He does add , however , that transplanted Japanese car makers are boosting the levels of U.S.-made steel in their autos , instead of relying heavily on imported steel . 
ONCE YOU MAKE UP your mind about an investment , the rest is easy , right ? 
Dream on . 
So here 's a rundown of the most common types of market orders permitted by the stock and commodity exchanges . 
Two things to keep in mind 
With a market order , an investor tells a broker to buy or sell `` at the market . '' 
For example , if wheat is being offered at $ 4.065 and bid at $ 4.060 , a market order to buy would be filled at the higher price and a market order to sell at the lower price . 
Investors do this by specifying a minimum price at which the investment may be sold or the maximum price that may be paid for it . 
Suppose an investor wants to sell a stock , but not for less than $ 55 . 
A limit order to sell could be entered at that price . 
Stop Order : Stop orders tell a floor broker to buy or sell an investment once the price reaches a certain level . 
Once the price reaches that level , a stop order turns into a market order , and the order is filled at whatever price the broker can get . 
While stop orders sound similar to limit orders , there is a difference : Sell stops must be entered at a price below the current market price and buy stops above . 
The crash in October 1987 and last Friday 's sell-off painfully taught some investors exactly what stop orders will and wo n't do . 
Stop-Limit Order : Stop-limit orders turn into limit orders when an investment trades at the price specified in the order . 
Unlike stop orders -- which are filled at the market price when the stop price is hit -- stop-limit orders demand that the trades be made only at the specified price . 
However , unlike a buy-stop order , a buy market-if-touched order is entered at a price below the current price , while a sell market-if-touched order is entered at a price above it . 
Fill-Or-Kill Order : The fill-or-kill order is one of several associated with the timing of trades . 
Gregory Bessemer , who came in second in the stock division of the recently completed U.S. Trading Championship , says he uses fill-or-kill orders almost exclusively when trading options . 
`` I like to use them to feel out the market , '' he says . 
Not-Held Order : This is another timing order . 
One-Cancels-The-Other Order : This is really two orders in one , generally for the same security or commodity , instructing floor brokers to fill whichever order they can first and then cancel the other order . 
Specific-Time Order : This type of order couples many of the orders described above with instructions that the order must be carried out at or by a certain time . 
`` Stop-close-only orders '' are stop orders that only become active during the closing minutes of trading . 
On Oct. 19 , 1987 , some investors learned the consequences of entering `` good-til-canceled limit orders '' and then forgetting about them . 
It is always the responsibility of investors to keep track of the orders they have placed . 
Beta is a handy gauge that measures the volatility of a stock or stock mutual fund . 
Cautious investors should generally go with stocks that have low betas . 
Remember , though , that beta also has important limitations . 
`` Beta is only part of the risk in a stock , '' says William F. Sharpe , the Stanford University emeritus professor who developed the measure . 
In particular , beta does n't measure the company - and industry-specific risk associated with an individual stock . 
`` Our fear was people would look just at the beta -LCB- of a gold fund -RCB- and say here is an investment with very low risk , '' says John Markese , director of research for the Chicago-based group . 
This is clearly not good news to all you people who sleep like babies every night , lulled by visions of your money sitting risk-free in six-month CDs . 
They estimate the return a person 's current portfolio is likely to generate over time , along with a standard deviation that suggests how much the return will vary year by year . 
Note that the younger couple 's portfolio has a higher expected annual return , 10.1 % vs. 8.8 % , as calculated by Seidman Financial Services , which is the financial-planning affiliate of BDO Seidman . 
When it comes to investing , trying to weigh risk and reward can seem like throwing darts blindfolded 
A letter from Senator John Kerry chides us today for implying that he had `` flip-flopped '' on Manuel Noriega . 
Our October 12 editorial should have been more precise . 
The Sandinistas of Nicaragua , for example , also are part of the Castro-Medellin cartel nexus . 
In his letter and on the basis of his losing vote Tuesday against U.S. aid for the Nicaraguan opposition , Senator Kerry makes clear he has not made that intellectual leap . 
THROUGHOUT THE 1980s , investors have been looking for creative alternatives to traditional modes of financial planning . 
My revolutionary system is also useful for those who have tried customary forms of growing their currency cushion . 
So throughout the decade I have maintained my share of individual retirement accounts and CDs , and tinkered with stocks , bonds and mutual funds , as well as preserving my necessary position in the residential real-estate market . 
Figure 1 demonstrates the performance of those businesses I 've invested in during this prosperous decade -LRB- see accompanying illustration -- WSJ Oct. 20 , 1989 -RRB- . 
Likewise , mutual funds remained relatively flat until I made what was , for me , a serious investment . 
By 1987 , these properties were in a tailspin , causing my broker at Pru-Bache to remark that she 'd `` never seen anything like it . '' 
Concerned for her state of mind , I dropped them -- and the market instantly began its steady climb back to health . 
We 've all got money to spend , some of it clearly disposable since we keep disposing of it . 
Your priorities may be different , but here in Figure 2 is where I 've chosen to build for the future : personal space ; automotive pursuits ; children 's toys ; gardening equipment , bulbs and shrubs ; and finally , entertainment , perhaps the best investment of all . 
Continued investment in my 1984 subcompact has been part of my strategy -LRB- Figure 5 -RRB- , with present annual contributions now equaling more than 60 % of the car 's original value . 
I have thus committed sufficient personal outlay to ensure that my grounds and lodgings will never be short of greens and flowers . 
With this personal strategy firmly in place , I look forward to years of fine life-style investments and increasing widespread leverage . 
So go out there and eat that debt . 
WHEN JAMES SCHWARTZ was just a lad his father gave him a piece of career advice . 
`` He told me to choose an area where just by being mediocre I could be great , '' recalls Mr. Schwartz , now 40 . 
He tried management consulting , traded in turquoise for a while , and even managed professional wrestlers . 
But in this case the needle has a very sharp point . 
Planners now influence the investment of several hundred billion dollars , but in effect they operate in the dark . 
There is no effective regulation of planners , no accepted standard for admission into their ranks -- a dog got into one trade group -- no way to assess their performance , no way even to know how many of them there are -LRB- estimates range from 60,000 to 450,000 -RRB- . 
So it should come as no shock that the profession , if that 's what it is , has attracted a lot of people whose principal talents seem to be frittering away or flat-out stealing their clients ' money . 
Alarmed , state and federal authorities are trying to devise ways to certify and regulate planners . 
Industry groups and reputable planners who are members of them want comprehensive standards , too 
But reform has n't taken hold yet . 
An admittedly limited survey by NASAA , whose members are state securities-law regulators , found that between 1986 and 1988 `` fraud and abuse '' by financial planners cost 22,000 investors $ 400 million . 
The rogues ' gallery of planners involved includes some convicted felons , a compulsive gambler or two , various businessmen who had planned their own previous ventures right into bankruptcy , and one man who scammed his wife 's grandmother . 
So do just about all the losses that could be attributed to the sheer incompetence of unqualified planners . 
Nobody can estimate the toll , but John Gargan , a Tampa , Fla. , planner and head of one trade group , the International Association of Registered Financial Planners , thinks the danger to investors from incompetence is `` humongous , '' far greater than that from crookery . 
Surveying all this , some people now think the best planner might be no planner at all . 
She concedes that such a position is `` unfair '' to the thousands of conscientious and qualified people plying the trade , but as a consumer advocate she feels impelled to take it . 
The bad news , however , has n't been bad enough to kill the growing demand for financial planning . 
An estimated 10 million Americans are now using financial planners , and the pool of capital they influence is enormous . 
The sheer number of planners makes the business extremely difficult , if not impossible , to regulate . 
Even the minority of them who must register with the Securities and Exchange Commission as `` investment advisers '' -- people who are in the business of counseling others on the buying and selling of securities specifically -- have been enough to swamp the agency 's capacity . 
The SEC has only about 200 staffers assigned to keep tabs on investment advisers -- about the same as in 1980 -- even though the number of advisers has tripled to about 15,000 over the past decade . 
Currently , a registered investment adviser can expect an SEC audit only once every 12 years . 
A lot of bad things can happen in 12 years . 
So the SEC has proposed to Congress that much of the job of oversight be turned over to an industry-funded , self-regulatory organization patterned on the National Association of Securities Dealers , which operates in the brokerage business . 
The proposal has set off a lively debate within an industry that was far from united to begin with . 
Mr. Schwartz , the puckish planner from Englewood , Colo. , says that allowing the business to police itself would be `` like putting Dracula in charge of the blood bank . '' 
-LRB- Mr. Gargan 's views are not greeted with wild enthusiasm over at the IAFP , the major industry organization . 
When the IAFP recently assembled other industry groups to discuss common standards that might be applied to planners , Mr. Gargan 's group was excluded . 
The states have their own ideas about regulation and certification . 
NASAA , the organization of state securities regulators , is pushing for a model regulatory statute already adopted in eight states . 
The most common conflict involves compensation . 
NASAA estimates that nearly 90 % of planners receive some or all of their income from sales commissions on securities , insurance and other financial products they recommend . 
In 1986 the New York attorney general 's office got an order from a state court in Albany shutting down First Meridian Corp. , an Albany financial-planning firm that had invested $ 55 million on behalf of nearly 1,000 investors . 
In its notice of action , the attorney general said the company had promised to put clients into `` balanced '' investment portfolios ; instead , the attorney general alleged , the company consistently shoved unwary customers into high-risk investments in paintings , coins and Florida condos . 
Investors were further assured that only those with a minimun net worth would be accepted . 
And , the attorney general added , First Meridian 's president , Roger V. Sala , portrayed himself as a `` financial expert '' when his qualifications largely consisted of a high-school diploma , work as a real-estate and insurance salesman , and a stint as supervisor at a highway toll booth . 
Harry Manion , Mr. Sala 's attorney , says his client denies any wrongdoing and adds that the attorney general 's contentions about First Meridian 's business practices are incorrect . 
Civil suits against planners by clients seeking recovery of funds are increasingly common . 
Two such actions , both filed earlier this year in Georgia state court in Atlanta , could be particularly embarrassing to the industry 
In affidavits , each plaintiff claims Mr. Peterson promised the bank purchase would be completed by the end of 1988 or the money returned . 
Wearing a business suit and western-style hat and boots , he opened up his briefcase and dumped $ 1 million in cash on a table in front of the directors , says Myron Diebel , the bank 's president . 
Bank officials , however , showed him the door , and the sale never came off . 
According to the suit , Mr. Peterson has yet to return the plaintiffs ' investment . 
They want it back . 
On the suit by the limited partners , he says he is considering a defamation suit against the plaintiffs . 
Rearding the suit over the bank bid , Mr. Peterson says it is filled with `` inflammatory language and half truths . '' 
Mr. Peterson says the suits against him are less a measure of his work than they are a `` sign of the times '' in which people generally are more prone to sue . 
Mr. Peterson also says he does n't consider himself a financial planner anymore . 
In many scams or alleged scams involving planners , it 's plain that only a modicum of common sense on the part of the investors would have kept them out of harm 's way . 
Certificates of deposit do n't pay 23 % a year , for example , but that did n't give pause to clients of one Alabama planner . 
Never mind . 
They root among the designer offerings at Neiman-Marcus and Bullocks Wilshire . 
They root among the designer offerings at Neiman-Marcus and Bullocks Wilshire . They stroll through the marble-encased corridors of the Atrium Court . 
They graze at the Farmers Market , a combination gourmet food court and grocery store , while a pianist accompanies the noon fashion show with a selection of dreamy melodies . 
Meanwhile , in the squat office buildings that ring Fashion Island , the odds are good that someone is getting fleeced . 
Law-enforcement authorities say that at any given time , a host of fraudulent telemarketing operations mingle with the many legitimate businesses here . 
The places renowned for breeding bunco , like the Miami neighborhood known as the `` Maggot Mile '' and Las Vegas 's flashy strip of casinos , invariably offer fast cars , high rollers , glamorous women and lots of sunshine . 
You do n't hear much about unusual concentrations of fraud in Green Bay or Buffalo . 
Newport Beach fits the scam artists ' specifications perfectly . 
Nothing seems hard here . 
The breezes are soft , the waves lap gently and the palm trees sway lazily . 
Moreover , ostentation is appreciated . 
The median price of homes is $ 547,000 
The rich image of Newport Beach also helps lend the con artists ' operation an air of respectability . 
`` One reason they use Newport Beach is that it sounds swankier than most addresses , '' says David Katz , a U.S. attorney who , until recently , headed a multi-agency Southern California fraud task force . 
Because only a fraction of them are ever prosecuted , nobody really knows how much money bogus telemarketing operators really harvest . 
In fact , sophisticated big-bucks boiler-room scams are known generically among law-enforcement types as `` Newport Beach '' operations . 
Newport Beach telemarketers concentrate on precious metals and oil-leasing deals that typically cost thousands of dollars a shot . 
In one ingenious recent example of a Newport Beach boiler room , prospective investors in Capital Trust Inc. were allegedly told that their investment in precious metals was insured against losses `` caused by employees due to dishonesty , destruction or disappearance , '' according to an indictment handed up by a federal grand jury in Los Angeles last month . 
Douglas Jones , an attorney representing Richard O. Kelly Sr. , the chairman and president of Capital Trust , says his client denies that there was any attempt to defraud investors . 
`` There were some business deals that went bad , '' Mr. Jones says , `` but no intent to defraud . '' 
Newport Beach operations differ from the Hollywood boiler rooms in style as well as in dollars . 
But , says Mr. Katz , the U.S. attorney , `` the interesting thing about Newport Beach operations is that they give themselves the indulgence of beautiful offices , with plush furnishings . 
The Newport Beach operators also tend to indulge themselves privately . 
Investigators cite the case of Matthew Valentine , who is currently serving a six-year sentence at Lompoc Federal Prison for his role in Intech Investment Corp. , which promised investors returns of as much as 625 % on precious metals . 
Mr. Valentine , who pleaded guilty to five counts of fraud in federal court in Los Angeles , drove a leased Mercedes and lived in an expensive home on Lido Isle , an island in Newport 's harbor , according to investigators . 
With the $ 3 million received from investors , he took frequent junkets with friends to exotic locales and leased an expensive BMW for his girlfriend , whom he met at the shop where he got his custom-tailored suits . 
All this talk of boiler rooms and fraud is unnerving to the city 's legitimate business element . 
Vincent M Ciavarella , regional manager of Property Management Systems , insists he does n't know of any bogus telemarketers operating in the 1.6 million square feet of office space around Fashion Island that his company leases for Irvine Co. , the owner and developer of the project . 
Mr. Ciavarella has rejected a few prospective tenants who provided `` incomplete '' financial information and acknowledges that illegitimate operators `` are not easily detectable . 
Richard Luehrs , president of the Newport Harbor Area Chamber of Commerce , calls boiler rooms a `` negative we wish we could get rid of . '' 
YOU WENT to college and thought you got an education . 
True , when you went to college , there was n't that much to learn . 
Stick some money in an interest-bearing account and watch it grow . 
Nothing in the annals of tuition readied parents for the 1980s . 
Tuitions at private colleges rose 154 % in the 10 years ended in June of this year 
A year at Harvard now goes for $ 19,395 . 
By 2007 , when this year 's newborns hit campus , a four-year Ivy League sheepskin will cost $ 300,000 , give or take a few pizzas-with-everything at exam time . 
Some investment advisers are suggesting , in effect , a bet on a start-up investment pool -- maybe even on margin . 
Some investment advisers are suggesting , in effect , a bet on a start-up investment pool -- maybe even on margin . Others prefer deep-discount zero-coupon bonds . 
`` You 're not going to make it in a 5 % bank account , '' says James Riepe , director of mutual funds at T. Rowe Price . 
Or the zero-coupon bonds turn out not to have been discounted deeply enough to pay your kid 's tuition . 
Help may be on the way . 
The antitrust division of the Justice Department is investigating the oddly similar tuition charges and increases among the top schools . 
Their message , explicit or implicit , is that a good college will cost so much by whenever you want it that the tried and true wo n't do anymore . 
The latest wave of marketing is instructive . 
The figures are shocking . 
To build a nest egg that would pay for Stanford when a current first-grader reaches college age , parents would need to set aside $ 773.94 a month -- for 12 years . 
Plugging a cheaper college into the formulas still does n't generate an installment most people can live with . 
Using a recent average private-school cost of about $ 12,500 a year , T. Rowe Price 's planner prescribes $ 450 monthly if the plan begins when the child is six . 
Not everyone is so pessimistic . 
`` People are basically peddling a lot of fear , '' says Arthur Hauptman , a consultant to the American Council on Education in Washington . 
Still , he says , `` it 's no bad thing '' if all the marketing prods people into putting aside a little more . 
`` The situation you want to avoid is having somebody not save anything and hope they 'll be able to do it out of current income , '' he says . 
His advice : Do n't panic . 
Parents , he says , should aim at whatever regular investment sum they can afford . 
Half the amount that the investment tables suggest might be a good goal , he adds . 
Mr. Hauptman reckons that the best investment choice is mutual funds because they are managed and over time have nearly kept up with the broad stock averages . 
In their anxiety , however , parents and other student benefactors are flocking to new schemes . 
The baccalaureate bonds -- tax-free , offered in small denominations and usually containing a provision that they wo n't be called before maturity -- seem to be tailor-made for college savers . 
Their compounding effect is also alluring . 
But Richard Anderson , head of the Forum for College Financing Alternatives , at Columbia University , a research group partly financed by the federal government , says zeros are particularly ill-suited . 
Their price falls further than that of other bonds when inflation and interest rates kick up . 
Issuing states generally limit the guarantees to in-state institutions , however , and buyers get refunds without much interest if the children do n't attend the specified schools . 
The issue here may be the soundness of the guarantee . 
Prepayments , much like mutual-fund purchases , are pooled for investment . 
One problem is that the Internal Revenue Service has decided that the investment earnings and gains of the sponsors ' funds are taxable . 
And they 're leaning more toward fixed income , whose returns after tax have trailed tuition increases . 
Florida and Wyoming have backed up their guarantees with the full faith and credit of the state governments , meaning that taxpayers will pick up any slack . 
Not so Michigan . 
Its plan is set up as an independent agency . 
Along the way , Mr. Tharp omitted a total of $ 1.5 million from his receipts reported on federal tax returns for three years . 
The returns landed in the hands of an Internal Revenue Service criminal investigator , Samuel James Baker . 
Unknown to Mr. Tharp , he had fouled his net on a special IRS project to catch catfish farmers and haulers inclined to cheat on their taxes . 
A lot of taxpayers out there are n't as paranoid as one might think . 
Many professions long have seemed to be targets because of the exotic or ludicrous efforts of some members to offset high income with fake losses from phony tax shelters : dentists who invested in dubiously dubbed foreign films or airline pilots who raised racehorses on their days off . 
Many professions long have seemed to be targets because of the exotic or ludicrous efforts of some members to offset high income with fake losses from phony tax shelters : dentists who invested in dubiously dubbed foreign films or airline pilots who raised racehorses on their days off . Mail-order ministers have been squelched . 
Once such abuses become so pervasive , the IRS builds another factor into its secret computer formula for selecting returns for audit and does n't need special projects for them . 
Many openings for mass cheating , such as questionable tax shelters and home offices , have gaped so broadly that Congress has passed stringent laws to close them . 
Unreported alimony income can be spotted by computer because a payer of alimony -LRB- who gets a deduction -RRB- must report the former spouse 's Social Security number . 
But while IRS computers focus routinely on target groups like these , the agency has assigned many agents to special projects that need more personal attention . 
Impetus for the direct-seller project came from a congressional hearing some years back . 
It prompted an IRS study that found many sellers were concealing income and treating large amounts of nondeductible travel and other personal expenses as business costs , Mr. Washburn says . 
The Tax Court recently denied business deductions by Mr. and Mrs. Peter S. Rubin of Cherry Hill , N.J. , who both were part-time distributors of Amway products in addition to their regular jobs as sales people in other fields . 
For 1984 , they reported gross income of $ 1,647 from Amway sales , offset by expenses totaling $ 16,746 -- including car costs of $ 6,805 and travel and entertainment costs of $ 5,088 . 
The independent-contractor project , which began in 1988 , involves about 350 IRS agents . 
The number of misclassified workers may be in the millions , mostly paid by small firms . 
But a medical clinic with about 20 employees wrongly listed all of them -- including physicians and receptionists -- as independent contractors . 
The IRS assessed the clinic $ 350,000 in back payroll taxes . 
Revenue-short states also are becoming more aggressive pursuers of tax delinquents , and perhaps none tracks them down with more relish than does New York since it acquired an $ 80 million computer system in 1985 . 
The state 's tax enforcers have amassed data bases from other New York agencies that license or register professionals and businesses ; from exchange agreements with the IRS , 24 other states , and two Canadian provinces , and even from phonebook Yellow Pages . 
The state has combed through records relating to architects , stockbrokers , lawyers in the New York City area , construction workers from out of the state , and homeowners who claim to be residents of other states -- especially Florida , which has no personal income tax . 
The department has collected over $ 6.5 million from brokers so far and recommended more than 30 of them for criminal prosecution . 
In the early stage of checking people with incomes exceeding $ 500,000 who were filing nonresident returns , it squeezed $ 7.5 million out of a man who was posing as a Florida resident . 
But that does n't mean `` half of the students attending Berkeley '' will be admitted this way . 
One of the plan 's authors has defended the `` socioeconomic disadvantage '' category as perhaps making more sense than the current affirmative-action preferences based on race . 
FOR THOSE WHO DELIGHT in the misfortune of others , read on . 
Most of us know a sucker . 
But what we may not know is just what makes somebody a sucker . 
`` These people are very skilled at finding out what makes a person tick , '' says Kent Neal , chief of the economic-crime unit of the Broward County State Attorney 's Office in Fort Lauderdale , Fla. , a major haven for boiler rooms . 
John Blodgett agrees -- and he ought to know . 
The most obvious pitch , of course , is the lure of big returns . 
`` We 're all a little greedy . 
`` The overnight success story is part of our culture , and our society puts an emphasis on it with lotteries and Ed McMahon making millionaires out of people , '' says Michael Cunningham , an associate professor of psychology at the University of Kentucky in Louisville . 
Adds Spencer Barasch , branch chief for enforcement at the SEC in Fort Worth , Texas : `` Why do people play the lottery when the odds are great against them ? 
Between 1978 and 1987 , for instance , SH Oil in Winter Haven , Fla. , sold interests in oil wells to a very select group of local residents , while turning away numerous other eager investors . 
The owner of the company , Stephen Smith , who has since pleaded guilty to state and federal fraud charges , confided to investors that he had a secret agreement with Amoco Oil Co. and said the location of his wells was confidential , according to a civil suit filed in a Florida state court by the Florida comptroller 's office . 
At times , salesmen may embellish the inside information with `` the notion that this is some slightly shady , slightly illegal investment the person is being included in , '' says Mr. Cunningham . 
It also adds to the mystery of the venture . 
Mr. Blodgett , the boiler-room veteran , believes that for many investors , the get-rich-quick scams carry a longed-for element of excitement . 
`` Once people got into it , I was allowing them to live a dream , '' he says . 
He phoned them with updates on the investment , such as `` funny things that happened at the well that week , '' he says . 
For some investors , it 's the appearances that leave them deceived . 
`` The trappings of success go a long way -- wearing the right clothes , doing the right things , '' says Paul Andreassen , an associate professor of psychology at Harvard . 
Conservative appearances make people think it 's a conservative investment . 
But Mr. Wenz , who says he lost $ 43,000 in one precious-metals deal and $ 39,000 in another , says a salesman `` used a business-venture approach '' with him , sending investment literature , a contract limiting the firm 's liability , and an insurance policy . 
Still others are stung by a desire to do both well and good , says Douglas Watson , commanding officer of the Los Angeles Police Department 's bunko-forgery division . 
But hardly the only ones 
Psychologists say isolated people who do n't discuss their investments with others are particularly at risk for fraud . 
Often con artists will try to disarm their victims by emphasizing similarities between them . 
They say the broker took them out for lunch frequently . 
He urged them to refer their friends , who also lost money . 
`` It 's not uncommon for these guys to send pictures of themselves or their families to ingratiate themselves to their clients , '' says Terree Bowers , chief of the major-frauds section of the U.S. attorney 's office in Los Angeles . 
`` We 've seen cases where salesmen will affect the accent of the region of the country they are calling . 
Experts say that whatever a person 's particular weak point , timing is crucial . 
People may be particularly vulnerable to flim-flam pitches when they are in the midst of a major upheaval in their lives . 
`` Sometimes when people are making big changes , retiring from their jobs , moving to a new area , they lose their bearings , '' says Maury Elvekrog , a licensed psychologist who is now an investment adviser and principal in Seger-Elvekrog Inc. , a Birmingham , Mich. , investment-counseling firm . 
`` These people are n't necessarily stupid or naive . 
Nick Cortese thinks that 's what happened to him . 
Mr. Cortese , a 33-year-old Delta Air Lines engineer , invested some $ 2,000 in penny stocks through a broker who promised quick returns . 
`` We were saving up to buy a house , and my wife was pregnant , '' says Mr. Cortese . 
`` It was just before the Christmas holidays , and I figured we could use some extra cash . '' 
`` Maybe it was just a vulnerable time , '' says Mr. Cortese . 
Two seats on the Big Board were sold yesterday for $ 455,000 , and then $ 500,000 . 
The previous sale was $ 436,000 on Oct. 17 
The previous sale was $ 436,000 on Oct. 17 ; the last time prices were that low was November 1985 , when a seat sold for $ 425,000 . 
FOX HUNTING HAS been defined as the unspeakable in pursuit of the inedible , but at least it 's exercise . 
At least it has a little dash . 
Like trying to buy life insurance , for instance , an endeavor notably lacking in dash . 
Over the past decade or two , while I was thinking about fox hunting , the insurance industry has spawned an incredible number of products , variations on products , and variations on the variations . 
Besides term life and whole life -LRB- the old standbys -RRB- , we now have universal life , universal variable life , flexible adjustable universal life , policies with persistency bonuses , policies festooned with exotic riders , living benefit policies , and on and on . 
First , generalize . 
If all you want is death-benefit coverage , pure insurance -- a term policy -- gives you maximum bang for your buck , within limits . 
But `` term '' means just that 
It may also stipulate that the insured must pass another medical exam before renewal 
It may also stipulate that the insured must pass another medical exam before renewal ; if you flunk -- which means you need insurance more than ever -- you may not be able to buy it . 
Amex said it would charge me $ 576 a year for $ 100,000 of coverage -- and would pay me back all the premiums I put in if I canceled the policy after 10 years . 
Second , the $ 5,760 I 'd get back would be much diminished in purchasing power by 10 years of inflation 
Third and most important , Amex would charge me a far higher premium than other reputable companies would on a straight term policy for the same amount 
Third and most important , Amex would charge me a far higher premium than other reputable companies would on a straight term policy for the same amount ; I 'd be paying so heavily just to have the option of getting my premiums back that I 'd almost have to cancel to make the whole thing worthwhile . 
Which goes to show that the First Law applies in insurance as in anything else 
This is worth remembering when insurers and their salesmen try to sell you permanent insurance , the kind that amasses cash value . 
The word `` death '' can not be escaped entirely by the industry , but salesmen dodge it wherever possible or cloak it in euphemisms , preferring to talk about `` savings '' and `` investment '' instead . 
That is gilding the lily . 
The fact is that as a savings or investment vehicle , insurance generally runs a poor second to any direct investment you might make in the same things the insurance company is putting your money into . 
That 's because you have to pay for the insurance portion of the policy and the effort required to sell and service the whole package . 
And in most cases , a huge hunk of your premium in the initial year or two of the the policy is , in effect , paying the salesman 's commission as well 
The simplest , most traditional form of permanent insurance is the straight whole life policy . 
One newer wrinkle , so called single-premium life -LRB- you pay for the whole policy at once -RRB- , has been immensely popular in recent years for tax reasons 
I 'm not prepared in any case to put that much money into a policy immediately , so I look into the broad category called universal life . 
Hugely popular , it is far more flexible than straight whole life . 
I can adjust the amount of insurance I want against the amount going into investment 
Also , some policy illustrations assume that mortality costs will decline or that I will get some sort of dividend bonus after the 10th year . 
At a back-yard barbecue , for example , a friend boasts that she 'll only have to pay premiums on her John Hancock policy for seven years and that her death benefits will then be `` guaranteed . '' 
Yes , he says , premiums on such variable-rate coverage can be structured to `` vanish '' after a certain period -- but usually only if interest rates stay high enough to generate sufficient cash to cover the annual cost of insurance protection . 
So-called living-benefits provisions also merit a close inspection . 
Offered by insurers that include Security-Connecticut Life Insurance Co. , Jackson National Life Insurance Co. , and National Travelers Life Insurance Co. , these policy riders let me tap a portion of my death benefits while I 'm still alive . 
Some provisions would let me collect a percentage of the policy 's face value to pay for long-term care such as nursing-home stays 
Insureres selling these policies market them directly to the public or otherwise do n't use commissioned salesmen 
I compared one universal policy for $ 130,000 face amount from such an insurer , American Life Insurance Corp. of Lincoln , Neb. , with a similar offering from Equitable Life Assurance Society of the U.S. , which operates through 11,000 commissioned salesmen . 
After one year I could walk away from the Ameritas policy with $ 792 , but Id get only $ 14 from the Equitable . 
The difference is magnified by time , too . 
Well , not yet . 
I 'm thinking about using the $ 871 annual premium to finance a trip to Paris first . 
Mr. Cawthorn said in an interview that sales will show an increase from a year ago of `` somewhat less than 10 % . '' 
Mr. Cawthorn said the profit growth in the latest quarter was due to the sale of two Rorer drugs . 
Asilone , an antacid , was sold to Boots PLC , London . 
As the gain from the sales indicates , operating profit was `` significantly '' below the year-earlier level , Mr. Cawthorn said . 
Rorer in July had projected lower third-quarter operating profit but higher profit for all of 1989 . 
Mr. Cawthorn attributed the decline in third-quarter operating profit to the stronger dollar , which reduces the value of overseas profit when it is translated into dollars ; to accelerated buying of Rorer products in the second quarter because of a then-pending July 1 price increase , and to higher marketing expenses for Rorer 's Maalox antacid , whose sales and market share in the U.S. had slipped in the first half of 1989 . 
He said Rorer opted to sell Asilone and Thrombinar to raise revenue that would `` kick start '' its increased marketing efforts behind Maalox , still its top-selling product with about $ 215 million in world-wide sales in 1988 . 
He said Rorer will spend $ 15 million to $ 20 million more on Maalox advertising and promotion in the second half of 1989 than in the year-earlier period . 
It was the second anniversary of the 1987 crash , but this time it was different . 
Blue chips led the march up in heavy trading . 
The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 39.55 points to 2683.20 . 
The 30 industrials led the market higher from the opening bell as foreign buyers stepped in . 
By afternoon , the broader market joined the advance in full strength . 
Standard & Poor 's 500-stock Index rose 5.37 to 347.13 and the Nasdaq composite index jumped 7.52 to 470.80 . 
Traders said a variety of factors triggered the rally . 
The consumer price index rose 0.2 % in September , while many economists were looking for a 0.4 % increase . 
Stock-index arbitrage trading was a minor influence in yesterday 's rally , traders said . 
Hilton rose 2 7\/8 to 100 , for example . 
Last Friday , takeover traders spilled out of Hilton , knocking the stock down 21 1\/2 to 85 . 
One floor trader noted in astonishment that nobody seemed to mind the news that British Airways is n't making a special effort to revive the UAL buy-out . 
Takeover enthusiasm may have been renewed when an investor group disclosed yesterday that it had obtained all the financing required to complete its $ 1.6 billion leveraged buy-out of American Medical International . 
But some traders thought there was less to the rally than met the eye . 
`` There is no strength behind this rally , '' asserted Chung Lew , head trader at Kleinwort Benson North America . 
`` It 's traders squaring positions . 
It 's not good 
The MMI is a 20-stock index that mimics the Dow Jones Industrial Average . 
By Wednesday , the outstanding October contracts amounted to 8,524 , representing about $ 1.13 billion in stock , noted Donald Selkin , head of stock-index futures research at Prudential-Bache Securities , who expects a volatile expiration today . 
Consumer stocks once again set the pace for blue-chip issues . 
IMA Acquisition , an investor group that includes First Boston and the Pritzker family of Chicago , said Chemical Bank had made arrangements for 23 other banks to provide $ 509 million in bank financing for the buy-out offer . 
Elsewhere on the takeover front , Time Warner advanced 2 5\/8 to 136 5\/8 and Warner Communications tacked on 7\/8 to 63 7\/8 . 
Paramount Communications climbed 1 1\/4 to 58 1\/2 and MCA rose 1 1\/2 to 64 ; both media companies have long been mentioned as potential acquisition candidates . 
Compaq Computer soared 4 5\/8 to 111 1\/8 on 1.8 million shares in response to the company 's announcement of plans to introduce several products next month . 
Insurance stocks continued to climb on expectations that premium rates will rise in the aftermath of the earthquake in the San Francisco area . 
Stocks of major toy makers rallied in the wake of strong third-quarter earnings reports . 
Capital Cities-ABC surged 42 5\/8 to 560 . 
Dun & Bradstreet lost 1 7\/8 to 51 7\/8 on 1.8 million shares . 
The Amex Market Value Index recorded its sharpest gain of the year by climbing 4.74 to 382.81 . 
B.A.T Industries , the most active Amex issue , rose 3\/8 to 12 3\/8 . 
In order to defuse pressure for an amendment , Mr. Mitchell and House Speaker Thomas Foley -LRB- D. , Wash . -RRB- had arranged for lawmakers to pass a statute barring flag desecration before voting on the constitutional change . 
If you think you have stress-related problems on the job , there 's good news and bad news . 
It is one of a series of studies on health commissioned by the New York Business Group , a non-profit organization with about 300 members . 
In presenting the study late last week , Dr. Warshaw estimated the cost of these types of disorders to business is substantial . 
Occupational disability related to anxiety , depression and stress costs about $ 8,000 a case in terms of worker 's compensation . 
`` We hope to sensitize employers '' to recognize the problems so they can do something about them , Dr. Warshaw said . 
The poll also noted fear of a takeover as a stress-producing event in larger companies . 
More than eight in 10 respondents reported such a stress-provoking situation in their company . 
The study , which received funding from Upjohn Co. , which makes several drugs to treat stress-related illnesses , also found 47 % of the managers said stress , anxiety and depression contribute to decreased production . 
`` We all like stress , but there 's a limit , '' says Paul D'Arcy , of Rohrer , Hibler & Replogle , a corporate psychology and management consulting firm . 
One of the best deals , though , may mean skipping Christmas dinner with the relatives . 
In recent years , the airlines had waited until the last moment to court Christmas season vacationers with bargain fares . 
That approach flopped 
So this year , the airlines are getting a jump on holiday discounts . 
They are cutting ticket prices by as much as 70 % from normal levels for travel to most U.S. locations on Dec. 24 , 25 , 29 , 30 and 31 , and Jan. 4 , 5 and 6 . 
Continental , a Texas Air Corp. unit , recently unveiled a marketing program offering free companion tickets to business-class and first-class passengers on international flights . 
That irritates many women who have n't taken their husbands ' last name . 
`` What a bunch of nonsense , '' says Jessica Crosby , president of the New York chapter of the National Association of Women Business Owners . 
Continental 's logic : It does n't want business companions abusing the promotion by falsely claiming to be related . 
But gay rights advocates are angry , too . 
Since the hurricane , Midway Airlines Inc. and American Airlines , a unit of AMR Corp. , trimmed their one-way fares to the Virgin Islands to $ 109 from prices that were at times double that before the storm . 
Some hotels in the hurricane-stricken Caribbean promise money-back guarantees . 
SENIOR CITIZENS have long received cheap air fares . 
A senior citizen between 62 and 70 saves 70 % off regular coach fare . 
THE NATION'S carriers also provide discounts to Red Cross workers , retired military personnel and medical students . 
There 's even a special fare for clergy that does n't require the usual stay over Saturday night . 
Eliminating the earnings limit would greatly help seniors and reduce the deficit . 
When his Seventh Avenue fur business here was flying high 20 years ago , Jack Purnick had 25 workers and a large factory . 
He also says he is losing money now . 
But just down Seventh Avenue , where about 75 % of U.S. fur garments are made , Larry Rosen has acquired two retail outlets , broadened his fur-making line and expanded into leather . 
The difference lies in how the two entrepreneurial furriers reacted to the foreign competition and transformation of their industry over the past 10 years . 
`` The small , good fur salon is not what it used to be , '' says Mr. Purnick , 75 years old . 
Mr. Rosen , though , believes imports have reinvigorated the industry in which he has worked for most of his 57 years . 
Import competition for U.S. furs has risen sharply since furriers started aggressively marketing `` working-girl mink '' and similar lower-priced imported furs in recent years . 
Merchants discovered a consumer largely ignored by higher-priced furriers : the younger woman -- even in her late 20s -- who never thought she could buy a mink . 
It also opened the door to furs made in South Korea , China , Hong Kong and other countries . 
Jindo Furs , a large South Korean maker , says it operates 35 retail outlets in the U.S. and plans to open 15 more by the end of next year . 
Mr. Purnick and other old-line furriers call many of the the imports unstylish and poorly made . 
But low-priced and middle-priced furriers like Mr. Purnick , who once saturated the five-block Seventh Avenue fur district , say imports have cut their sales . 
Yet Mr. Rosen has turned the import phenomenon to his advantage . 
Early in the decade he saw that fur workers in many foreign countries were willing to work longer hours at lower wages than their American counterparts and were more open to innovation . 
In 1982 , he started a factory in Greece . 
He also noticed that foreign makers were introducing many variations on the traditional fur , and he decided to follow suit . 
By combining his strengths in innovation and quality control with the lower costs of production abroad , he says he has been able to produce high-quality goods at low cost . 
Inspired by imports , Mr. Rosen now makes fur muffs , hats and flings . 
This year he produced a men 's line and offers dyed furs in red , cherry red , violet , royal blue and forest green . 
This year he produced a men 's line and offers dyed furs in red , cherry red , violet , royal blue and forest green . He has leather jackets from Turkey that are lined with eel skin and topped off with raccoon-skin collars . 
From Asia , he has mink jackets with floral patterns made by using different colored furs . This year he produced a men 's line and offers dyed furs in red , cherry red , violet , royal blue and forest green . He has leather jackets from Turkey that are lined with eel skin and topped off with raccoon-skin collars . 
Other furriers have also benefited from leathers . 
Seymour Schreibman , the 65-year-old owner of Schreibman Raphael Furs Inc. , treats the reverse side of a Persian lambskin to produce a reversible fur-and-leather garment . 
Mr. Rosen is also pushing retail sales . 
This year he bought two stores , one in Brooklyn and one in Queens . 
In other moves , Mr. Rosen says he bought a truck three years ago to reach more retailers . 
Since then he has expanded his fleet and can now bring his furs to the front door of retailers as far away as the Midwest . 
The industry enjoyed six prosperous years beginning in 1980 , but since 1986 sales have languished at their $ 1.8 billion peak . 
Large furriers such as Antonovich Inc. , Fur Vault Inc. and Evans Inc. all reported losses in their latest fiscal years . 
In addition , competition has glutted the market with both skins and coats , driving prices down . 
The animal-rights movement has n't helped sales . 
And those who did n't move some production overseas suffer labor shortages . 
But even those who have found a way to cope with the imports and the slump , fear that furs are losing part of their allure . 
`` You ca n't make a commodity out of a luxury , '' insists Mr. Purnick , the New York furrier . 
But Mr. Rosen responds : `` Whatever people want to buy , I 'll sell . 
I was appalled to read the misstatements of facts in your Oct. 13 editorial `` Colombia 's Brave Publisher . '' 
It is the right-wing guerrillas who are aligned with the drug traffickers , not the left wing . 
I suggest that The Wall Street Journal -LRB- as well as other U.S. news publications of like mind -RRB- should put its money where its mouth is 
I suggest that The Wall Street Journal -LRB- as well as other U.S. news publications of like mind -RRB- should put its money where its mouth is : Lend computer equipment to replace that damaged at El Espectador , buy ad space , publish stories under the bylines of El Espectador journalists . 
Perhaps an arrangement could be worked out to `` sponsor '' El Espectador journalists and staff by paying for added security in exchange for exclusive stories . 
Mr. Gourlay , 48 , is manager for corporate manufacturing operations 
In a speech prepared for delivery to London 's financial community , Mr. Lawson summed up current economic policy as a battle to wring inflation out of the British economy , using high interest rates as `` the essential instrument '' to carry out the campaign . 
Mr. Lawson also made it clear that he would be watching exchange rates carefully . 
A sinking pound makes imports more expensive and increases businesses ' expectations of future inflation , he argued . 
In reaffirming the current monetary policy of using high interest rates to fight inflation and shore up the pound , Mr. Lawson dismissed other approaches to managing the economy . 
Mr. Lawson 's speech , delivered at the Lord Mayor of London 's annual dinner at Mansion House , came on the heels of a grueling period for the U.K. economy . 
Two weeks ago , in a campaign to blunt inflation at home and arrest a world-wide plunge in the pound , he raised base rates a full percentage point to 15 % . 
Despite the increase , the British currency slid below a perceived threshold of three marks early last week . 
Leading up to the speech was a drumroll of economic statistics suggesting that the British war on inflation will be more bruising than previously assumed . 
Unemployment in September dropped to 1,695,000 , the lowest level since 1980 . 
In a separate speech prepared for delivery at the dinner , Robin Leigh-Pemberton , Bank of England governor , conceded that `` demand pressures were even more buoyant than had been appreciated '' when the British economy was heating up last year . 
Discussing the recent slide in stock prices , the central bank governor stated that `` the markets now appear to have steadied '' after the `` nasty jolt '' of the 190.58-point plunge in the Dow Jones Industrial Average a week ago . 
An Olivetti spokesman said the company 's factories are already beginning to produce the machine , and that it should be available in Europe by December . 
The new chip `` is a very big step in computing , and it is important that Olivetti be one of the first out on the market with this product , '' said Patricia Meagher Davis , an analyst at James Capel & Co. in London . 
Although Olivetti 's profits tumbled 40 % in the first half of this year , she believes Olivetti 's restructuring last fall and its introduction of new products will begin to bear fruit with an earnings rebound next year , especially if it can fulfill its promise to deliver the new machines by December . 
Depending on the type of software and peripherals used , the machines can serve either as the main computer in a network of many terminals -LRB- a role usually filled by a minicomputer -RRB- , as a technical workstation or as a very fast personal computer . 
`` It 's the missing link '' in Olivetti 's product line between small personal computers and higher-priced minicomputers , the Olivetti spokesman said . 
erembal , the second-largest maker of food cans in France , had 1988 sales of $ 150 million . 
The inflation adjustment also means that the maximum annual level of earnings subject to the wage tax that generates revenue for the Social Security trust fund will rise to $ 50,400 in 1990 from $ 48,000 this year . 
The inflation adjustment also means that the maximum annual level of earnings subject to the wage tax that generates revenue for the Social Security trust fund will rise to $ 50,400 in 1990 from $ 48,000 this year . As mandated by law , the tax rate will rise to 7.65 % in 1990 from 7.51 % and wo n't rise any further in the future . 
Beneficiaries aged 65 through 69 will be able to earn $ 9,360 without losing any Social Security benefits in 1990 , up from $ 8,880 this year . 
Medical-supply houses are expected to report earnings increases of about 15 % on average for the third quarter , despite sales increases of less than 10 % , analysts say . 
Suppliers were also hurt by the stronger U.S. dollar , which makes sales abroad more difficult . 
Becton , Dickinson & Co. , for example , faces stiff competition from a Japanese supplier in the important syringe market . 
Among the first of the group to post results , Abbott Laboratories said third-quarter net income jumped 14 % to $ 196 million , or 88 cents a share , from $ 172 million , or 76 cents a share , a year earlier . 
Baxter International Inc. yesterday reported net climbed 20 % in the third period to $ 102 million , or 34 cents a share , from $ 85 million , or 28 cents a share , a year earlier . 
But not every company expects to report increased earnings . 
C.R. Bard Inc. yesterday said third-quarter net plunged 51 % to $ 9.9 million , or 18 cents a share , from $ 20 million , or 35 cents a share , a year earlier . 
Sales fell 1.2 % to $ 190.1 million from $ 192.5 million . 
Takeover speculation , which has been buoying stocks of supply houses , may also ease , says Peter Sidoti , an analyst with Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc . 
Analysts say the handful of hospital companies that are still publicly traded are benefiting from several trends . 
Net for the quarter ended Sept. 30 fell to $ 150.8 million , or $ 1.20 a share , from $ 223 million , or $ 1.71 a share , a year ago . 
The lack of a strong product at the high end of Digital 's line was a significant drag on sales . 
Digital hopes to address that with the debut of its first mainframe-class computers next Tuesday . 
But analysts said that against the backdrop of a nearly 40-point rise in the Dow Jones Industrial Average , that should n't necessarily be taken as a sign of great strength . 
`` I think the next few quarters will be difficult , '' said Steven Milunovich of First Boston . 
`` Margins will remain under pressure , and when the new mainframe does ship , I 'm not sure it will be a big winner . 
One troubling aspect of DEC 's results , analysts said , was its performance in Europe . 
DEC said its overseas business , which now accounts for more than half of sales , improved in the quarter . 
That gain probably translated into about 5 % to 7 % in dollar terms , well below recent quarters ' gains of above 20 % , reckons Jay Stevens of Dean Witter Reynolds . 
Marc Schulman , with UBS Securities in New York , dropped his estimate of DEC 's full-year net to $ 6.80 a share from $ 8 . 
Although overall revenues were stronger , Mr. Schulman said , DEC `` drew down its European backlog '' and had flat world-wide orders overall . 
He said current expectations are for an entry level machine to be shipped in December , with all of the more sophisticated versions out by June . 
Colgate said net income for the quarter rose to $ 76.7 million , or $ 1.06 a share , on sales that increased 6 % to $ 1.3 billion . 
In the year-earlier period , Colgate posted net income of $ 60.2 million , or 88 cents a share . 
Operating profit at Colgate 's U.S. household products and personal care businesses , which include such well-known brands as Colgate toothpaste and Fab laundry detergent , jumped more than 40 % , the company said . 
`` We 've done a lot to improve -LRB- U.S. . -RRB- results and a lot more will be done , '' Mr. Mark said . 
Colgate 's results were at the high end of the range of analysts ' forecasts . 
The scope of the improvement in the U.S. business caught some analysts by surprise . 
The company 's domestic business , especially its household products division , has performed poorly for years . 
For the nine months , net increased 14 % to $ 217.5 million , or $ 3.09 a share . 
The company earned $ 191.1 million , or $ 2.79 a share , in the year-earlier period . 
Colgate 's 1988 net income included $ 40.1 million , or 59 cents a share , from discontinued operations . 
The sale of the system has been challenged in a class-action suit on behalf of unit holders filed last week in a Delaware court , USACafes said . 
AT&T said its amended pension program will nearly double to 34,000 the number of managers eligible to retire with immediate pension payments . 
AT&T said third-quarter net income grew , despite stiff competition in all of the company 's markets . 
Net income rose to $ 699 million , or 65 cents a share , from the year-earlier $ 587 million , or 55 cents a share . 
Under the amended pension program , AT&T managers who have at least five years of service will have five years added to their age and length of service for pension purposes . 
An AT&T spokeswoman said the company would likely replace about one-third of its managers who choose to retire with new employees . 
Analysts hailed the sweetened pension package , which they said had been the subject of rumors for several months . 
But other analysts expressed disappointment that the cost-cutting move wo n't result in even greater earnings growth . 
`` This is a good move , but it only gets you to where people 's expectations already are , '' in terms of earnings growth , said Joel D. Gross , an analyst with Donaldson , Lufkin & Jenrette . 
For the nine months , AT&T said net income was $ 1.99 billion , or $ 1.85 a share , up 19 % from $ 1.67 billion , or $ 1.56 a share . 
Every dollar 's worth of stock in the Los Angeles money manager 's portfolio is traded seven or eight times a year , the firm estimates . 
But wait a second . 
Westridge Capital 's frenetic trading reflects the changes sweeping through the previously sleepy world of indexing . 
Institutional investors have poured $ 210 billion into stock and bond indexing as a cheap and easy form of investment management that promises to post average market returns . 
And the fees investors pay for indexing run a few pennies for each $ 100 of assets -- a fraction of the cost of active managers . 
But today , indexing is moving from a passive investment strategy to an increasingly active one . 
`` Indexing has been the most single successful investment concept in the last decade , but the index money has been just sort of sitting there , '' says Seth M. Lynn , president of Axe Core Investors Inc. , an indexer based in Tarrytown , N.Y . 
`` Now the interest is in what else can I do with that money . '' 
Among the souped-up indexing strategies : Indexed portfolios can be built around thousands of stocks , or just a few dozen , rather than being restricted to the S&P 500 companies . 
One reason for these hybrids is that indexing 's rapid growth is slowing , particularly for those `` plain vanilla '' funds that mirror the S&P 500 . 
A further problem is razor-thin profits . 
Plain-vanilla funds have become so commonplace that fees they can charge have plunged to almost nothing , and in some cases are just that . 
To land customers for their well-paying stock custodial business , big banks sometimes will throw in basic indexing services for free . 
Strategies vary for Westridge Capital , which has $ 300 million under management . 
And in some months , he buys stock-index futures and not stocks at all . 
`` By their nature , our trades are very short-term and are going to create high turnover , '' Mr. Carder adds . 
Big indexer Bankers Trust Co. also uses futures in a strategy that on average has added one percentage point to its enhanced fund 's returns . 
J. Thomas Allen , president of Pittsburgh-based Advanced Investment Management Inc. , agrees it 's a good idea to jump between the S&P 500 stocks and futures . 
But some indexers make little or no use of futures , saying that these instruments present added risks for investors . 
Prudential currently is seeking approval to offer a new fund offering a return equal to the S&P 500 index plus 5\/100 of a percentage point . 
There are many other strategies to bolster the returns of index funds . 
LIMITED RISK FUNDS : 
These guarantee protection against stock market declines while still passing along most gains . 
Here a fund may promise to pay back , say , $ 95 of every $ 100 invested for a year , even if the market goes much lower . 
The fund could invest $ 87 for one year in Treasury bills yielding 8 % to return the guaranteed $ 95 . 
Instead of hiring one of the many active managers specializing in growth stocks , indexers can design a portfolio around the same stocks ; the portfolio will be maintained by computer , reducing both fees and , in theory , risk -LRB- because of the large number of stocks -RRB- . 
Instead of hiring one of the many active managers specializing in growth stocks , indexers can design a portfolio around the same stocks 
`` We see a lot of interest in those kind of things , '' says Frank Salerno , a vice president of Bankers Trust . 
This is an index fund with a bet . 
Instead of replicating the S&P 500 or some other index exactly , some stocks are overweighted or underweighted in the portfolio . 
One simple approach is to exclude S&P 500 companies considered bankruptcy candidates 
One simple approach is to exclude S&P 500 companies considered bankruptcy candidates ; this can avoid weak sisters , but also can hurt when a company like Chrysler Corp. rebounds . 
Indexes can be constructed to serve social goals , such as eliminating the stocks of companies doing business in South Africa . 
The Big Board reported that short interest dropped to 523,920,214 shares as of Oct. 13 from 547,347,585 shares in mid-September . 
Fluctuation in short interest of certain stocks also may be caused partly by arbitraging . 
Varity Corp. led the Big Board list of largest short volumes with 12,822,563 shares . 
Chemical Waste Management posted the biggest increase in short volume on the New York exchange , up 3,383,477 shares to 5,267,238 . 
The Amex short interest volume leader again was Texas Air Corp. , rising to 3,820,634 shares from 3,363,949 . 
Bolar Pharmaceutical Co. posted the largest volume increase , 552,302 shares , to 2,157,656 . 
The company is under an investigation concerning procedures to gain Food and Drug Administration approval of generic drugs . 
First Iberian Fund led the percentage increases , rising to 73,100 shares from 184 . 
You are absolutely wrong , however , in opining that this position is some kind of `` flip-flop , '' something newly arrived at as a result of reading the opinion polls . 
Although you may have forgotten , public opinion about Gen. Noriega is where it is in large measure because of my investigation of his years of involvement in narcotics smuggling -LRB- and simultaneous work as a U.S. operative -RRB- . 
The public made up its mind about Gen. Noriega largely as a result of the hearings I chaired in the Subcommittee on Terrorism and Narcotics of the Foreign Relations Committee on Feb. 8 , 9 , 10 and 11 , 1988 , and again on April 4 , 1988 . 
Those hearings also highlighted how Gen. Noriega was able to use his relationships with these agencies to delay U.S. action against him , and to exploit the administration 's obsession with overthrowing the Sandinistas to protect his own drug-dealing . 
As the report issued by the subcommittee concluded , `` Our government did nothing regarding Gen. Noriega 's drug business and substantial criminal involvement because the first priority was the Contra war . 
Unfortunately , this problem continued even after Gen. Noriega 's indictment . 
Throughout 1988 and this year , I and others in Congress have pressed the U.S. to develop a plan for pushing this `` narcokleptocrat '' out of Panama . 
For Vietnamese , these are tricky , often treacherous , times . 
Mr. Chan used to be an oddity in Hanoi : a private entrepreneur . 
Mr. Chan , now 64 years old , invented a fountain pen he and his family produced from plastic waste . Later , he marketed glue . 
Both products were immensely popular . 
For his troubles , Mr. Chan was jailed three times between 1960 and 1974 . 
Though his operation was registered and used only scrap , he was accused of conducting illegal business and possessing illegal materials . 
After years of experimenting , Mr. Chan produced a heavy-duty bicycle tire that outlasted its state-produced rival . 
By 1982 , he was selling thousands of tires . 
Newspapers published articles about him , and he was hailed as `` the tire king . '' 
District police in 1983 descended on his suburban home , which he and his large family used as both residence and factory , and demanded proof the house and equipment were his . 
He produced it . 
He was further questioned to determine if he was `` a real working man or an exploiter . '' 
But a few days later the police accused him of stealing electricity , acquiring rubber without permission and buying stolen property . 
Warned he was to be jailed again , he fled to the countryside . 
His family was given three hours to leave before the house and contents were confiscated . 
After six months on the run , Mr. Chan learned the order for his arrest had been canceled . 
He rejoined his family in January 1984 and began the long struggle for justice , pressing everyone from Hanoi municipal officials to National Assembly deputies for restoration of his rights . 
In 1988 , 18 months after the sixth congress formally endorsed family-run private enterprise , district authorities allowed Mr. Chan to resume work . 
By late last year he was invited back as `` the tire king '' to display his products at a national exhibition . 
First , however , he has unfinished business . 
When district authorities allowed him to resume manufacturing , they released only one of his machines . 
After the sixth congress , journalists seized the opportunity provided by the liberalization to probe previously taboo subjects . 
Mr. Ngoc , 57 years old , had solid reformist credentials 
Mr. Ngoc , 57 years old , had solid reformist credentials : He had lost his official position in the association in he early 1980s because he questioned the intrusion of politics into literature . 
Circulation soared as the weekly went way beyond standard literary themes to cover Vietnamese society and its ills . 
One article recounted a decade-long struggle by a wounded soldier to prove , officially , he was alive . 
Van Nghe quickly made influential enemies . 
`` Those who manage ideology and a large number of writers reacted badly '' to the restyled paper , says Lai Nguyen An , a literary critic . 
`` Under Mr. Ngoc , Van Nghe protected the people instead of the government , '' says Nguyen Duy , a poet who is the paper 's bureau chief for southern Vietnam . 
`` The paper reflected the truth . 
Mrs. Thi did n't wait for the reforms to get her start . 
She charged ahead of the government and the law to establish Hochiminh City Food Co. as the biggest rice dealer in the country . 
Her success , which included alleviating an urban food shortage in the early 1980s , helped persuade Hanoi to take the reform path . 
A lifelong revolutionary with little education who fought both the French and the U.S.-backed Saigon regime , she switched effortlessly to commerce after the war . 
Following Mr. Linh 's appointment as secretary-general of the party at the sixth congress , Mrs. Thi has become the darling of `` doi moi '' , the Vietnamese version of perestroika . 
Foreign publications have responded with articles declaring her Vietnam 's richest woman . 
The heart of the business is the purchase of rice and other commodities , such as corn and coffee , from farmers in the south , paying with fertilizer , farm tools and other items . 
The company operates a fleet of trucks and boats to transport the commodities to its warehouses . 
Mrs. Thi says Hochiminh City Food last year increased pretax profit 60 % to the equivalent of about $ 2.7 million on sales of $ 150 million . 
She is almost cavalier about the possibility Vietnam 's reforms will create rivals on her home turf . 
`` I do n't mind the competition inside the country , '' she says . 
The only securities so far to be singled out are those issued by Bay View Federal Savings & Loan . 
Your Oct. 5 editorial `` A Democratic Tax Cut '' contained an error . 
In the third paragraph it referred to the senators seeking loophole suggestions from lobbyists for various sectors of the economy . 
The only significant commercial banana farmers in the U.S. are in Hawaii . 
In the year-ago period , the company earned $ 12.9 million , or 45 cents a share , on sales of $ 247 million . 
Nonetheless , Chairman Roger W. Johnson said he expects the company to be profitable in the current quarter . 
Mr. Johnson said Western Digital 's plant in Puerto Rico was affected by Hurricane Hugo , losing three days ' production because of the storm , which wrecked much of the Caribbean island 's infrastructure . 
Although the plant itself was n't damaged , Mr. Johnson said millions of dollars in first-quarter revenue were lost . 
`` The other areas of the business -- storage and microcomputers -- were very good , '' Mr. Johnson said . 
He said Western Digital has reacted swiftly to the movement to video graphics array , VGA , graphics technology from the old enhanced graphics adapter , EGA , which has a lower resolution standard , technology and now is one of the leading producers of these newer units . 
Still , Mr. Johnson said , `` our stock is grossly undervalued . '' 
Storage , which includes computer controllers and 3.5-inch disk drives , represents nearly two-thirds of the company 's business . 
Computer parts are getting ever smaller , Mr. Johnson said , a shrinking that has propelled laptops into position as the fastest-growing segment of the computer business . 
About half of Western Digital 's business is overseas , and Mr. Johnson expects that proportion to continue . 
Plans to dissolve many of the trade barriers within Europe in 1992 creates significant opportunities for the company , he said , particularly since Western Digital already manufactures there . 
But under the bank 's proposed statutes , an assembly of shareholders must approve board members . 
BNL , which is controlled by the Italian Treasury , was rocked by the disclosure last month that its Atlanta branch extended more than $ 3 billion in unauthorized credits to Iraq . 
The year-earlier figures included $ 9.9 million , or three cents a share , in income from discontinued operations . 
Income from continuing operations was up 26 % . 
The travel , investment services , insurance and banking concern added $ 110 million to reserves for credit losses at its American Express Bank unit , boosting the reserve to $ 507 million as of Sept. 30 . 
At the American Express Travel Related Services Co. unit , net rose 17 % to a record $ 240.8 million on a 19 % revenue increase . 
American Express card charge volume rose 12 % . 
At IDS Financial Services , the financial planning and mutual fund unit , net rose 19 % to a record $ 47.6 million on a 33 % revenue gain . 
American Express Bank earnings fell 50 % to $ 21.3 million from $ 42.5 million despite a 29 % revenue gain . 
Shearson Lehman Hutton Holdings Inc. , as previously reported , had net of $ 65.9 million , reversing a $ 3.5 million loss a year earlier 
American Express 's share of Shearson 's earnings was $ 41 million , after preferred stock dividends 
For the nine months , American Express said net rose 11 % to $ 899.8 million , or $ 2.09 a share , from $ 807.5 million , or $ 1.89 a share . 
The aerospace and financial services concern said net income fell 5 % to $ 59.5 million from $ 62.8 million . 
The company said that improved results in its financial-services sector were negated by increased costs in its government contract business , lower operating earnings in its commercial-products sector and soft automotive markets . 
For the nine months , Textron reported net of $ 182.1 million , or $ 2.06 a share , on revenue of $ 5.41 billion . 
Textron said that nine-months ' results do n't include earnings of Avdel PLC , a British maker of industrial fasteners , but do include interest costs of $ 16.4 million on borrowings related to the proposed purchase of Avdel . 
Although the proposal must be approved by federal Judge Harold C. Abramson , W. Herbert Hunt has agreed to the Peruvian mineral concern 's proposal . 
The tentative agreement between the IRS and Nelson Bunker Hunt is awaiting U.S. Justice Department approval . 
In both cases , Minpeco and Manufacturers Hanover have been fighting ferociously over their shares of the pie . 
With support from the IRS , Manufacturers Hanover has filed suit asking Judge Abramson to subordinate Minpeco 's claim to those of Manufacturer Hanover and the IRS . 
`` The thing is so fluid right now that there 's really no way to say what will happen , '' says Justice Department attorney Grover Hartt III , who represents the IRS in the case . 
The 473 funds tracked by the Investment Company Institute , a Washington-based trade group , rose to $ 356.1 billion , a record . 
Yields on money funds dropped in the week ended Tuesday , according to Donoghue 's Money Fund Report , a Holliston , Mass. , newsletter . 
The 142 institutional-type money funds rose $ 2.23 billion to $ 85.49 billion . 
The predicament , he added , was similar to the Hong Kong 1982-83 property-price collapse , which exposed the involvement of Bank Bumiputra 's former subsidiary in the colony in the largest banking scandal in Malaysia 's history . 
Both episodes wiped out Bank Bumiputra 's shareholders ' funds . 
Each time , the bank 's 90 % shareholder -- Petroliam Nasional Bhd. , or Petronas , the national oil company -- has been called upon to rescue the institution . 
Tan Sri Basir said the capital restructuring plan has been approved by Malaysia 's Capital Issues Committee and central bank . 
Once the plan is approved , Tan Sri Basir said , most of Bank Bumiputra 's nonperforming loans will have been fully provided for and the bank will be on track to report a pretax profit of between M$ 160 million and M$ 170 million for the fiscal year ending March 31 . 
As well as the M$ 1.23 billion in provisions announced on Oct. 6 , the restructuring package covers an additional M$ 450 million in provisions made in earlier years but never reflected in a reduction of the bank 's paid-up capital . 
Heidi Ehman might have stepped from a recruiting poster for young Republicans . 
White , 24 years old , a singer in her church choir , she symbolizes a generation that gave its heart and its vote to Ronald Reagan . 
No longer . 
When the Supreme Court opened the door this year to new restrictions on abortion , Ms. Ehman opened her mind to Democratic politics . 
`` This is one where I cross party lines , '' she says , rejecting the anti-abortion stance of Rep. Florio 's opponent , Reagan-Republican Rep. James Courter . 
`` People my age thought it was n't going to be an issue . 
Polls bear out this warning , but after a decade of increased Republican influence here , the new politics of abortion have contributed to a world turned upside down for Mr. Courter . 
Unless he closes the gap , Republicans risk losing not only the governorship but also the assembly next month . 
This change comes less from a shift in public opinion , which has n't changed much on abortion over the past decade , than in the boundaries of the debate . 
Before July , pro-choice voters could safely make political decisions without focusing narrowly on abortion . 
Now , the threat of further restrictions adds a new dimension , bringing an upsurge in political activity by abortion-rights forces . 
`` If Webster had n't happened , you would n't be here , '' Linda Bowker tells a reporter in the Trenton office of the National Organization for Women . 
New Jersey is a proving ground for this aggressive women's-rights movement this year . 
The infusion of activists can bring a clash of cultures . 
In Cherry Hill , the National Abortion Rights Action League , whose goal is to sign up 50,000 pro-choice voters , targets a union breakfast to build labor support for its cause . 
The league organizers seem more a fit with a convention next door of young aerobics instructors in leotards than the beefy union leaders 
The league organizers seem more a fit with a convention next door of young aerobics instructors in leotards than the beefy union leaders ; `` I wish I could go work out , '' says a slim activist . 
No age group is more sensitive than younger voters , like Ms. Ehman . 
A year ago this fall , New Jersey voters under 30 favored George Bush by 56 % to 39 % over Michael Dukakis , according to a survey then by Rutgers University 's Eagleton Institute . 
A matching Eagleton-Newark Star Ledger poll last month showed a complete reversal . 
Abortion alone ca n't explain this shift , but New Jersey is a model of how so personal an issue can become a baseline of sorts in judging a candidate . 
Looking back , he says he erred by stating his `` personal '' opposition to abortion instead of assuring voters that he would n't impose his views on `` policy '' as governor . 
`` He does n't know himself , '' Kathy Stanwick of the Abortion Rights League says of Mr. Courter 's position . 
Even abortion opponents , however angry with Mr. Florio , ca n't hide their frustration with the Republican 's ambivalence . 
Moreover , by stepping outside the state 's pro-choice tradition , Mr. Courter aggravates fears that he is too conservative as well on more pressing concerns such as auto insurance rates and the environment . 
The same partnership is now crucial to Mr. Courter 's fortunes , but the abortion issue is only a reminder of the gap between his record and that of the more moderate , pro-choice Gov. Kean . 
Kean forces play down any differences with Mr. Courter , but this history makes it harder for the conservative to run against government . 
Fluent in Spanish from his days in the Peace Corps , Mr. Courter actively courts minority voters but seems oddly over his head . 
Yet minutes after promising to appoint Hispanics to high posts in state government , he is unable to say whether he has ever employed any in his congressional office . 
`` I do n't think we do now , '' he says . 
Asked the same question after his appearance , Democrat Florio identifies a staff member by name and explains her whereabouts today . 
In the opinion of many , he has n't stopped running since , even though he declined a rematch with Gov. Kean in 1985 . 
His base in South Jersey and on the House Energy and Commerce Committee helped him sustain a network of political-action committees to preserve his edge . 
More than ever , his pro-consumer and pro-environment record is in sync with the state . 
Auto insurance rates are soaring . 
A toxic-waste-dump fire destroyed part of an interstate highway this summer . 
Mr. Florio savors this vindication , but at age 52 , the congressman is also a product of his times and losses . 
He speaks for the death penalty as if reading from Exodus 21 
He speaks for the death penalty as if reading from Exodus 21 ; to increase state revenue he focuses not on `` taxes '' but on `` audits '' to cut waste . 
Hard-hitting consultants match ads with Mr. Courter 's team , and Mr. Florio retools himself as the lean , mean Democratic fighting machine of the 1990s . 
Appealing to a young audience , he scraps an old reference to Ozzie and Harriet and instead quotes the Grateful Dead . 
The Democratic lawmaker fits a pattern of younger reformers arising out of old machines , but his ties to Camden remain a sore point because of the county 's past corruption . 
Mr. Florio 's forcefulness on the abortion issue after the Webster ruling divides some of his old constituency . 
Pasquale Pignatelli , an unlikely but enthusiastic pipe major in an Essex County Irish bagpipe band , speaks sadly of Mr. Florio . 
`` I am a devout Catholic , '' says Mr. Pignatelli , a 40-year-old health officer . 
`` If you want more opinions ask my wife . 
But many economists were not nearly as jubilant . 
`` I think inflation is going to pick up through the fall , '' said Joel Popkin , a specialist on inflation who runs an economic consulting firm here . 
But retail energy prices declined 0.9 % in September . 
Still , some analysts insisted that the worst of the inflation is behind . 
In both 1987 and 1988 , consumer prices rose 4.4 % . 
Mr. Yardeni predicted that world business competition will continue to restrain prices . 
`` The bottom line is , it seems to me that the economic environment has become very , very competitve for a lot of businesses , '' he said . 
`` Back in 1987-88 , business was operating at fairly tight capacity , so businesses felt they could raise prices . '' 
The mild inflation figures renewed investors ' hopes that the Federal Reserve will ease its interest-rate stance . 
In the past several days , however , the U.S. 's central bank has allowed a key interest rate to fall slightly to try to stabilize the markets . 
Excluding the volatile categories of energy and food -- leaving what some economists call the core inflation rate -- consumer prices still rose only 0.2 % in September . 
Transportation costs actually fell 0.5 % , and housing costs gained only 0.1 % . 
Apparel prices rocketed up 1.7 % , but that was after three months of declines . 
Car prices , another area that contributed to the steep rise in the wholesale index last month , still showed declines at the consumer level . 
Across the country , resorts are using everything from fireworks to classical-music concerts to attract new customers . 
Such efforts -- unheard of only a few years ago -- are the latest attempts to revive the sagging $ 1.76 billion U.S. ski industry . 
Since the start of the decade , lift-ticket sales have grown only 3 % a year on average , compared with 16 % annual growth rates in the '60s and '70s . 
Last season , lift-ticket sales fell for the first time in seven years . 
But another big problem has been the aging of baby boomers . 
In its new ad campaign , created by D'Arcy Masius Benton & Bowles Inc. , Chicago , the ski industry is trying to change its image as a sport primarily for young white people . 
`` Ski school is great , '' cries out a tot , bundled in a snowsuit as he plows down a bunny slope . 
But the new commercials deal with it indirectly by showing a woman smiling as she tries to get up from a fall . 
`` We wanted to show it 's okay if you fall , '' says Ms. Dillmann . 
Many resorts also are focusing more on the service side of their business . 
Since 40 % of skiers are parents , many slopes are building nurseries , expanding ski schools and adding entertainment for kids . 
Vail , Colo. , now has a playland that looks like an old mining town ; kids can ski through and pan for fool 's gold . 
A few years ago , parents usually had to hire a sitter or take turns skiing while one spouse stayed with the children . 
To make skiing more convenient for time-strapped visitors , several resorts are buying or starting their own travel agencies . 
For one thing , it may be tough to attract people because skiing is still expensive 
And most vacationers still prefer a warm climate for their winter excursions . 
`` Even if they could bring in that many new skiers , I do n't know if -LCB- the industry -RCB- could handle that kind of an increase , '' says I. William Berry , editor and publisher of the Ski Industry Letter in Katonah , N.Y . 
They are supposed to play the game next Tuesday , in Candlestick Park here . 
The theory is that the stadium , damaged by Tuesday 's earthquake , will be repaired by then , and that people will be able to get there . 
Like just about everything else , that remains to be seen . 
You might be interested to know that baseball , not survival , appeared to be the first thought of most of the crowd of 60,000-odd that had gathered at Candlestick at 5:04 p.m. Tuesday , a half-hour before game time , when the quake struck . 
I 'd slept through my only previous brush with natural disaster , a tornado 15 or so summers ago near Traverse City , Mich. , so I was unprepared for one reaction to such things : the urge to talk about them . 
`` It felt like I was on a station platform and a train went by , '' said one man , describing my own reaction . 
`` It felt like I was on a station platform and a train went by , '' said one man , describing my own reaction . A women said she saw the park 's light standards sway . 
A man said he saw the upper rim undulate . A women said she saw the park 's light standards sway . 
Dictates of good sense to the contrary not withstanding , the general inclination was to believe that the disturbance would be brief and that ball would be played . 
`` I was near the top of the stadium , and saw a steel girder bow six feet from where I sat , but I stayed put for 10 or 15 minutes , '' confessed a friend . 
Here in the Global Village , though , folks do not stay uninformed for long . 
Electrical power was out in still-daylighted Candlestick Park , but battery-operated radios and television sets were plentiful . 
Within a few minutes , the true extent of the catastrophe was becoming clear . 
Its Richter Scale measurement was reported as 6.5 , then 6.9 , then 7.0 . 
Its Richter Scale measurement was reported as 6.5 , then 6.9 , then 7.0 . A section of the Bay Bridge had collapsed , as had a part of Interstate Highway 880 in Oakland . 
At 5:40 p.m. , scheduled game time having passed , some fans chanted `` Let 's Play Ball . '' 
No longer innocent , they qualified as fools . 
The stadium was ordered evacuated soon afterward 
The stadium was ordered evacuated soon afterward ; the announcement , made over police bullhorns , cited the power outage , but it later was revealed that there also had been damage of the sort reported by my friend . 
TV reporters interviewed fans in the parking lots while , a few feet away , others watched the interviews on their portable TVs . 
The only frenzy I saw was commercial 
The traffic jam out of the park was monumental . 
It took me a half-hour to move 10 feet from my parking spot in an outer lot to an aisle , and an additional hour to reach an inner roadway a half-block away . 
At my hotel , the Westin , power was out , some interior plaster had broken loose and there had been water damage , but little else . 
With Garpian randomness , a hotel across the street , the Amfac , had been hit harder 
The journalistic consensus was that the earthquake made the World Series seem unimportant . 
Sure . 
The quake and baseball were n't related , unlike the massacre of athletes that attended the 1972 Olympics . 
Two ironies intrude . 
This has been widely dubbed the BART Series , after the local subway line , and the Bay Bridge Series . 
Flags fly at half-staff for the death of Bart Giamatti , the late baseball commissioner , and now the Bay Bridge lies in ruins . 
Still , its edge is lost . 
One of the major selling points used by Los Angeles financier Alfred Checchi in getting the takeover approved was that the deal did n't include any junk bonds . 
Mr. Batchelder says that in the past , banks would normally have loaned 65 % of a total buy-out price , with the loans secured by the target company 's assets . 
But Mr. Batchelder says that Citicorp 's `` failure to deliver '' on its promise to raise the UAL bank debt for a labor-management buy-out group `` is very distressing to potential users of a ` highly-confident ' letter from commercial banks . '' 
In fact , Manufacturers Hanover said in its third-quarter earnings report that fees from syndicating loans to other banks dropped 48 % , to $ 21 million . 
James B. Lee , head of syndications and private placements at Chemical Banking Corp. , said he believes banks can still make a credible offer of one-stop shopping for takeover finance . 
Beyond the current weakness in the junk bond market , banks have another advantage over investment banks in financing contested takeovers . 
One hostile bidder who deliberately avoided using junk bonds was Paramount Communications Inc. in its initial offer to acquire Time Inc. for $ 10.7 billion , or $ 175 a share . 
In the end , Mr. Davis used junk bonds so that he could raise Paramount 's bid to $ 200 a share . 
The Glazer group said in a Securities and Exchange Commission filing in early October that it may seek a controlling interest in Harley-Davidson , or seek representation on the company 's board . 
The nation 's fourth-largest steelmaker earned $ 18.3 million , or 43 cents a share , compared with $ 61 million , or $ 1.70 a share , a year earlier , when the industry was enjoying peak demand and strong pricing . 
However , the company also lost orders because of prolonged labor talks in the second quarter . 
Analysts noted that the disappointing results do n't reflect lower prices for steel products . 
Charles Bradford , an analyst with Merrill Lynch Capital Markets , said higher prices for galvanized and cold-rolled products offset lower prices for bar , hot-rolled and structural steel . 
The company said its integrated steel sector was also hurt by higher raw material , repair and maintenance , and labor costs . 
The `` seismic '' activity of a financial market bears a resemblance to the seismic activity of the earth . 
And liquidity is what markets need to damp quakes and aftershocks . 
In today 's markets , specialists -LRB- on the New York Stock Exchange -RRB- and `` upstairs '' market makers -LRB- in the over-the-counter market -RRB- are the only market participants allowed to play a direct role in the price-determination process . 
Last Friday the 13th -LRB- as well as two years ago this week -RRB- the markets became unlinked . 
When that happened , `` seismic '' tremors of fear -- much like the shock waves created by an earthquake -- coursed through the market and increased the market 's volatility . 
When market tremors start , it is crucial that as much information about transaction prices and the supply-demand curve -LRB- buy and sell orders at various prices -RRB- be made available to all , not just to market makers . 
Because of a lack of information and access , many investors -- including the very ones whose buying power could restore stability and damp volatility -- are forced to stand on the sidelines when they are most needed , because of their ignorance of important market information . 
Contrary to some opinions , the trading activities of specialists and other market makers do not provide liquidity to the market as a whole . 
What market makers provide is immediacy , a very valuable service . 
Liquidity is not a service . 
As a result , while any one customer may purchase immediacy by selling to a market maker -LRB- which is micro-liquidity for the investor -RRB- , the market as a whole remains in the same circumstances it was before the transaction 
As a result , while any one customer may purchase immediacy by selling to a market maker -LRB- which is micro-liquidity for the investor -RRB- , the market as a whole remains in the same circumstances it was before the transaction : The unwanted position is still an unwanted position 
In an open electronic system , any investor wishing to pay for real-time access to the trading arena through a registered broker-dealer would be able to see the entire supply-demand curve -LRB- buy and sell orders at each price -RRB- entered by dealers and investors alike , and to enter and execute orders . 
The recession , that is . 
The economy 's stutter steps leave investors wondering whether things are slowing down or speeding up . 
For the past seven years , investors have had the wind at their backs , in the form of a generally growing economy . 
Some may have forgotten -- and some younger ones may never have experienced -- what it 's like to invest during a recession . 
In a nutshell , pros advise investors who expect a slowdown to hold fewer stocks than usual and to favor shares of big companies in `` defensive '' industries . 
But that may not be possible , because recessions often take investors by surprise . 
`` They always seem to come a bit later than you expect . 
The reason is simple , Mr. Wyss says : `` Interest rates almost always decline during recession . '' 
As surely as a seesaw tilts , falling interest rates force up the price of previously issued bonds . 
But short-term bonds ca n't rise too much , because everyone knows they will be redeemed at a preset price fairly soon . 
But not just any bonds will do . 
Corporate bonds `` are usually not a good bet in a recession , '' Mr. Wyss says . 
As times get tougher , investors fret about whether companies will have enough money to pay their debts . 
That means that a corporation , after a specified amount of time has passed , can buy back its bonds by paying investors the face value -LRB- plus , in some cases , a sweetener -RRB- . 
When interest rates have dropped , it makes sense for corporations to do just that 
If corporate bonds are bad in recessions , junk bonds are likely to be the worst of all . 
It 's an `` absolute necessity '' to get out of junk bonds when a recession is in the offing , says Avner Arbel , professor of finance at Cornell University . 
Municipal bonds are generally a bit safer than corporate bonds in a recession , but not as safe as bonds issued by the federal government . 
But a few experts , going against the consensus , do n't think bonds would help investors even if a recession is in the offing . 
One of these is Jeffrey L. Beach , director of research for Underwood Neuhaus & Co. , a brokerage house in Houston , who thinks that `` we 're either in a recession or about to go into one . '' 
What 's more , he thinks this could be a nastier recession than usual 
Investors , he advises , `` should be cautious , '' holding fewer stocks than usual and also shunning bonds . 
Greg Confair , president of Sigma Financial Inc. in Allentown , Pa. , also recommends that investors go heavily for cash . 
`` This late in an expansion , '' the economy tends to veer off either into damaging inflation or into a recession , Mr. Confair says . 
A soft landing is n't something that can be achieved once and for all , Mr. Confair adds . 
It has to be engineered over and over again , month after month . 
And , in a sense , that 's the kind of task individuals face in deciding what to do about stocks -- the mainstay of most serious investors ' portfolios . 
For people who can ride out market waves through good times and bad , stocks have been rewarding long-term investments . 
Moreover , because no one knows for sure just when a recession is coming , some analysts think investors should n't even worry too much about timing . 
`` Trying to time the economy is a mistake , '' says David Katz , chief investment officer of Value Matrix Management Inc. in New York . 
Mr. Katz notes that some economists have been predicting a recession for at least two years . 
Mr. Katz adds that people who jump in and out of the stock market need to be right about 70 % of the time to beat a buy-and-hold strategy . 
Still , few investors are able to sit tight when they are convinced a recession is coming . 
After all , in all five recessions since 1960 , stocks declined . 
By the time a recession is `` official '' -LRB- two consecutive quarters of declining gross national product -RRB- , much of the damage to stocks has already been done - and , in the typical case , the recession is already half over . 
For the portion of an investor 's portfolio that stays in stocks , professionals have a number of suggestions . 
Mr. Katz advocates issues with low price-earnings ratios -- that is , low prices in relation to the company 's earnings per share . 
`` Low P-E '' stocks , he says , vastly outperform others `` during a recession or bear market . '' 
Prof. Arbel urges investors to discard stocks in small companies . 
For example , Mr. Arbel says , stocks of small companies are selling for about 19 times cash flow . -LRB- Cash flow , basically earnings plus depreciation , is one common gauge of a company 's financial health . -RRB- 
Food , tobacco , drugs and utilities are the classic examples . 
George Putnam III , editor of Turnaround Letter in Boston , offers one final tip for recession-wary investors . 
`` Keep some money available for opportunities , '' he says . 
Since last week 's junk-bond market debacle , many new issues of high-yield , high-risk corporate bonds have either been scaled back , delayed or dropped . 
On Wednesday , Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. had to slash the size of Continental Airlines ' junk-bond offering to $ 71 million from $ 150 million . 
Salomon Brothers Inc. has delayed Grand Union Co. 's $ 1.16 billion junk-bond offering while it restructures the transaction . 
Dan Baldwin , managing director of high-yield investments at Chancellor Capital Management , said the Chicago & North Western offering was restructured in part because `` several large insurance buyers right now are demanding equity as part of the package . 
To lure buyers to the Chicago & North Western bonds , portfolio managers said Donaldson Lufkin sweetened the transaction by offering the bonds with a resettable interest rate and a 10 % equity kicker . 
According to some analysts familiar with the negotiations , the 10 % of equity would come directly from Donaldson Lufkin and a fund affiliated with the investment bank Blackstone Group , which would reduce their CNW equity holdings by 5 % each . 
Despite the problems with new issues , high-yield bonds showed gains in the secondary , or resell , market . 
In the Treasury market , the benchmark 30-year bond rose seven-eighths point , or $ 8.75 for each $ 1,000 face amount . 
The gain reflects fresh economic evidence that inflation is moderating while the economy slows . 
That raised hopes that interest rates will continue to move lower . 
Yesterday , the Fed executed four-day matched sales , a technical trading operation designed to drain reserves from the banking system . 
`` The fact that they did four-day matched sales means they are not in a mood to ease aggressively . 
The benchmark 30-year bond was quoted late at a price of 101 25\/32 to yield 7.955 % , compared with 100 29\/32 to yield 8.032 % Wednesday . 
Short-term rates rose yesterday . 
Traders estimated that more than $ 140 million of high-grade bonds was put up for sale via bid-wanted lists circulated by a handful of major brokers . 
Away from the general obligation sector , activity was modest . 
The largest sale in the competitive arena was a $ 55.7 million issue of school financing bonds from the Virginia Public School Authority . 
Ginnie Mae 9 % securities ended at 98 6\/32 , up 9\/32 , and Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. 9 % securities were at 97 10\/32 , up 6\/32 . 
Collectively , the statements raised questions about whether a new bid for UAL will ever get off the ground . 
However , in response to the British Air decision , United 's pilot union vowed to continue efforts to revive the buy-out . 
Pilot union Chairman Frederick C. Dubinsky said advisers to UAL management and the union will begin meeting in New York today and will work through the weekend to devise a new proposal to present to UAL 's board `` at the earliest time possible . '' 
In another setback yesterday , United 's machinist union asked the Treasury Department to investigate whether certain aspects of the original buy-out proposal violated tax laws . 
But there was one bright spot yesterday . 
The United flight-attendants union agreed to negotiations that could lead to the flight attendants contributing concessions to a revived bid in exchange for an ownership stake . 
In an interview Wednesday with Dow Jones Professional Investor Report , Mr. Stevens said , `` We 're in no way committed to a deal going through at all . 
We 're not rushing into anything . 
Indeed , British Air seemed to be distancing itself from the troubled transaction early in an effort to avoid any further embarrassment . 
The carrier also seemed eager to place blame on its American counterparts . 
British Airways may have begun to have second thoughts about the transaction after the Transportation Department forced Northwest 's Airlines ' new owners to restructure the equity contribution of KLM Royal Dutch Airlines in that carrier . 
UAL 's advisers have indicated previously that it may take a while to come forward with a revised plan since they want to have firm bank commitments before launching a new bid . 
Sales of capital goods to foreign and domestic destinations increased 16.6 % in the January-June period from a year earlier . 
A core group of six or so Democratic senators has been working behind the scenes to develop a proposal to reduce the tax on the gain from the sale of assets . 
But Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell -LRB- D. , Maine -RRB- , a vigorous opponent of the capital-gains tax cut , called the group to meet with him Wednesday night and again yesterday . 
The decision is a setback for President Bush , who needs the support of Democrats to pass the tax cut through the Democratic-controlled Senate . 
Having a proposal sponsored by Democrats would have given the president an advantage . 
Still , Sen. Bob Packwood -LRB- R. , Ore. -RRB- , the lead sponsor of the Republican capital-gains amendment , predicted that the tax cut would be enacted this year . 
But Sen. Mitchell , buoyed by his victory among fellow Democrats , strongly disagreed . 
Mr. Mitchell has been predicting that the president 's initiative would fail this year . 
Yesterday , in an interview , he added that the Democrats ' decision `` increases the likelihood that a capital-gains tax cut will not pass this year . '' 
Mr. Mitchell 's first victory came last week , when the Senate passed a deficit-reduction bill that did n't contain a capital-gains provision . 
That vote made it unlikely that a capital-gains tax cut would be included in the final bill , now being drafted by House and Senate negotiators . 
Now Republican leaders are concentrating on attaching a capital-gains amendment to some other bill , perhaps a measure raising the federal borrowing limit or a second tax bill that would follow on the heels of the deficit-reduction legislation . 
The president apparently will have only one bill to push , Sen. Packwood 's , and at least some of the dissident Democrats plan to support it . 
The Packwood plan , as expected , would allow individuals to exclude from income 5 % of the gain from the sale of a capital asset held for more than one year . 
The Packwood plan , as expected , would allow individuals to exclude from income 5 % of the gain from the sale of a capital asset held for more than one year . The exclusion would rise five percentage points for each year the asset was held , until it reached a maximum of 35 % after seven years . 
For corporations , the top tax rate on the sale of assets held for more than three years would be cut to 33 % from the current top rate of 34 % . 
The Packwood plan also would include a proposal , designed by Sen. William Roth -LRB- R. , Del. -RRB- , that would create new tax benefits for individual retirement accounts . 
The Roth plan would create a new , non-deductible IRA from which money could be withdrawn tax-free not only for retirement , but also for the purchase of a first home , education expenses and medical expenses . 
The producer and marketer of low-sulfur coal said net income for the quarter was $ 5.9 million , or 71 cents a share , on revenue of $ 145.4 million . 
In the latest nine months , the company earned $ 8.5 million , or $ 1.03 a share . 
In the latest nine months , the company earned $ 8.5 million , or $ 1.03 a share . Last year 's net loss of $ 3,524,000 included a benefit of $ 1,640,000 from an accounting change . 
In addition , long-term debt has been trimmed to about $ 72 million from $ 96 million since Jan. 1 . 
For the past couple of years , Westmoreland has undertaken an aggressive streamlining of all aspects of its business . 
Marginal operations and assets have been sold . 
Marginal operations and assets have been sold . The size of the company 's board has been reduced to eight directors from 13 . 
About 140 salaried management jobs and hundreds of hourly wage positions have been eliminated . Marginal operations and assets have been sold . The size of the company 's board has been reduced to eight directors from 13 . 
For example , the chief executive himself now pays 20 % of the cost of his health benefits 
`` I think the ship is now righted , the bilges are pumped and we are on course , '' Mr. Hutchinson said of the restructuring program . 
But he cautioned that Westmoreland 's third quarter is typically better than the fourth , so investors `` should n't just multiply the third quarter by four '' and assume the same rate of improvement can be sustained . 
`` I do n't want to give the impression that everybody can relax now , '' he said . 
`` We have to keep working at improving our core business to stay efficient . 
Nevertheless , Mr. Hutchinson predicted that 1989 would be `` solidly profitable '' for Westmoreland and that 1990 would bring `` more of the same . '' 
For all of 1988 , the company reported an after-tax operating loss of $ 134,000 on revenue of $ 593.5 million . 
Mr. Hutchinson predicted that the unit 's contribution to company results in the 1990s `` will be exciting . '' 
Westmoreland expects energy demand to grow annually in the 2.5 % range in the early 1990s . 
`` We see coal 's piece of the action growing , '' Mr. Hutchinson said . 
The current transaction cost the bank approximately $ 140 million . 
As part of its decision to leave the building , Chase tried to sell its interest , along with the Atlas estate 's interest , shortly after the October 1987 stock market crash . 
Chase Senior Vice President George Scandalios said the bank decided to exercise its option after bids fell short of expectations . 
As the building 's new owner , Chase will have its work cut out for it . 
The author of the futuristic novel `` 1984 '' invented a language called Newspeak that made it impossible to fully develop a heretical thought -- that is , anything negative about the policies and practices of the state . 
Its language -- call it Streetspeak -- is increasingly mellifluous , reassuring , and designed to make financial products and maneuvers appear better , safer or cheaper than they really are . 
For example , we 'll bet you thought that the stock market crashed two years ago . 
Wrong . 
According to some of the grand panjandrums of the market , it never happened . 
In their lexicon the 508-point collapse in the Dow Jones Industrial Average on Oct. 19 , 1987 , was just a big blip . 
On Oct. 29 , 1929 -- a date historians stubbornly insist on associating with the dreaded C-word -- the DJ industrials fell 12.8 % . 
These people used to be called brokers , but apparently this word either is not grandiose enough or carries too many negative connotations from the aforementioned technical correction , when terrified customers could n't raise brokers on the phone . 
Of the major New York-based securities firms , only Morgan Stanley & Co. still calls its salespeople brokers . 
At Merrill Lynch & Co. and Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. , they are `` financial consultants . '' 
At Merrill Lynch & Co. and Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. , they are `` financial consultants . '' At Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. , Prudential Bache Securities , and Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. , they are `` account executives . '' 
Such titles are designed to convey a sense of dignified , broad-scale competence and expertise in selling today 's myriad financial products . 
It is a competence and expertise that some brokers themselves , overwhelmed by all the new things being dreamed up for them to peddle , do n't feel . 
The transmogrified brokers never let the C-word cross their lips , instead stressing such terms as `` safe , '' `` insured '' and `` guaranteed '' -- even though these terms may be severely limited in their application to a particular new financial product . 
A case in point : `` government-plus '' bond funds . 
When a certain class of investment performs so poorly that its reputation is tarnished , look for Wall Street to give it a new moniker . 
This seems to be happening now to limited partnerships , many of which either have gone into the tank in recent years or have otherwise been grievous disappointments . 
In such cases , the game has n't changed , only the name . 
In recent years , though , a passel of others flying the no-load flag have been imposing hefty charges -- all the way up to 6 % -- when an investor sells his shares . 
Also , blue chips in general have suffered much more short-term price volatility in recent years . 
Larry Biehl , a money manager in San Mateo , Calif. , blames that on the advent of program trading , in which computers used by big institutional investors are programmed to buy and sell big blocks when certain market conditions prevail . 
Finally , even the time-honored strategy called `` value investing '' no longer means what it once did . 
Before the takeover mania of the '80s , it referred to rooting out through analysis undervalued stocks , especially those with shrewd management , sound fundamentals and decent prospects . 
Now , says Mr. Biehl , value investing often means `` looking for downtrodden companies with terrible management that are in real trouble . '' 
I was amused to read your recent news stories on the banking industry 's reserve additions and concomitant threats to cease making new loans to less-developed countries . 
Separately , Gillette said its third-quarter earnings rose 2 % to $ 65.2 million , or 57 cents a share , from $ 63.9 million , or 57 cents a share , in the year-earlier period 
Separately , Gillette said its third-quarter earnings rose 2 % to $ 65.2 million , or 57 cents a share , from $ 63.9 million , or 57 cents a share , in the year-earlier period ; per-share earnings remained flat despite an increase in net income in part because the company paid a $ 10.4 million dividend on the new preferred stock in the period . 
For the nine months , Gillette 's net income declined 1 % to $ 205.3 million , or $ 2.02 a share , from $ 207 million , or $ 1.82 a share , in the 1988 period . 
There was just one sticking point 
There was just one sticking point : The two had a prior commitment . 
He figured wrong . 
Last week , following fruitless settlement talks , Warner , now merging with Time Inc. , filed a $ 1 billion breach of contract suit in Los Angeles Superior Court against both Sony and Guber Peters . 
Sony promptly countersued , charging Warner with trying to sabotage its acquisitions and hurt its efforts to enter the U.S. movie business . 
The accusations of lying and duplicity are flying thick and fast on both sides 
And they are a very odd team in any case . 
Mr. Guber was raised in Boston and educated in New York . 
He is a lawyer with a string of academic degrees . 
Although Columbia had a good summer with `` Ghostbusters II '' and `` When Harry Met Sally , '' rivals such as Warner , Paramount Pictures , Walt Disney Co. and Universal Studios have been thrashing Columbia at the box office . 
Their stock in trade as `` executive producers '' is sniffing out hot properties , locking them up and then getting big studios to bankroll and distribute them . 
Sometimes Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters do little more than grab the first draft of a screenplay for a `` Flashdance , '' or buy rights to a best seller such as `` The Color Purple . '' 
With MGM\/UA 's `` Rainman , '' for instance , Messrs. Guber and Peters had virtually nothing to do with day-to-day production , but their names still appear in big letters on the credits , and they are inevitably associated with its success . 
Sometimes , as with `` Batman , '' the pair really do make the film . 
And when you 're making a movie this big , you need all the help you can get , '' Mr. De Palma adds . 
And some movies seem to have been hurt by their inattention . 
Warner executives blame Mr. Guber 's and Mr. Peters 's lack of involvement in `` Caddyshack II '' for casting and production problems and the film 's ultimate dismal failure . 
`` But by and large this company has only been profitable . '' 
He says his company 's prowess at packaging and marketing `` is why we 'll be good at Columbia . 
`` Peter is a major piece of Hollywood manpower who has really earned his success , '' says Robert Bookman , an agent at Creative Artists Agency . 
Mark Johnson , the producer of `` Rainman , '' chimes in : `` He has a great ability to hire terrific people and delegate authority ... . 
Mr. Peters , on the other hand , has fewer fans in Hollywood , and his detractors like to characterize him as something of a hot-tempered bully . 
He also had to fight harder for credibility than his partner did . 
Barbra Streisand made him famous . 
He cut her hair . 
He lived with her . 
But for all their intellectual and stylistic differences , they make the perfect `` good cop , bad cop '' team , Hollywood associates say . 
`` Peter is the bright , sympathetic guy when you 're doing a deal , '' says one agent . 
Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters rub many people in Hollywood the wrong way . 
Producers Don Simpson and Jerry Bruckheimer , who shepherded `` Flashdance '' through several scripts and ultimately produced the movie , bristle when Messrs. Guber and Peters take credit for the film . 
Says Mr. Simpson : `` The script was unreadable . 
We reinvented it . 
We are the producers of that movie . 
When Roger Birnbaum , an executive who worked for Guber Peters in the early 1980s , left to take a job as head of production at the United Artists studio , they made him forfeit all credits and financial interest in the films he had helped develop , including `` Rainman '' and `` Batman . '' 
Mr. Peters acknowledges that and says it 's not unlike the situation he and Mr. Guber are in with Warner . 
Still , Mr. Birnbaum says his relationship with Guber Peters was `` one of the most successful I 've had in Hollywood . '' 
The two `` have a wonderful chemistry -- Jon is very impulsive , and Peter is very compulsive , '' adds Mr. Birnbaum , who is now head of production at News Corp. 's 20th Century Fox Film Co . 
`` Jon Peters will come barreling into a room , say he 's got a great idea , and be gone . 
Mr. Birnbaum recalls that Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters shifted into high gear a few years back upon learning that they had competition for the story of the murdered naturalist Dian Fossey , which became `` Gorillas in the Mist . '' 
He says , `` Within a few weeks , we made deals with the government of Rwanda and everyone who had ever met or talked to Dian Fossey . 
Messrs. Guber and Peters assiduously courted the man 's widow for months , showing her a tape of `` Gorillas in the Mist '' to impress her with the quality of their work . 
-LRB- The sale caused a rift between the widow and some of her husband 's followers . 
But it is puzzling to some Hollywood executives that Sony rushed to hire them without clearing up the Warner situation first . 
But though `` people in town may ask why Guber needs Peters , it 's good to have a partner , and obviously the chemistry works , '' says Steven Tisch , a producer who once worked for Mr. Guber . 
`` This business is n't about personalities at the end of the day -- it s about whether the ink is red or black . 
Mr. Guber got his start in the movie business at Columbia two decades ago . 
Recruited from New York University 's MBA program , he rose within two years to head of production , overseeing such films as `` The Way We Were , '' `` Taxi Driver , '' `` Tommy '' and `` Shampoo . '' 
In 1980 , Mr. Guber got together with Mr. Peters , by then a successful producer in his own right , after the death of Mr. Bogart . 
While Guber Peters produced a number of hits for Warner and others , their record was n't always so impressive . 
And the failures make it possible for Warner in its current lawsuit to paint the producers as ingrates . 
Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters maintain that executives at Warner have always known of their ambitions to run a major entertainment powerhouse , but that Warner never felt threatened until they linked up with Sony . 
`` From the beginning , -LCB- they -RCB- knew we had a goal and a dream , '' says Mr. Guber . 
On a number of occasions , he adds , he tried to get Warner to buy Guber Peters outright . 
In 1987 , Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters contributed their company 's assets in exchange for a 28 % stake in Barris Entertainment , a small-fry TV production company controlled by Giant Industries Inc. Chairman Burt Sugarman . 
In July a year later , Warner agreed to release the producers from their old contract when Messrs. Guber , Peters and Sugarman made a $ 100 million offer to buy 25 % of MGM\/UA . 
But the MGM plan collapsed just two weeks later . 
Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters say they got a look at the books and balked at the price . 
Their relationship with Mr. Sugarman soured shortly thereafter . 
But it paled by comparison to what Sony was to offer last month : the chance , at last , to run a major studio , about $ 50 million in deferred compensation , up to 10 % of Columbia 's future cash flow , 8 % of the future appreciation of Columbia 's market value , and annual salaries of $ 2.7 million for each . 
And earnings have been erratic . 
In the the latest quarter , thanks in part to `` Batman , '' Guber Peters earned $ 5.8 million , or 50 cents a share , compared to a loss of $ 6.8 million , or 62 cents a share , in last year 's quarter . 
The two sides now are accusing each other of lying . 
But in affidavits filed yesterday in the Los Angeles court , Mr. Ross , Warner Bros. Chairman Robert Daly and President Semel deny that such an oral agreement was ever made . 
Moreover , the old contract was about to expire , and the lineup of Guber Peters pictures for Warner was n't as strong as it is now . 
Warner obviously does n't think that it is in its own interests to let Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters go off to Columbia . 
During settlement talks , for example , Warner demanded such things as cable TV rights to Columbia movies and Columbia 's interest in the studio it jointly owns with Warner , according to executives involved in the talks . 
And they say there are plenty of precedents in Hollywood for letting people out of contracts . 
The last time Columbia Pictures was looking for a studio chief , they note , Warner released producer David Puttnam from his contract , then took him back after he was subsequently fired by his bosses at Columbia . 
In his affidavit filed yesterday , Warner 's Mr. Ross indicated he is n't buying any such argument 
First , there 's the name : `` asset-backed securities . '' 
And there 's more . 
The assets backing the securities come from some of the country 's biggest -- and most secure -- institutions . 
The assets backing the securities come from some of the country 's biggest -- and most secure -- institutions . Most earn high ratings from credit agencies . 
Well , think twice . 
Skeptics say the slightly higher returns are n't enough to compensate for the extra risk . 
`` A lot of this stuff really is in untested waters , '' says Owen Carney , director of the investment securities division of the U.S. comptroller of the currency . 
Such concerns , however , have n't stopped asset-backed securities from becoming one of Wall Street 's hottest new products . 
They have sold issues backed by car loans , boat loans and recreational-vehicle loans . 
They have offered bundles of homeequity loans , as well as packages of loans used to buy vacation time-shares . 
Last year , there was an issue of `` death-backed bonds '' -- securities backed by loans to life-insurance policyholders . 
`` This is the heyday of debt , '' says James Grant , editor of Grant 's Interest Rate Observer , a newsletter . 
The result is a $ 45 billion market , according to Securities Data Co . 
But wealthy individuals also have been jumping in , and lately brokers have been pushing smaller investors into the asset-backed market . 
The entry fee is affordable 
The trust then issues securities -- generally due in five years or less -- that are underwritten by Wall Street brokerage firms and offered to investors . 
Enthusiasts say the booming market has opened up a valuable new source of funds to issuers , while providing a valuable new investment for individuals and institutions . 
Consider a $ 500 million offering of 9 % securities issued last spring and backed by Citibank credit-card receivables . 
The triple-A-rated issue offered a yield of only about 0.5 percentage point above four-year Treasury issues . 
Moreover , the interest on asset-backed securities is fully taxable , while interest on Treasury issues is tax-free at the state and local level . 
But Mr. Powers has purchased asset-backed issues for individuals with tax-deferred accounts , such as retirement plans . 
Another concern is liquidity , or how easily a security can be converted into cash . 
The secondary , or resale , market for asset-backed securities is relatively new and much less active than for Treasury issues . 
That could make it tricky for investors who need to sell their holdings quickly before the securities mature . 
That 's particularly true , analysts say , for certain of the securities , such as those backed by time-share loans . 
In addition , an investor who wants to know the daily value of Treasury bonds , or corporate bonds traded on the New York Stock Exchange , can simply check newspaper listings . 
Investors , for instance , may mistakenly assume that the bank or company that originally held the assets is guaranteeing the securities . 
That means investors have to focus on the quality of the debt that lies beneath the securities , as well as on the credit enhancement for the issue and the credit ratings the issue has received . 
Take the `` credit enhancements , '' which typically include a bank letter of credit or insurance from a bond-insurance company . 
But skeptics ask why you should bother buying this stuff when you can get only slightly lower yields on government-guaranteed paper . 
When you buy an asset-backed issue , you take the risk that a bank or an insurer could run into unexpected difficulties . 
But despite the credit enhancements , despite the high ratings , some money managers still worry that a recession could wreak havoc on the underlying assets . 
At the very least , a recession would prompt investors to buy the highest-quality bonds they can find -- that is , Treasurys . 
But it could be much worse . 
Some analysts are especially wary of credit-card issues . 
`` Nope , we still say to stick with Treasurys , '' Mr. Corcoran replies . 
Those portfolios are remarkably diversified . 
Of 1,500 people sent a questionnaire , 951 replied . 
For example , 12 % of this year 's respondents said they expect a recession within 12 months . 
An additional 56 % of this year 's respondents expect the economy to slow down during the next 12 months . 
Apparently , the respondents do n't think that an economic slowdown would harm the major investment markets very much . 
Their verdict on real estate is almost the same . 
By contrast , only 32 % expect an increase in the price of gold . 
Even though only 12 % actually predicted a recession , many respondents were taking a better-safe-than sorry investment stance . 
Nearly a third said they have made some portfolio changes to anticipate a possible recession . 
A buy-and-hold approach to stocks continues to be the rule among respondents . 
Most own two to 10 stocks , and buy or sell no more than three times a year . 
Some 71 % had bought some stock in the past year 
But the lurking shadow of 1987 's stock-market crash still seems dark . 
And the respondents ' commitment to the stock market remains somewhat lighter than usual . 
Moody 's Investors Service said it lowered its rating on about $ 75 million of this Chatsworth , Calif. , concern 's convertible subordinated debentures , due 2012 , to Caa from B2 . 
Moody 's Investors Service Inc. said it lowered its rating on about $ 400 million of this bank holding company 's senior debt to B2 from Ba3 . 
That was the message delivered by government and private security experts at an all-day conference on corporate electronic espionage . 
Any secret can be pirated , the experts said , if it is transmitted over the air . 
Even rank amateurs can do it if they spend a few thousand dollars for a commercially available microwave receiver with amplifier and a VCR recorder . 
They need only position themselves near a company 's satellite dish and wait . 
`` You can have a dozen competitors stealing your secrets at the same time 
`` You can have a dozen competitors stealing your secrets at the same time , '' Mr. Matchett said , adding : `` It 's a pretty good bet they wo n't get caught . '' 
By contrast , European firms will spend $ 150 million this year on electronic security , and are expected to spend $ 1 billion by 1992 . 
Still , encrypting corporate communications is only a partial remedy . 
Moreover , he said , technology now exists for stealing corporate secrets after they 've been `` erased '' from a computer 's memory . 
He said that Oliver North of Iran-Contra notoriety thought he had erased his computer but that the information was later retrieved for congressional committees to read . 
W. Mark Goode , president of Micronyx Inc. , a Richardson , Texas , firm that makes computer-security products , provided a new definition for Mikhail Gorbachev 's campaign for greater openness , known commonly as glasnost . 
Under Mr. Gorbachev , Mr. Goode said , the Soviets are openly stealing Western corporate communications . 
The University said the two companies agreed to spend 25 million Canadian dollars -LRB- $ 21.3 million -RRB- over 10 years on research at Canadian universities if they are successful in acquiring the vaccine maker . 
Ciba-Geigy and Chiron have made a joint bid of C$ 866 million for Connaught , and Institut Merieux S.A. of France has made a rival bid of C$ 942 million . 
The university implied that it would drop its opposition to foreign ownership if Ciba-Geigy and Chiron are successful with their lower bid . 
It said the new agreement would `` replace '' the old one that forms the basis of its suit against the Merieux takeover . 
In a statement , Jacques-Francois Martin , director general of Merieux , said the French company is still determined to acquire Connaught . 
The Nasdaq composite leaped 7.52 points , or 1.6 % , to 470.80 . 
The OTC market 's largest stocks soared as well , as the Nasdaq 100 Index jumped 10.01 , or 2 % , to 463.06 . 
Among broader Nasdaq industry groups , the utility index gained 18.11 to 761.38 . 
The transportation and insurance sectors each posted gains of 8.59 , with the transports finishing at 486.74 and the insurers at 537.91 . 
The Nasdaq industrial index climbed 8.17 to 458.52 , and the `` other finance '' index , made up of commercial banks and real estate and brokerage firms , rose 3.97 to 545.96 . 
Microsoft 's surge followed a report this week of substantially improved earnings for its first quarter , ended Sept. 30 . 
Rick Sherlund , a Goldman Sachs analyst , has raised his earnings estimates for the company twice in the past two weeks , citing improved margins . 
After the earnings were announced , he raised his fiscal 1990 estimate to between $ 3.80 and $ 4 a share . 
Another recently offered Alex . Brown issue , Rally 's , surged 3 1\/8 to 23 . 
The operator of fast-food restaurants , whose shares began trading last Friday , climbed 3 1\/8 to 23 on 944,000 shares . 
Valley National 's slide of 5 3\/4 points to 18 1\/2 on 4.2 million shares followed its report late Wednesday of a $ 72.2 million third-quarter loss . 
The offering was for about 2.8 million shares of the data storage equipment maker 
Nutmeg Industries lost 1 3\/4 to 14 . 
It was five in the afternoon , but that was Pacific time . 
Maybe it was their peculiar sense of history . 
The broadcasters were , after all , documenting the game , ratifying its occurrence for millions outside the Stick . 
The day was saturated with the weight of its own impending history . 
Long lines of people waited to buy special souvenir World Series postcards with official postmarks . 
Players ran out on the field way below , and the stands began to reverberate . 
And no one was shouting . 
Because we all were busy riding a wave . 
Then I remembered the quake of '71 , which I experienced in Santa Barbara in a second-story motel room . 
Then I noticed the overhead light was swaying on its cord and realized what had happened . 
But the lot might split into crevasses , so I had better stand on my car , which probably was wider than the average crevasse . 
At the Stick , while the world shook , I thought of that morning and then it struck me that this time was different . 
If I survived , I would have achieved every journalist 's highest wish . 
I was an eyewitness of the most newsworthy event on the planet at that moment . 
All these thoughts raced through my head in the 15 seconds of the earthquake 's actual duration . 
The rest is , of course , history . 
The Stick did n't fall . 
But for a few minutes there , relief abounded . 
A young mother found her boy , who had been out buying a hotdog . 
It was during the quiet exodus down the pristine concrete ramps of the Stick that I really understood the point of all those Walkmen and Watchmen . 
The crowd moved in clumps , clumps magnetized around an electronic nucleus . 
In this way , while the Stick itself was blacked out , we kept up to date on events . 
Within 15 minutes of the quake itself , I was able to see pictures of the collapsed section of the Bay Bridge . 
In fact , the entire population of the Bay Area had ended up with this dual role of actor and audience . 
The tape was on tv before the night was out . 
The first 10 pages of the 76-page Weekly Portfolio Perspective are completely blank , except for the page numbers . 
Rather than printing devils , Shearson puts all the blame on the unpredictable stock market . 
In fact , last Friday 's 190.58-point tumble in the stock market caught many people and businesses by surprise , not the least of them brokerage firms such as Shearson that print their weekly market commentaries on Fridays for dissemination the following week . 
The first thought some investors had was that a red-faced Shearson must have been wildly bullish on stocks in its original commentary , and that 's why it purged its pages . 
Investors recalled that Shearson last week had been advising that `` the market is still exhibiting all the signs of a further advance . '' 
And by late Friday afternoon , actually after the close , we decided that was the wrong tone to take . 
In a report on China 's foundering economy , the official State Statistical Bureau disclosed that industrial output last month rose 0.9 % from a year earlier - the lowest growth rate in a decade for September . 
Chinese and foreign economists now predict prolonged stagflation : low growth and high inflation . 
`` The economy is crashing hard , '' says an Asian economist in Beijing . 
Experts predict the coming year will be characterized by flat or negative industrial growth , rising unemployment and a widening budget deficit . 
The economy 's slowdown is due only partly to the austerity program launched in September 1988 to cool an overheated economy and tame inflation . 
Some analysts believe China soon will begin relaxing economic controls , particularly by loosening credit . 
That would benefit Chinese enterprises as well as Sino-foreign joint ventures , both of which have been plagued by shortages of working capital . 
But while pumping more money into the economy would bring relief to many industries , it also runs the risk of triggering another period of runaway growth and steep inflation . 
The statistical bureau 's report , cited in China Daily , notes that industrial output in September totaled $ 29.4 billion , a rise of just 0.9 % from a year earlier . 
Output declined in several provinces , including Jiangsu and Zhejiang , two key coastal areas , and Sichuan , the nation 's agricultural breadbasket . 
In an unusually direct statement , the bureau spokesman recommended that state banks extend more credit to shopkeepers so that they can purchase manufacturers ' goods . 
Real-estate executives are lobbying to ease anti-tax-shelter rules . 
Real-estate executives are lobbying to ease anti-tax-shelter rules . Charitable groups are trying to reinstate the write-off for contributions made by individuals who do n't itemize their deductions . 
`` Everything is up for grabs , '' says Theodore Groom , a lobbyist for mutual life-insurance companies . 
The catalyst has been the congressional move to restore preferential tax treatment for capital gains , an effort that is likely to succeed in this Congress . 
Other fundamental `` reforms '' of the 1986 act have been threatened as well . 
The House seriously considered raising the top tax rate paid by individuals with the highest incomes . 
As part of the same bill , the finance panel also voted in favor of billions of dollars in narrow tax breaks for individuals and corporations , in what committee member Sen. David Pryor -LRB- D. , Ark . -RRB- calls a `` feeding frenzy '' of special-interest legislating . 
But lawmakers of both parties agree that the streamlining was temporary . 
`` There is n't any doubt that the thread of the '86 code has been given a mighty tug , '' says Rep. Thomas Downey -LRB- D. , N.Y . -RRB- . 
`` It 's back to tax-give-away time for the select few , '' says Rep. William Gray of Pennsylvania , the third-ranking Democrat in the House . 
Many groups are n't waiting that long . 
Just last week , a House Ways and Means subcommittee held a lengthy meeting to hear the pleas of individual cities , companies and interest groups who want to open their own special loopholes . 
Even lobbyists for heavy industry , one of the interests hit hardest in the 1986 bill , are encouraged . 
The return of pro-investment tax breaks such as those for capital gains and IRAs `` creates more of a mood or a mindset that is helpful for getting better depreciation -LRB- write-offs -RRB- or investment credits , '' says Paul Huard , a vice president for the National Association of Manufacturers . 
Real-estate interests , for example , are protesting an omission in President Bush 's capital-gains proposal 
Real-estate interests , for example , are protesting an omission in President Bush 's capital-gains proposal : It does n't include real-estate gains . 
In the House-passed tax bill , Mr. Thevenot got his wish 
But Sotheby 's , Christie 's and the National Association of Antique Dealers are still trying to get theirs . 
They have sent a letter to congressional tax-writers asking that gains from the sale of collectibles also be given preferential treatment . 
All of this talk is antithetical to the Tax Reform Act of 1986 . 
In exchange for dramatically lower tax rates , the framers of that legislation sought to eliminate most of the exemptions , deductions and credits that gave some taxpayers an advantage over others . 
This year Congress , with prodding from President Bush , has been busy trying to put many of these same tax preferences back into the code . 
It appears likely that , this year or next , some form of capital-gains preference and passive-loss restoration will be enacted . 
Other tax benefits probably will be restored and created . 
`` The '86 act was a fluke . 
Mr. Juliano thinks so . 
`` I 'm too old to waste a weekend , but that 's what I did , '' the 48-year-old Mr. Juliano moans . 
Raymond Chandler , in a 1950 letter defending a weak Hemingway book , likened a champion writer to a baseball pitcher . 
When the champ has lost his stuff , the great mystery novelist wrote , `` when he can no longer throw the high hard one , he throws his heart instead . 
He throws something . 
Chandler might have been predicting the course of his own career . 
His last published novel featuring private detective Philip Marlowe , the inferior `` Playback '' -LRB- 1958 -RRB- , at times read almost like a parody of his previous work . 
When he died in 1959 , Chandler left behind four chapters of yet another Marlowe book , `` The Poodle Springs Story , '' which seemed to go beyond parody into something like burlesque . 
But the lovebirds have a conflict . 
Mr. Parker spins it into a pretty satisfying tale involving Poodle Springs high life , Hollywood low life and various folk who hang their hats in both worlds . 
The supporting lineup is solid , the patter is amusing and there 's even a cameo by Bernie Ohls , the `` good cop '' of previous Chandler books who still does n't hesitate to have Marlowe jailed when it suits his purposes . 
The style throughout bears a strong resemblance to Chandler 's prose at its most pared down . 
But there are grounds for complaint . 
At one point , the reader is two steps ahead of Marlowe in catching on to a double identity scam -- and Marlowe is supposed to be the pro . 
More bothersome , there are several apparent anachronisms . 
Contact lenses , tank tops , prostitutes openly working the streets of Hollywood and the Tequila Sunrise cocktail all seem out of place in the 1950s . 
Mr. Shioya has turned the tables . 
`` Japanese publishers want to be introduced to the publishing and information industries , '' said John Veronis , chairman of Veronis Suhler . 
While there are n't any major deals in the works currently on the scale of Sony Corp. 's recent $ 3.4 billion agreement to buy Columbia Pictures Entertainment Inc. , observers do n't rule out a transaction of that size . 
`` The Japanese take the long view . '' said Mr. Veronis . 
When Keizaikai launched Business Tokyo in 1987 , it appealed to a more multinational audience . 
American publishers appear more than ready to do some selling . 
`` Before , they were interested in hard assets and they saw magazines as soft . 
Rate settlements in Minnesota and Colorado depressed U S West 's third-quarter profit . 
Revenue dropped 4.3 % to $ 2.3 billion from $ 2.4 billion , reflecting declines in its consumer-telephone sector , long-distance carrier business and diversified division . 
Overall they increased 2.8 % to 12.1 million , putting U S West over the 12 million mark for the first time . 
`` On a truly comparable basis , we 've seen modest earnings growth this year from the operations of our company , '' said Jack MacAllister , chairman and chief executive officer . 
Revenue jumped 5.6 % to $ 2.9 billion from $ 2.8 billion in the year-ago quarter . 
Revenue from financial and real-estate services jumped 23 % to $ 177.4 million from $ 144.1 million a year ago . 
State and local taxes increased to $ 131.3 million from $ 99.1 million a year ago . 
Nynex said expenses rose 4.5 % to $ 2.73 billion from $ 2.61 billion , a $ 119 million increase . 
`` Our net income is n't where we would want it to be at this point , '' said William C. Ferguson , chairman and chief executive officer . 
The three-month-old strike at Nynex seriously hurt the installation of new telephone lines in the quarter . 
`` This is a good quarter for us in terms of our business fundamentals , '' said Sam Ginn , chairman and chief executive officer . 
Pacific Telesis said new telephone lines increased 4.5 % for a total of about $ 13.5 million for the quarter 
A charge of $ 80 million related to projected environmental costs in its refining and marketing operations further depressed results . 
In the 1988 third quarter , the Chicago-based oil company earned $ 552 million , or $ 1.07 a share . 
Revenue in the latest quarter rose 12 % to $ 6.6 billion from $ 5.91 billion . 
Aside from the special charge , Amoco 's results were in line with Wall Street estimates . 
Amoco is the first major oil company to report third-quarter results . 
Generally in the quarter , overproduction of gasoline and higher crude oil prices pressured profitability . 
The industry 's chemical profits also declined because excess capacity has depressed prices . 
American Petrofina Inc. , a Dallas-based integrated oil company , yesterday said its third-quarter earnings declined by more than half . 
It said net income dropped to $ 15.1 million , or 98 cents a share , from $ 35.2 million , or $ 2.66 a share . 
Amoco 's refining and marketing profit in the quarter fell to $ 134 million from $ 319 million . 
But foreign exploration and production earnings fell sharply , to $ 12 million from $ 95 million . 
Even if there is n't any widespread discounting , the outlook for industry profits is n't good . 
Management Horizons forecasts a 1.4 % profit decline for non-auto retailers this year , after annual drops that averaged 4.5 % in 1988 and 1987 . 
This year , many stores are entering the Christmas season in turmoil 
This year , many stores are entering the Christmas season in turmoil : Bonwit Teller and B. Altman parent L.J. Hooker Corp. is operating under Chapter 11 of the federal Bankruptcy Code 
Industry observers expect a wide divergence in performance . 
But Mr. Steidtmann predicts that healthy stores hawking mostly apparel could ring up gains of as much as 25 % to 30 % . 
Troubled chains could see their sales drop as much as 8 % , he believes , as managers distracted by fears about the future allow their stores to get sloppy . 
Catalog companies are likely to pose a bigger threat to all stores this year , particularly in December . 
`` Traditionally , consumers were concerned about ordering after the first of December because they did n't believe they would get it by Christmas , '' says Adam Strum , chairman of the Wine Enthusiast Inc. , which sells wine cellars and accessories through the mail . 
K mart Corp. Chairman Joseph E. Antonini summed up his outlook for the Christmas season as `` not troublesome . '' 
Other retailers are also preparing for a ho-hum holiday . 
Philip M. Hawley , chairman of Carter Hawley Hale Stores Inc. , expects sales at department stores open at least a year to rise a modest 3 % to 5 % over last year 's totals , both for his company and the industry in general . 
`` It is n't a real boom holiday season in our eyes , '' says Woolworth Corp. Chairman Harold E. Sells , `` but it is n't going to be a bust either . '' 
A consumer poll conducted in early September by Leo J. Shapiro & Associates , a market researcher based in Chicago , also suggests a modest holiday . 
Retailers could get a boost this year from the calendar . 
Christmas falls on a Monday , creating a big last-minute weekend opportunity for stores . 
But many consumers probably will use the extra time to put off some purchasing until the last minute . 
`` What you 'll hear as we get into December is that sales are sluggish , '' predicts Woolworth 's Mr. Sells . 
The Spanish author Camilo Jose Cela won the Nobel Prize for literature yesterday , a surprising choice , but given the Swedish Academy 's past perversities , hardly the most undeserved and ridiculous accolade handed out by the awarding committee . 
Still , it was in Argentine editions that his countrymen first read his story of Pascal Duarte , a field worker who stabbed his mother to death and has no regrets as he awaits his end in a prison cell : `` Fate directs some men down the flower-bordered path , and others down the road bordered with thistles and prickly pears . 
The lucky ones gaze out at life with serene eyes and smile with a face of innocence at their perfumed happiness . 
These days , he is as known for his flamboyant tastes and the youthful muse who shares his life as he is for his books . 
The lonely woman walks on in the direction of the Plaza de Alonso Martinez . 
`` I do n't doubt it for a moment . 
It does not matter if one is defeated , provided the work that gets the award has unmistakable qualities . 
The company earned $ 66 million , or $ 1.19 a share , on revenue of $ 2.1 billion in the year-ago fourth quarter . 
The Panamanian affair is only the tip of a more alarming iceberg . 
It originates in a Bush administration decision not to antagonize the U.S. Congress and avoid , at all costs , being accused of meddling in the region . 
The result has been a dangerous vacuum of U.S. leadership , which leaves Central America open to Soviet adventurism . 
`` The -LCB- influence of the -RCB- U.S. is not being felt in Central America 
The disarray of the Bush administration 's Latin diplomacy was evident in the failure of the Organization of American States to condemn categorically Gen. Noriega . 
But other than a few slaps on the wrist , Gen. Noriega went unpunished by that body , too 
However , Mr. Ortega was included . 
Formally upgrading the Sandinistas to a democratic status was an initiative harshly criticized in the Costa Rican press . 
Nevertheless , the Bush administration agreed to the dubious arrangement in July , a few weeks before the Central American presidents met in Tela , Honduras , to discuss a timetable for disbanding the anti-Sandinista rebels . 
Prior to this episode , Sen. Christopher Dodd -LRB- D. , Conn. -RRB- , sensing an open field , undertook a personal diplomatic mission through Central America to promote an early disbanding of the rebels . 
Visiting Nicaragua , he praised the Sandinistas for their electoral system and chided the Bush administration for not rewarding the Sandinistas . 
Aid was also the gist of the talks Sen. Dodd had with Salvadoran President Alfredo Cristiani 
It was therefore not surprising that close allies of the U.S. , virtually neglected by the Bush administration , ordered the Nicaraguan insurgents dismantled by December , long before the elections . 
The individual foreign policy carried out by U.S. legislators adds to a confusing U.S. performance that has emboldened Soviet initiatives in Central America . 
There , Mr. Shevardnadze felt legitimized to unveil his own peace plan 
He also called on Nicaragua 's neighbors to accept a `` military equilibrium '' guaranteed by both superpowers . 
Since Mr. Shevardnadze 's proposals followed discussions with Mr. Baker , speculations arose that the Bush administration was seeking an accommodation with the Soviets in Central America . 
The sad condition of U.S. policy in Central America is best depicted by the recent end to U.S. sponsorship of Radio Costa Rica . 
In 1984 , the Costa Rican government requested help to establish a radio station in the northern part of the country , flooded by airwaves of Sandinista propaganda . 
A few months ago , the Bush administration decided to stop this cooperation , leaving Radio Costa Rica operating on a shoestring . 
It is capable of reaching the entire Caribbean area and deep into North America . 
Questioned in Washington about what would happen if his much-heralded peace plan would fail , President Arias voiced expectations of direct U.S. action . 
Holiday said third-quarter earnings rose to $ 39.8 million , or $ 1.53 a share , from $ 21 million , or 84 cents a share , a year earlier . 
For the nine months , earnings fell 2.9 % to $ 99.1 million , or $ 3.86 a share , from $ 102.1 million , or $ 4.10 a share , a year earlier . 
The tender offer and consent solicitation will be made to debtholders in December . 
The two companies , like Fox , already have their own TV stations . 
MCA owns WWOR in New York and Paramount last month agreed to purchase a 79 % stake in the TVX Broadcast Group from Salomon Inc. in a deal valued at $ 140 million . 
Another Fox official , who declined to be identified , said Fox was n't pleased by the possible Paramount-MCA venture into prime-time programming . 
`` To make the venture work , they would need Fox affiliates , '' he said . 
The executive said Paramount and MCA have also held discussions with Chris-Craft Industries ' broadcasting unit , which owns five independent stations in cities such as Los Angeles , San Francisco and Portland , Ore . 
`` I think it 's to Fox 's advantage to be associated with the Paramount-MCA venture , '' said Michael Conway , station manager of WTXF , the TVX station that is a Fox affiliate . 
Michael Fisher , general manager of KTXL , a Fox affiliate in Sacramento , Calif. , said , `` The real question is whether the Paramount-MCA offering is practical . 
The holding company will be called BanPonce Corp . 
Banco Popular originally proposed the merger in July , in a cash and stock transaction valued at $ 50 a share , or about $ 293 million . 
`` Banco Popular just kept waiting , '' said Edward Thompson , a vice president and analyst at Thomson BankWatch Inc. in New York . 
The two banks appear to be a good fit . 
The merger should also allow the companies to reduce costs by combining operations in many locations in Puerto Rico . 
Richard Carrion , who is currently president and chief executive officer of Banco Popular , said the merger will result in a `` larger and stronger locally based bank . '' 
Mr. Carrion , who will now serve as president and chief executive officer of the subsidiary bank , added : `` We 'll be able to better compete with large foreign banks . 
The banks said they do n't expect the merger to face any regulatory hurdles . 
The construction equipment maker said third-quarter profit fell to $ 108 million , or $ 1.07 a share , from $ 190 million , or $ 1.87 a share , a year earlier . 
But yesterday , the company said this year 's profit will be lower . 
For the first nine months of the year , Caterpillar said earnings fell 14 % to $ 390 million , or $ 3.85 a share , from $ 453 million , or $ 4.46 a share , a year earlier . 
B.A.T aims to sell such U.S. retailing units as Marshall Field and Saks Fifth Avenue and float its big paper and British retailing businesses via share issues to existing holders . 
B.A.T yesterday started its share buy-back . 
Shareholder approval sets the stage for a lengthy process of restructuring that might not be completed until next year 's second half . 
`` We are not in any hurry to sell '' Saks , Marshall Field or B.A.T 's other U.S. retail properties , said Chairman Patrick Sheehy . 
`` This is n't a distress sale . 
Meanwhile , Sir James still is pursuing efforts to gain U.S. insurance regulators ' approval for a change in control of B.A.T 's Farmers Group Inc. unit . 
Hasbro said it had net income of $ 31.3 million , or 53 cents a share , up from $ 18.1 million , or 31 cents a share , a year earlier , when it took a pretax charge of $ 10 million after dropping development of an interactive video entertainment system . 
The company cited sales gains at its Milton Bradley and Playskool units and in its international business for the increase in revenue . 
The athletic footwear maker said net rose to $ 49.9 million , or 44 cents a share , from $ 37.1 million , or 32 cents a share , a year earlier . 
Pitney Bowes said the decision was based on a long-term analysis of the compatibility of Wheeler Group 's marketing business with other Pitney Bowes operations . 
Separately , Pitney Bowes said third-quarter net income gained 15 % to $ 62 million , or 78 cents a share , from $ 54 million , or 68 cents a share , a year ago . 
Red tractors gingerly picked at the rubble while jackhammers tried to break up some of the massive slabs of concrete . 
Knowledgeable employees said the retrofitting , which had n't yet been budgeted , was part of a planned , three-stage reinforcement of the Cypress structure begun by the California transportation department several years ago . 
`` We had just finished phase two '' of the Cypress project that involved installing a series of retaining cables designed to prevent sections of the roadway from separating as a result of seismic shock , a state DOT engineer said . 
Knowledgeable employees said the project had been stymied somewhat by `` the difficulty of designing '' the jackets . 
The employees also said the project may have been snagged by budgetary concerns . 
The collapse of the span has provoked surprise and anger among state officials . 
`` I want to know who made the decision that it was safe for 186,000 people to use every day , '' said Richard Katz , a state legislator who is chairman of the California Assembly 's transportation committee . 
The Cypress structure opened in June 1957 , and as such , like many buildings in the San Francisco Bay area , does not meet current building codes requiring considerably more steel support . 
Transportation department officials , however , said they were as surprised as anyone by the Cypress destruction . 
Bonn and Washington have taken a leading role in aid for the reformist countries , pledging billions of dollars in fresh credit and forgiving old debt while urging other industrial nations to follow suit . 
Addressing a conference of the New York-based Institute for East-West Security Studies in Frankfurt yesterday , Mr. Genscher said , `` History will judge us by whether we have taken the opportunities that emerge from these reforms . '' 
Meanwhile , the U.S. House of Representatives yesterday approved an $ 837.5 million aid package for Poland and Hungary that more than doubles the amount President Bush had requested . 
The legislation , approved 345-47 and sent to the Senate , establishes two enterprise funds , to be governed by independent nonprofit boards , which will make loans and investments in new business ventures in Hungary and Poland . 
When Chancellor Helmut Kohl travels to Poland Nov. 9 , he is expected to take with him a promise of three billion West German marks -LRB- $ 1.6 billion -RRB- in new credit guarantees for industrial projects . 
West Germany also has increased its credit guarantees to Hungary by 500 million marks to 1.5 billion marks as the emerging democratic state rushes through its own economic reforms , including a broad privatization of state-owned industry and tax incentives for industrial investment . 
Deutsche Bank AG , which last year arranged a three billion mark credit for the Soviet Union , is now moving to become the first West German bank to set up independent business offices in Hungary and Poland as they shift to free-market economies . 
For the nine months , Mattel net more than doubled to $ 58.9 million , or $ 1.19 a share , from $ 25.4 million , or 53 cents a share , a year ago . 
Mattel said the company 's sale of rights to land and buildings at its Hawthorne , Calif. , headquarters resulted in a $ 13 million charge to third-quarter operating profit . 
Democracy can be cruel to politicians 
Democracy can be cruel to politicians : Sometimes it forces them to make choices . 
Now that the Supreme Court opened the door on the subject of abortion , politicians are squinting under the glare of democratic choice . 
Republicans are squinting most painfully , at least at first , which is only fair because they 've been shielded the most . 
So long as abortion was a question for litigation , not legislation , Republicans could find political security in absolutism . 
They could attract one-issue voters by adopting the right-to-life movement 's strongest position , even as pro-choice Republicans knew this mattered little on an issue monopolized by the court . 
Much of Washington thought it detected George Bush in a characteristic waffle on abortion the past week . 
Only a month ago he 'd warned Congress not to pass legislation to pay for abortions in cases of rape or incest . 
Last Friday , after Congress passed it anyway , he hinted he was looking for compromise . 
In fact , Mr. Bush 's dance was more wiggle than waffle . 
Pro-life advocates say the White House never wavered over the veto . 
When Democrats refused to budge , pro-life Republicans met at the White House with Chief of Staff John Sununu on Monday , and Mr. Bush quickly signaled a veto . 
The GOP doubters were in Congress . 
In last week 's House vote , 41 Republicans defected . 
After the vote , Connecticut Rep. Nancy Johnson rounded up nearly as many signatures on a letter to Mr. Bush urging him not to veto . 
Even such a pro-life stalwart as Sen. Orrin Hatch -LRB- R. , Utah -RRB- had counseled some kind of compromise . 
The manuevering illustrates an emerging Republican donnybrook , pacified since the early 1980s . 
At the 1988 GOP convention , abortion was barely discussed at all , though delegates were evenly divided on the question of an anti-abortion constitutional amendment . 
Now many Republicans are listening . 
They 're frightened by what they see in New Jersey , and especially Virginia , where pro-life GOP candidates for governor are being pummeled on abortion . 
But the Supreme Court 's opening of debate may have changed even that . 
The Republican danger is that abortion could become for them what it 's long been for Democrats , a divisive litmus test . 
Oklahoma official Robert Fulton lost a chance for a senior job in the Department of Health and Human Services after right-to-life activists opposed him . 
Caldwell Butler , a conservative former congressman , was barred from a Legal Services post , after he gave wrong answers on abortion . 
In the case of HHS Secretary Louis Sullivan , the litmus test could yet damage issues important to other parts of the Republican coalition . 
After Mr. Sullivan waffled on abortion last year , the White House appeased right-to-lifers by surrounding him with pro-life deputies . 
Their views on health care and welfare did n't much matter , though HHS spends billions a year on both . 
Though Democrats can gloat at all this for now , they may want to contain their glee . 
On abortion , their own day will come . 
Eventually even Republicans will find a way to frame the issue in ways that expose pro-choice absolutism . 
Democracy is forcing the abortion debate toward healthy compromise , toward the unpolarizing middle . 
Roe v. Wade pre-empted political debate , so the extremes blossomed . 
Now the ambivalent middle , a moral majority of sorts , is reasserting itself . 
Within a few years , the outcome in most states is likely to be that abortion will be more restricted , but not completely banned . 
Union Pacific Corp . third-quarter net income fell 17 % . 
The energy , natural resources and railroad concern had net of $ 137.4 million , or $ 1.35 a share , down from $ 165 million , or $ 1.44 a share , a year earlier . 
In the 1988 third quarter , profit from continuing operations totaled $ 140.1 million . 
The company said its Union Pacific Railroad had a 3 % profit increase , despite a 14 % rise in fuel costs and a 4 % drop in car loadings . 
Earnings from continuing operations of the Union Pacific Resources unit almost doubled , the company said . 
Earnings from Union Pacific Realty dropped 50 % to $ 3 million . 
In the nine months , net fell 6.3 % to $ 427.7 million , or $ 3.98 a share , from $ 456.4 million , or $ 4 a share , a year earlier . 
Profit from continuing operations in the year-earlier period was $ 402.7 million . 
The FTC ruled that the companies violated federal antitrust law by fixing rates in the following states : New Jersey , Pennsylvania , Connecticut , Wisconsin , Arizona and Montana . 
John Christie , a lawyer here for the two Chicago Title & Trust units accused the FTC of `` second-guessing '' state-level regulations , with which , he said , his clients had complied . 
MARK RESOURCES INC. , Calgary , Alberta , said it agreed to sell 75 million Canadian dollars -LRB- US$ 63.9 million -RRB- of 8 % convertible debentures to a group of securities dealers . 
The FADA real-estate package , with an asking price of $ 428 million , is comprised of 150 properties in Texas , California , Colorado , Arizona and Florida . 
The RTC , created by this year 's S&L bailout legislation , is trying to sell FADA 's network of offices separately . 
The properties held by FADA wo n't be sold piecemeal , Mr. Seidman said in a speech before Southern Methodist University Business School in Dallas . 
The bonds , rated double-A by Moody 's and S&P , were priced to yield from 6 % in 1991 to 7.10 % in 2010 . 
Serial bonds were priced to yield to 6.75 % in 2000 . 
They carry a 7 % coupon . 
The issue is being sold through Freddie Mac 's 17-member securities selling group . 
Then the computers give us more information than we can ever read . 
`` Filtered news is what people want , '' says Esther Dyson , editor of Release 1.0 , an industry newsletter that spots new developments . 
Geoffrey Goodfellow , who dropped out of high school back in the 1970s to manage a computer network at a California research firm , says : `` Old network hands have started to turn off the network because they do n't have time to wade through the muck . '' 
Mr. Goodfellow has started a Menlo Park , Calif. , company called Anterior Technology that provides human editors for public electronic networks . 
A new product , NewsEdge , carries five business news wires simultaneously into a user 's computer and beeps and flashes whenever an article appears that is of interest to the user . 
One early user , David Semmel , a Chicago venture capitalist and investor in Desktop Data , says he uses it to track takeover developments . 
He says he told NewsEdge to look for stories containing such words as takeover , acquisition , acquire , LBO , tender , merger , junk and halted . 
But some investors and consultants who have tried it are enthusiastic . 
Jeffrey Tarter , editor of SoftLetter , a Watertown , Mass. , industry newsletter , says : `` I 've seen a lot of people fooling around on the fringes of filtering information . 
Some organizations have devised their own systems to sort through news wire items as they come in . 
George Goodwin , an account manager at Royal Bank of Canada , adapted a Lotus Development Corp. program called Agenda to sort through international news wires . 
One early user is NEC Corp. 's U.S. printer marketing arm . 
Individual Inc. 's technology goes beyond word searches by using a computerized thesaurus . 
Moreover , Individual Inc. 's computers can weigh the value of an article based on how closely the story matches the subscriber 's interest area . 
It compares the position of key words in the story 
And it calculates how often the words appear in the story compared with how often they appear in the entire data base . 
Pinpoint Information Corp. , Chantilly , Va. , a producer of $ 1,800-a-year personalized newsletters about the computer industry that started full operation last month , relies on 12 human readers to code news releases by topic in order to select items for each subscriber . 
`` The computers find all the key words they can , but the editors confirm every one . 
Once all the articles are coded and put in a data base , Pinpoint 's computers pick the most relevant for each subscriber and lay them out in a three-to-five-page newsletter format 
`` All these interconnected computers make it difficult to sort out what 's junk and what 's important , '' says Chuck Digate , a former Lotus Development executive who has started a new company to cope with the problem . 
The MIT project devised ways for E-mail to be automatically categorized as top priority if it comes from certain designated senders or requires action in the next couple of days . 
One thing that makes E-mail difficult to sift through is that each item looks the same . 
`` With E-mail , you do n't have the visual clues of paper , '' says Mr. Tarter , the editor of SoftLetter . 
Dean Witter lost a separate case involving a former bond executive earlier this year 
Operating profit for world-wide tobacco products rose 10 % to $ 247.6 million . 
In the first nine months , net rose 1.5 % , to $ 458.8 million , or $ 4.76 a share , from $ 452 million , or $ 4.50 a share , a year earlier . 
The year-earlier period included $ 40.1 million , or 41 cents a share , from discontinued operations . 
Meanwhile , some U.S. officials fear PLO chief Arafat is getting cold feet and may back off from his recent moderation and renunciation of terrorism . 
He is under intense fire from other Palestinian groups 
Republicans as well as Democrats were angered by the budget director 's rejection of Speaker Foley 's effort to expedite a deficitcutting measure by stripping it of the capital-gains tax cut as well as pet Democratic projects . 
Senate GOP leader Dole ridicules the budget chief on the Senate floor . 
But Darman suggests such tensions will dissipate quickly . 
Britain , France and Italy pull out of a proposal to build new NATO frigates 
Britain , France and Italy pull out of a proposal to build new NATO frigates ; the U.S. and West Germany have each withdrawn from missile projects . 
Virginia GOP lieutenant governor candidate Eddy Dalton tries to have it both ways on the abortion issue . 
Though she opposes abortion in almost all cases , she airs a TV commercial using pro-choice buzzwords . 
MC SHIPPING Inc. , New York , declared an initial quarterly of 60 cents a share payable Nov. 15 to shares of record Oct. 30 . 
The company , which went public in May , intends to pay dividends from available cash flow 
Ever since the hotly contested America 's Cup race last year , the famous yachting match has run into more rough sailing out of the water than in it . 
Isler Sailing International 's advisory board includes Ted Turner , Turner Broadcasting chairman and a former Cup victor ; Peter G. Diamandis , head of Diamandis Communications , and Joseph B. Vittoria , chairman and chief executive of Avis Inc . 
`` We have the structure , people and plan , '' Mr. Isler said in a statement . 
The split comes in the midst of a court battle over whether the San Diego Yacht Club should be allowed to keep the international trophy for sailing a catamaran against the New Zealand challengers ' 90-foot monohull . 
`` If you do n't know what the rules of the game are , it 's hard to start your fund-raising or design , '' said Dana Smith , an official with Team Dennis Conner . 
But spokesmen for both Mr. Isler and Mr. Conner say the formation of the new syndicate has to do with Mr. Isler 's desire to skipper his own team and begin planning now , rather than any falling out between the two sportsmen . 
An incinerator is also probably better than having nobody next door -- on our farm there are four unoccupied houses . 
Throughout the 1970s , Stamford school and city officials made no effort to locate the mural . 
Mr. Hoelzer did n't return phone calls seeking comment on the judge 's decision . 
Mary E. Sommer , corporate counsel for Stamford , said the city has discussed several possible plans for displaying the mural , which portrays various scenes from the Great Depression . 
The Soviet purchases are close to exceeding what some analysts had expected the Soviet Union to buy this fall , the season in which it usually buys much of the corn it imports from the U.S. . 
One sign that more Soviet purchases are possible is that U.S. grain companies yesterday bought an unusually large amount of corn futures contracts . 
Rumors of Soviet interest also pushed up the prices of soybean futures contracts . 
The harvest delays , however , are expected to be temporary . 
Many farmers used the jump in prices to sell their recently harvested crop to grain elevator companies . 
Futures prices declined . 
A number of developments were negatively interpreted by traders . 
December delivery gold fell $ 1.80 an ounce to $ 370.60 . 
December delivery gold fell $ 1.80 an ounce to $ 370.60 . December silver eased 2.7 cents an ounce to $ 5.133 . 
He noted that the `` core inflation rate , '' which excludes food and energy , was also low at 0.2 % . 
Other news that weighed on the market : Initial unemployment claims rose by 62,000 last week ; American Telephone & Telegraph Co. will reduce its managerial staff by 15,000 through attrition 
Other news that weighed on the market : Initial unemployment claims rose by 62,000 last week ; American Telephone & Telegraph Co. will reduce its managerial staff by 15,000 through attrition ; the oil market turned weaker 
Also , the analyst said , economic circumstances are such that both South Africa and the Soviet Union , the principal gold and platinum producers , are being forced to continue selling the metals . 
Both are in great need of foreign exchange , and South Africa is also under pressure to meet foreign loan commitments , he said . 
Futures prices recovered in quiet trading . 
In recent days , however , there has been increased purchasing of copper in London , an analyst said . 
Some of this buying was by Japan , which has had its supplies sharply reduced by long production stoppages at the Bougainville mine in Papua New Guinea , Highland Valley mine in British Columbia , and the Cananea mine in Mexico , which are major shippers to Japan . 
Crude oil prices ended mixed . 
For instance , December contracts for WTI rose 17 cents to $ 20.42 . 
But a flurry of late trading yesterday beefed up prices . 
Mr. Belli , like many other personal-injury lawyers , suspects that the earthquake , which measured 6.9 on the Richter scale , will generate enough lawsuits to keep this city 's personal-injury and construction lawyers busy for quite some time . 
But lawyers looking to cash in on the quake may have a tough time once their cases reach a judge . 
Experts on California tort law say protections afforded government agencies in such cases are pretty ironclad . 
Even claims against individuals and companies face significant roadblocks . 
For now , says Laurence Drivon , president-elect of the 6,000-member California Trial Lawyers Association , `` the last thing we really need to worry about is whether anybody is going to get sued , or whether they have liability or not . 
But that wo n't stop plaintiffs ' lawyers from seeking a little room for maneuvering . 
`` My prediction is there will be mass litigation over errors and omissions in engineering and contracting , '' says Stanley Chesley , a well-known Cincinnati plaintiffs lawyer . 
From what he saw on television , Mr. Chesley points out that Interstate 880 , which collapsed and killed more than 200 commuters , suffered serious damage while surrounding buildings appeared to sustain no damage whatsoever . 
The flamboyant and publicity-conscious Mr. Belli says he already has investigators looking into who could be held liable for the damage on the Bay Bridge and the interstate approaching it . 
Mr. Belli says he wants to know whether state or federal engineers or private companies could have prevented the damage . 
Defense lawyers , perhaps understandably , say that plaintiffs ' lawyers taking such an approach will have little success in pursuing their claims , though they add that the facts of each case must be looked at individually . 
`` A lot of this is going to be code-related , '' says Ignazio J. Ruvolo , a construction law specialist at Bronson , Bronson & McKinnon , a San Francisco law firm . 
Government entities , continues Mr. Ruvolo , could be protected by the California Government Tort Liability Act . 
Under the statute , agencies are provided `` defenses that normally are n't available in the private sector , '' Mr. Ruvolo says . 
Built into the statute are so-called design immunities , which are likely to protect government agencies , according to Mr. Ruvolo and Richard Covert , a lawyer with the California Department of Transportation , which oversees the damaged Bay Bridge . 
The state is protected when plans and designs for public structures were approved ahead of time or when structures met previously approved standards , says Mr. Covert . 
If there 's going to be a race to the courthouse , it has n't started yet . 
Mr. Covert had to search through law books scattered on the floor of his office yesterday , and Mr. Belli 's courtyard was strewn with bricks . 
Wednesday , Mr. Belli 's staff was n't permitted into his office by city officials worried about their safety . 
In a news release issued by Mr. Drivon , the trial lawyers association also promised free assistance to victims . 
The British firm has begun court proceedings in London to prevent the use of the name `` Deloitte '' by Deloitte , Haskins & Sells and Touche Ross & Co. in England and the rest of the world . 
John Bullock , senior partner of Deloitte in the U.K. , said `` the decision to start these proceedings has n't been taken lightly . '' 
Mr. Bullock said the British firm has used the name `` Deloitte '' since 1845 . 
John C. Burton , an accounting professor at Columbia University 's Graduate School of Business , said `` there 's a lot of emotion involved in the name of an accounting firm with a long history and with roots in England , where accounting predates the U.S. . '' 
J. Michael Cook , chairman of Deloitte , Haskins & Sells International , said he believes the legal action by the British firm `` to be without merit . '' 
General Motors Corp. , a Deloitte audit client , for example , has agreed to keep its annual $ 18 million world-wide audit and associated tax work with the merged Deloitte-Touche firm , to be known as Deloitte & Touche in the U.S. . 
The defection of Deloitte 's affiliates in Britain and the Netherlands to Coopers & Lybrand will make Coopers one of the biggest accounting firms in Europe , rivaling KPMG Peat Marwick there . 
`` Politics has essentially put up a roadblock '' to finding sites for new federal prisons , Mr. Bennett said at a news conference called to report on his `` emergency assistance program '' for the capital . 
He acknowledged , however , that Washington 's `` drug-related murder rate is intolerably high . 
He acknowledged , however , that Washington 's `` drug-related murder rate is intolerably high . The prisons are too crowded . 
In a letter to Mr. Bennett 's office , released yesterday , Washington 's city administrator , Carol Thompson , complained that the drug czar had exaggerated the amount of federal drug-related assistance provided to the capital . 
He also noted that the federal Drug Enforcement Administration has established a federal-local task force responsible since April for 106 arrests and more than $ 2 million in seizures of drug dealers ' assets . 
In the wake of the earthquake in California and the devastation of Hurricane Hugo , many companies in disaster-prone areas are pondering the question of preparedness . 
Some , particularly in West Coast earthquake zones , are dusting off their evacuation plans , checking food stocks and reminding employees of what to do if emergency strikes . 
Preparedness involves more than flashlights and fire alarms these days . 
Some big companies have teams of in-house experts focusing on safety and business resumption . 
Many companies in the path of potential disaster have set up contingency offices in safe regions , hoping they can transport employees there and resume operations quickly . 
`` Self-sufficiency has to be the cornerstone of your plan , '' says Stephanie Masaki-Schatz , manager of corporate emergency planning at Atlantic Richfield Co. in Los Angeles . 
`` You need to capitalize on these moments when you have everyone 's attention , '' she says . 
It also recommends that employees be aware of everyday office items that could be used for emergency care or shelter . 
ARCO maintains an office in Dallas that would take over if payroll operations in Pasadena were disrupted . 
The ARCO plan takes into account such details as which aspects of business are busier at certain times of the year . 
At Hewlett-Packard Co. , the earthquake came just as the company was reviewing its own emergency procedures . 
The Palo Alto , Calif. , computer maker scrambled to set up a special phone line to tell manufacturing and support staff to stay home Wednesday . 
Hewlett-Packard also called in its systems experts to restore its own computer operations . 
Some companies are confident that they 're prepared . 
The park also has emergency centers where specially trained employees would go to coordinate evacuation and rescue plans using walkie-talkies , cellular phones , and a public-address system . 
Vista Chemical Co. , with three chemical plants in and near Lake Charles , La. , `` prepares for every hurricane that enters the Gulf of Mexico , '' says Keith L. Fogg , a company safety director . 
Because hurricanes can change course rapidly , the company sends employees home and shuts down operations in stages -- the closer a storm gets , the more complete the shutdown . 
The company does n't wait until the final hours to get ready for hurricanes . 
`` There are just tons of things that have to be considered , '' Mr. Fogg says . 
Still , Vista officials realize they 're relatively fortunate . 
`` With a hurricane you know it 's coming . 
You have time to put precautionary mechanisms in place , '' notes a Vista spokeswoman . 
Mr. Gaubert , who was chairman and the majority stockholder of Independent American , had relinquished his control in exchange for federal regulators ' agreement to drop their inquiry into his activities at another savings and loan . 
Earlier this week , a Fifth Circuit appellate panel upheld Judge Maloney 's dismissal of Mr. Gaubert 's claim as a shareholder but said the judge should reconsider Mr. Gaubert 's claim for the loss of his property . 
Mr. Gaubert 's lawyer , Abbe David Lowell of Washington , D.C. , says the impact of the ruling on other cases involving thrift takeovers will depend on the degree of similarity in the facts . 
`` I do n't know if this will affect one institution or a hundred , '' Mr. Lowell says . 
In a suit filed in state court in Manhattan , the American Civil Liberties Union is representing the former maitre 'd of the chic Odeon restaurant . 
The suit , which seeks compensatory and punitive damages of $ 1 million , alleges that the firing of Marcia Trees Levine violated New York state 's human-rights law . 
Ms. Levine told her employer that she was pregnant in February 
Kary Moss , an attorney with the ACLU 's Women 's Rights Project , said , `` They wanted a svelte-looking woman , and a pregnant woman is not svelte . 
Paul H. Aloe , an attorney for Odeon owner Keith McNally , denied the allegations . 
He said Ms. Levine had never been fired , although she had stopped working at the restaurant . 
Lawyers representing five of the seven defendants in the case say their clients can no longer afford their services . 
The defense lawyers , three of whom are solo practitioners , say they ca n't afford to put their law practices on hold for another seven-month trial . 
FEDERAL JUDGE ALCEE HASTINGS of Florida , facing impeachment , received an unanticipated boost yesterday . 
Sen. Arlen Specter -LRB- R. , Pa . -RRB- urged acquittal of the judge in a brief circulated to his Senate colleagues during closed-door deliberations . 
Six partners in the Richmond , Va. , firm of Browder , Russell , Morris & Butcher announced they are resigning . 
Five of the partners -- James W. Morris , Philip B. Morris , Robert M. White , Ann Adams Webster and Jacqueline G. Epps -- are opening a boutique in Richmond to concentrate on corporate defense litigation , particularly in product liability cases . 
However , operating profit fell 35 % to $ 16.4 million . 
Analysts said the company 's troubles mirror those of the industry . 
At the same time , newspapers are bedeviled by lagging national advertising , especially in its financial component . 
`` We expect next year to be a fairly soft year in newspaper-industry advertising , '' said John Morton , an analyst for Lynch , Jones & Ryan . 
John S. Reidy , an analyst for Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. , said , `` The Times faces the same problem of other publishers : linage is down . 
Analysts agreed with company expectations that operating profit will be down this year and in 1990 . 
Analysts said they were impressed by the performance of the company 's newspaper group 
Drexel Burnham 's Mr. Reidy pointed out that `` profits held up in a tough revenue environment . 
Stock and bond investors were cheered by last month 's encouragingly low inflation rate . 
This news raised hopes for further interest-rate cuts . 
The Dow Jones Industrial Average , up about 60 points in mid-afternoon , finished with a gain of 39.55 points , to 2683.20 . 
Indeed , over-the-counter stocks , led by technology issues , outleaped the industrial average . 
Many takeover-related stocks rose after news that a group obtained financing commitments for the proposed buy-out of American Medical International Inc . 
The government said consumer prices rose only 0.2 % last month . 
That news , plus recent signs of economic sluggishness , greatly increases pressure on the Federal Reserve to ease credit further , which in turn would be good news for stocks , investment managers say . 
`` I see a lot of evidence indicating a slower economy , and that means my interest-rate outlook has a downward tilt , '' said Garnett L. Keith Jr. , vice chairman of Prudential Insurance Co. of America , one of the nation 's largest institutional investors . 
Fed officials probably wo n't drive down rates immediately , Mr. Keith said . 
But Wall Street analysts expect further signs of economic weakness in government reports during the next few weeks . 
Investors also are anxious about today 's `` witching hour , '' the monthly expiration of stock-index futures and options , and options on individual stocks . 
In major market activity : Stock prices surged in heavy trading . 
The dollar was mixed . 
Tuesday 's rout of a GOP congressional hopeful in a Mississippi district that has n't backed a Democratic presidential candidate since Adlai Stevenson is another reminder that , at least at the federal level , political `` ticket splitting '' has been on the rise over the past half century . 
In only one presidential election year prior to 1948 did more than 20 % of the nation 's congressional districts choose a different party 's candidate for the White House than for the House of Representatives . 
As we know , voters tend to favor Republicans more in races for president than in those for Congress . 
In every presidential election over the past half century , except for the Goldwater presidential candidacy , the GOP has captured a greater percentage of the major-party popular vote for president than it has of congressional seats or the popular vote for Congress . 
If these assumptions hold , voters in races for Congress face what in economic theory is called a prisoner 's dilemma and have an incentive , at the margin , to lean Democratic . 
If they put a Republican into office , not only will they acquire less in terms of local benefits but their selected legislator will be relatively powerless to prevent other legislators from `` bringing home the bacon '' to their respective constituencies . 
In races for the White House , a voter 's incentive , at the margin , is to lean Republican . 
Although a GOP president may limit local benefits to the voter 's particular district\/state , such a president is also likely to be more effective at preventing other districts\/states and their legislators from bringing home the local benefits . 
Second , it explains why voters hold Congress in disdain but generally love their own congressional representatives 
For example , first-term members of the House , once the most vulnerable of incumbents , have become virtually immune to defeat . 
The one exception to this recent trend was the defeat of 13 of the 52 freshman Republicans brought into office in 1980 by the Reagan revolution and running for re-election in 1982 . 
Fourth , the theory indicates why the Republican Party may have a difficult time attracting viable candidates for congressional office . 
Potential candidates may be discouraged from running less by the congressional salary than by the prospect of defeat at the hands of a Democratic opponent . 
Fifth , the theory may provide at least a partial reason for why ticket splitting has been particularly pronounced in the South . 
Finally , the theory suggests why Republicans generally have fared better in Senate races than in campaigns for the House . 
First , economists James Bennett and Thomas DiLorenzo find that GOP senators turn back roughly 10 % more of their allocated personal staff budgets than Democrats do . 
This is indeed what the data indicate , particularly in the case of the House . 
An additional piece of evidence from the Senate : Holding other factors constant , such as incumbency advantages and regional factors , the difference between popular votes for Republican presidential and senatorial candidates in states conducting a Senate election turns out to be a positive function of how onerous the federal government 's tax burden is per state -LRB- a progressive tax rate hits higher-income states harder -RRB- . 
Moreover , ticket splitting appears to take the same peculiar pattern at the state government level as it does at the federal level . 
The action came as Congress sent to President Bush a fiscal 1990 bill providing an estimated $ 156.7 billion for the Departments of Labor , Education , Health and Human Services . 
Reversing an eight-year federal policy , the measure supports Medicaid abortions in cases of rape and incest , but Mr. Bush has so far refused to support any specific exemption beyond instances in which the mother 's life is in danger . 
The measure before the conference yesterday funds the Departments of State , Justice and Commerce through fiscal 1990 . 
Fiscal pressures also forced the adoption of new fees charged by federal agencies , and an 18 % increase in the Securities and Exchange Commission 's budget would be financed entirely by an added $ 26 million in filing fees . 
The odd mix of departments in the bill makes it one of the more eclectic of the annual appropriations measures , and the assorted provisions attached by lawmakers run from $ 1.5 million for a fish farm in Arkansas to a music festival in Moscow under the United States Information Agency . 
Senate Commerce Committee Chairman Ernest Hollings -LRB- D. , S.C. -RRB- , who also chairs the Senate appropriations subcommittee for the department , attached $ 10 million for an advanced technology initiative , including work on high-definition television . 
An estimated $ 321 million is provided to maintain the program , but Mr. Rudman also succeeded in attaching language seeking to curb the authority of the current board until new members are confirmed . 
The bill also provides $ 620.5 million to meet U.S. contributions to international organizations and $ 80 million for peace-keeping activities . 
Watching Congress sweat and grimace through its annual budget labors , fighting the urge to spend more , we 're reminded of those late-night movies in which the anguished serial killer turns himself in to police and says , `` Stop me before I kill again . '' 
I come to the floor tonight as one who ended up with a busload of extraneous matter . 
`` Frankly , as I was walking back to get in my car , I heard many , many people ... opening champagne bottles and celebrating individual victories that some of us had accomplished in getting our little deal in the tax bill and winking at this person for slipping this in , '' he said . 
We can applaud Mr. Pryor 's moment of epiphany , even as we understand that he and his confreres need restraint lest they kill again . 
Under the proposal , a President would have a chance twice each year to return a package of `` rescissions '' to the Hill -- once when he proposes his budget and again after Congress disposes . 
The proposal would restore some discipline erased from the budget process by the 1974 Budget `` Reform '' Act . 
Before 1974 , a President could `` impound , '' or refuse to spend , funds appropriated by Congress . 
Today a President can still send up spending rescissions , but they 're meaningless unless Congress has a guilty conscience and changes its mind . 
This is like asking foxes to feel remorse about chickens , and naturally rescissions are almost never approved . 
In 1987 , President Reagan sent 73 rescissions back to the Hill , but only 3 % of the spending total was approved by Congress . 
Senator Coats 's proposal would let the proposed spending cuts take place automatically unless Congress acts . 
President Bush has endorsed the idea , and at least 50 sitting Senators have voted to support enhanced rescission authority in the past . 
`` That is a minimum figure , and I underscore minimum , '' said House Speaker Thomas Foley -LRB- D. , Wash . -RRB- after conferring with California lawmakers . 
For the most part , major corporations ' headquarters and plants were unaffected or only slightly damaged by Tuesday 's earthquake , which registered 6.9 on the Richter scale . 
The city 's recovery from the earthquake was uneven . 
Banks indicated they were operating at greater than 90 % of their usual capacity , but a Nob Hill hotel said tourists had fled , leaving the previously full hotel with an 80 % vacancy rate . 
Banks indicated they were operating at greater than 90 % of their usual capacity , but a Nob Hill hotel said tourists had fled , leaving the previously full hotel with an 80 % vacancy rate . City crews tallied the wreckage to buildings , but lacked a clear sense of how gravely transportation arteries were disabled . 
The closed branches , in San Francisco , Hayward , Santa Clara and Santa Cruz , sustained structural damage . 
Power failures kept just seven of its 1,500 automated-teller machines off-line . 
Wells Fargo & Co. said its Emergency Operations Committee -- which met all night Tuesday -- moved its global-funds transfer system to El Monte , Calif. , 500 miles to the south . 
The most extensive damage was in small towns near the quake 's epicenter , 80 miles south of San Francisco . 
Santa Cruz County estimates total damage at nearly $ 600 million . 
San Francisco Mayor Art Agnos estimated that damages to the city total $ 2 billion . 
That includes dwellings in the ravaged Marina district that must be demolished , peeled business facades south of Market Street , and houses in the city 's outer Richmond district that were heaved off their foundations . 
FEMA , which coordinates federal disaster relief , is already strapped by the costs of cleaning up after Hurricane Hugo , which hit the Carolinas last month . 
White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said there is enough money on hand to deal with immediate requirements . 
`` We feel we have the money necessary to handle the immediate , short-term requirements , '' Mr. Fitzwater said . 
Much of the cost of cleaning up after the earthquake will involve repairing highways and bridges . 
Some things ca n't be repaired . 
The Asian Art Museum in Golden Gate Park reports $ 10 million to $ 15 million in damage , including shattered porcelains and stone figures . 
The ground along the Embarcadero the street that skirts the city 's eastern boundary and piers -- dropped six inches after the quake , wreaking major damage to at least one of the piers . 
At San Francisco International Airport , shock waves wrecked the control tower , knocking down computers and shattering glass . 
A major chunk of the $ 2 billion is expected to be eaten up by overtime for city workers deployed in the emergency , said a spokesman for Mr. Agnos . 
`` Claims range from a scratched fender -- and there were an awful lot of cars damaged in this -- to a major processing plant , '' a spokesman said . 
In addition , under the highway-relief program , the federal government provides 100 % of emergency highway aid for only the first 90 days of a repair effort . 
After that , the federal share diminishes . 
Transportation officials are expecting utter traffic pandemonium beginning Monday and growing worse over the next several weeks . 
Some 250,000 cars normally cross the closed Bay Bridge between Oakland and San Francisco daily . 
Moreover , state officials are urging freight haulers to bypass many of the area 's main highways and to travel late at night or during predawn hours . 
Even so , `` We 're looking for chaos , '' said George Gray , a deputy district director at the California Department of Transportation . 
Most of San Francisco 's tourists and business travelers already have left -- despite hotel 's offers of rate cuts . 
The Westin St. Francis hotel , which survived the 1906 earthquake and fire , currently is less than 50 % occupied . 
`` We still have our die-hard baseball fans , '' a spokesman said . 
Apparently so . 
Now that Vietnam appears to have pulled out its occupation army , the State Department is talking again about accepting an `` interim '' coalition government in the Cambodian capital of Phnom Penh . 
The aim would be to end the guerrilla war for control of Cambodia by allowing the Khmer Rouge a small share of power . 
The usual problem with including communists in `` interim '' coalition governments is that their ideology and methods require they squeeze out everyone else . 
Recall that Nicaragua 's Sandinistas came into Managua as partners in a coalition government with anti-Somoza moderates . 
Within two years , the moderates were exiled or in prison , Nicaragua had gone communist , and the Sandinistas were building one of the biggest armies in Latin America and threatening their neighbors . 
In Laos , when the Western powers bowed to pressure for such a coalition it turned out they were opening the door to communist domination . 
What complicates the scene in Cambodia is that the current regime is already communist , as are its Vietnamese overseers back in Hanoi , as are the Khmer Rouge -- who are the strongest of the three guerrilla groups . 
It 's not clear which crew of communists might prevail in a coalition government , but the one good bet is that the non-communists would disappear . 
The Khmer Rouge , however , carry an unsurpassed record for Cambodian tyranny . 
These utopians caused the deaths -- by starvation , disease or execution -- of well over one million Cambodians . 
But there is no solid evidence that the Khmer Rouge have changed . 
So it 's difficult to swallow the notion that Mr. Baker is willing to accept conditions that would help the Khmer Rouge set up shop again in Phnom Penh . 
Nor should the U.S. worry much about offending China , which still aids the Khmer Rouge . 
For the U.S. to lend even the slightest support to the most infamous killers on Indochina 's bleak scene could only disturb America 's allies elsewhere . 
It would be entirely rational for communist insurgents in countries such as the Philippines or Peru to conclude the following : Fight viciously enough and the U.S. , under the banner of pragmatism , might eventually help negotiate your way to victory . 
But now the possibility of `` diplomatic movement '' -LRB- Vietnam 's withdrawal , the Baker initiative -RRB- has put that plan on hold , with the proviso that if the going got rough , the U.S. would then rearm the opposition . 
Why the timidity ? 
At the very least , the odds are heavily weighted against the prospects of preventing the Khmer Rouge and Cambodia 's communists from ultimately moving against their opponents . 
Michael F. Harris , 53 , was named executive vice president , North America , for the Financial Times , the business newspaper published by this company that also has interests in book publishing , fine china , oil services and investment banking . 
The restructuring calls for a 24 % reduction in its work force over the next two months , affecting about 525 jobs , Cipher Data said . 
FileNet Corp. , Costa Mesa , Calif. , said it expects to report a third-quarter loss of about $ 1.8 million , or 17 cents a share , because of a $ 2.5 million reserve to be taken against potential losses on a contract with the state of California . 
The maker of document image processing equipment said the state procurement division had declared FileNet in default on its contract with the secretary of state uniform commercial code division . 
But , he continues , `` They 're forgetting we 're all Texans . 
As the ad 's tone implies , the Texas spirit is pretty xenophobic these days , and Lone Star is n't alone in trying to take advantage of that . 
While advertisers have long appealed to Texans ' state pride and prejudices , the latest trend has been sparked , in part , by the state 's recent hard economic times . 
That has taken some of the swagger out of natives who like to brag that Texas is the only state that was once a nation , but it has increased their legendary resentment of outsiders . 
Lone Star 's Bond Corp. parent , for instance , hails from Perth , Australia . 
Lone Star 's Bond Corp. parent , for instance , hails from Perth , Australia . North Carolinians , New Yorkers , Californians , Chicagoans and Ohioans own Texas banks . 
All kinds of landmark Texas real estate has been snapped up by out-of-staters . 
`` Texas has lost its distinctiveness , leaving Texans with a hunger to feel proud about themselves , '' says Stephen Klineberg , a sociology professor at Rice University , Houston . 
For example , the iced-tea radio campaign for Thomas J. Lipton Co. , an Englewood Cliffs , N.J. , unit of Anglo-Dutch Unilever Group , emphatically proclaims : `` Real Texans do not wear dock-siders -- ever . 
Real Texans do n't play paddleball , at least I hope not . 
And ad agencies insist that they do . 
Stan Richards of Richards Group Inc. , Dallas , tells of the Texan who saw the agency 's tear-jerking commercial for First Gibraltar Bank F.S.B. -- complete with the state 's anthem -- and promptly invested $ 100,000 in the thrift 's CDs . 
And deposits at NCNB Texas National Bank , a unit of NCNB Corp. , Charlotte , N.C. , have increased $ 2 billion since last year after heavy advertising stressing commitment to Texas . 
The ad campaigns usually follow one of three tracks -- stressing the company 's ` Texasness , ' pointing out the competition 's lack thereof , or trying to be more Texan than Texans . 
Ford trucks may outsell Chevy trucks in places like `` Connecticut and Long Island , '' sniffs a commercial for Chevrolet , a division of General Motors Corp . 
The commercial , created by Bateman , Bryan & Galles Inc. , of Dallas , adds derisively : `` I bet it takes a real tough truck to haul your Ivy League buddies to the yacht club . '' 
The most-strident anti-outsider sentiment among bankers comes from the Independent Bankers Association of Texas , although it 's hard to tell from previews of the $ 5 million `` The I 's of Texas '' TV campaign . 
Commercials will highlight heart-rending scenes of Texas and chest-swelling , ain't-it-great-to-be-a-Texan music . 
But in introductory material for the campaign , the trade group urges members to `` arm '' for a `` revolution '' against big , out-of-state bank-holding companies . 
A video sent to association members , featuring shots of the Alamo , cowboys , fajitas and a statue of Sam Houston , does n't mince words . 
Sunshine Biscuits Inc. , Woodbridge , N.J. , awarded its estimated $ 5 million account to Waring & LaRosa , New York . 
MacNamara Clapp & Klein , a small New York shop , is asking magazine ad representatives to tell it when major advertising inserts will run in their publications . 
Although the personal computer maker said it expects revenue to meet or exceed previous projections of $ 385 million for the year ending Jan. 28 , 1990 , earnings are expected to be 25 cents to 35 cents a share , down from previous estimates of 50 cents to 60 cents . 
Results for the third quarter ending Oct. 31 , are expected to be released the third week of November , according to Michael Dell , chairman and chief executive officer . 
Mr. Dell said he does n't expect a loss in either the third or fourth quarter , but said third-quarter earnings could be as low as four cents a share . 
Mr. Dell attributed the earnings slide to new product delays , such as a laptop scheduled for September that wo n't be introduced until early November . 
Product delays , however , have left Dell buffeted by harsher competition in its bread-and-butter line of desktop computers , as powerhouse competitors Compaq Computer Corp. and International Business Machines Corp. price their PCs more aggressively . 
In the year-earlier quarter , the well-servicing contractor had net income of $ 319,000 , or 3 cents a share , on revenue of about $ 15 million . 
Nine-month net fell 9.5 % to $ 323.4 million , or $ 1.36 a share , from $ 357.2 million , or $ 1.32 a share , a year earlier . 
This year 's nine-month results include gains of $ 13 million , or five cents a share , from the sale of Schlumberger 's defense systems business , and $ 22 million , or nine cents a share , from an award by the IranU.S . Claims Tribunal . 
NEW ENGLAND CRITICAL CARE Inc. offered $ 35 million in convertible subordinated debentures through Morgan Stanley & Co. and Prudential-Bache Capital Funding . 
The debentures , due in 2014 , have a coupon of 7 3\/4 % , payable semiannually . 
Dumez said group profit after payments to minority interests rose to 252 million francs -LRB- $ 40.1 million -RRB- from 148 million a year earlier . 
The group noted that 75 million francs of the advance reflected a one-time gain from the June offering by its United Westburne unit in Canada . 
For all of 1988 , Dumez had group profit of 452 million francs after payment to minority interests . 
`` California prices were already coming down . 
One San Francisco neighborhood likely to test Mr. Rosen 's theory soon is the city 's fashionable Marina district , which boasts some of the highest home prices in the state . 
The district , built on landfill , suffered heavy quake damage , including collapsed buildings . 
Brokers agreed with the two-tier price theory . 
`` My gut feeling is that the Marina properties will be affected , '' said Grace Perkins , senior vice president at Grubb & Ellis Residential Brokerage Inc . 
Mr. Renzas , among others , said the quake will prod companies in certain industries , like semiconductors , computers and aerospace , to consider moving operations that involve particularly sensitive machinery to locations outside California . 
One Southern California aerospace firm , for example , two months ago asked Location Management to compare the costs of reinforcing its current building against earthquakes with the cost of building a new structure elsewhere . 
NATIONWIDE HEALTH PROPERTIES , Pasadena , Calif. , said it would n't pay its fourth-quarter dividend , despite a 44 % increase in third-quarter earnings , to $ 3.5 million , or 42 cents a share . 
A year earlier , Nationwide Health earned $ 2.4 million , or 29 cents a share . 
Nationwide Health said that although it has the cash to cover the 25-cent-a-share dividend , its banks have denied the company 's request to pay it because the trust has n't met certain terms . 
Net income rose to $ 97.9 million , or $ 1.15 a share , from $ 50.5 million , or 60 cents a share , a year earlier . 
Sales increased 7 % to $ 1.49 billion from $ 1.39 billion . 
The federal government initiative follows a recent Canadian Supreme Court decision that held that the major telephone companies in Alberta , Saskatchewan and Manitoba and in the Atlantic coast provinces were interprovincial undertakings and subject to federal legislative authority . 
Under terms of the loan agreement , Amdura said it will omit the next quarterly dividends on its Series A , B , C and D preferred shares , which are due Nov. 15 . 
Separately , Century Bank , Phoenix , Ariz. , was closed by Arizona banking officials . 
The failed bank had assets of about $ 129.6 million . 
Cie . Financiere de Paribas said it intends to transfer its 30 % shareholding in Societe Commerciale to a new company which will be jointly owned with Lonrho . 
But the partners did n't believe the market for the systems was developing as rapidly as they had hoped . 
Volume on the first section was estimated at 800 million shares , compared with 841 million Wednesday . 
The morning session was dominated by individuals and dealers , but some institutions participated in the afternoon , encouraged by the market 's firmness , traders said . 
Pharmaceuticals made across-the-board advances . 
Housing issues were boosted by a report that Daiwa House expects to post 43 % higher earnings for its latest fiscal year , traders said . 
Steel shares fell back after advancing for three days . 
London 's Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100-share index finished 19.2 points higher at 2189.3 . 
Volume continued to ease from the active dealings at the start of the week . 
General Universal Stores , another top-tier stock hit recently by concerns over retail demand in the face of high interest rates , gained 20 to # 10.44 . 
Royal Insurance was the sector 's hottest issue , ending 15 higher at 465 . 
B.A.T Industries surged in afternoon dealings after its shareholders approved a plan to dispose of its U.S. and U.K. retailing operations to fend off Hoylake Investment 's # 13.4 billion -LRB- $ 21.33 billion -RRB- hostile bid . 
Turnover was 6.8 million shares , including about four million shares traded in the afternoon after the shareholders ' meeting . 
In other European markets , shares closed sharply higher in Stockholm , Frankfurt , Zurich and Paris and higher in Milan , Amsterdam and Brussels . 
Mr. Agnos complained that he was `` ticked off '' that Vice President Dan Quayle , who toured the earthquake site Wednesday , did n't schedule a private meeting with him . 
The White House said Mr. Quayle 's staff had invited the mayor to two meetings of the vice president and groups of local officials and had offered to dispatch a helicopter to pick him up . 
Marlin Fitzwater , White House press secretary , also asserted that Mr. Agnos had failed to return telephone calls from John Sununu , White House chief of staff . 
By late yesterday , both sides appeared prepared to bury the hatchet . 
Mr. Semel and his firm , Semel & Co. , have appealed the Comex decision and the sanctions to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission . 
The lawsuit states that unless the sanctions are halted pending an appeal , the broker and his firm `` will be irreparably injured and their business will be totally and permanently destroyed . '' 
Fannie Mae has agreed to buy as much as $ 100 million of loans under its Seniors ' Housing Opportunities pilot program , which offers four types of loans to people 62 years of age or older to help them maintain their home or obtain housing . 
Fannie Mae makes a secondary market in home loans . 
Mr. Gintel , head of Gintel & Co. , said he plans to conduct a proxy contest to elect a majority of Xtra 's board at the next annual stockholders meeting . 
Mr. Gintel owns 300,000 of the company 's 6.3 million common shares outstanding . 
STOCKS AND BONDS SURGED on the second anniversary of Black Monday as a favorable inflation report prompted speculation of lower interest rates . 
The rally brought the gain so far this week to about 114 points . 
Consumer prices climbed a moderate 0.2 % in September , mostly due to higher clothing costs . 
British Airways dropped out of the current bidding for United Air 's parent , leaving a UAL management-pilots group without a key partner . 
Digital Equipment 's profit fell 32 % in the latest quarter , prompting forecasts of weaker results ahead . 
BankAmerica 's profit jumped 34 % in the third quarter . 
Big Board short interest fell 4.2 % for the month ended Oct. 13 , the second decline in a row . 
NASA awarded the contract to CSC in November but an appeal by Sterling Software Inc. of Dallas sent the contract to the General Services Administration Board of Contract Appeals and the board required NASA to re-evaluate bidders ' proposals . 
As power and commuters returned to much of downtown San Francisco for the first time since Tuesday 's temblor in the Bay area , three strong aftershocks , one measuring 5.0 on the Richter scale , jolted the region . 
Californians , meanwhile , tried to cope with still-limited services , blocked roadways and water shortages in the aftermath of the tremor that left scores dead and injured . 
The Senate rejected a constitutional amendment sought by Bush to prohibit desecration of the U.S. flag . 
While the proposal won a slight majority , the 51-48 vote was well short of the two-thirds needed to approve changes in the Constitution . 
East Germany 's new leader met with Lutheran Church officials to discuss a growing opposition movement demanding democratic freedoms . 
A leading U.S. human-rights monitor also was briefly held . 
GOP Sen. Specter of Pennsylvania said he would vote to acquit federal Judge Alcee Hastings in his impeachment trial on charges of perjury and bribery conspiracy . 
The U.S. unit dipped to a session low against the mark just after the release of the U.S. consumer price index . 
The report showed that September consumer prices rose just 0.2 % , a smaller increase than expected . 
In late New York trading yesterday , the dollar was quoted at 1.8470 marks , down from 1.8485 marks late Wednesday , and at 141.70 yen , up from 141.45 yen late Wednesday . 
Some analysts said the consumer price index reflects a more significant slowdown in the U.S. economy than earlier indicated . 
The Deerfield , Ill. , medical products and services company posted net of $ 102 million , or 34 cents a share , compared with $ 85 million , or 28 cents a share , a year ago . 
Earlier this month , IMA said it had received about $ 1 billion of senior debt financing from Chemical Bank and six other banks 
H&R Block is one of the great success stories of U.S. business . 
Some money managers are disenchanted with H&R Block because they suspect the company 's glory days are past , or at least passing . 
The Street knows all about the predictability of its earnings , which are headed for a ninth consecutive yearly increase . 
But the tax-preparation business simply has no more room to grow , says Mark Cremonie , director of research for Capital Supervisors Inc. , a Chicago firm that manages $ 6.5 billion . 
Mr. Cremonie 's firm once held about 4.8 % of H&R Block . 
That was before the 1986 tax `` reform '' made taxes more complex than ever . 
But Capital Supervisors sold the last of its H&R Block holdings earlier this year . 
`` They 're thrashing around for diversification , '' he says . 
Last week the stock hit an all-time high of 37 1\/4 before getting roughed up in the Friday-the-13th minicrash . 
To be sure , the stock still has a lot of fans . 
`` If you invested $ 10,000 in the initial public offering in 1962 , it would be worth well over $ 5 million today , '' says Fredric E. Russell , a Tulsa , Okla. , money manager . 
`` I do n't know what the risk is -LCB- of holding the stock -RCB- . 
Many of his peers feel the same way . 
The number of big institutions that own H&R Block shares is 207 and growing , according to a midyear tally by CDA Investment Technologies . 
Brokerage houses are sweet on H&R Block , too . 
Zacks Investment Research counts five brokerage houses that consider the stock a buy , and four that call it a hold . 
That 's `` not bad , '' Mr. Sit says , but it sure does n't justify Block shares being priced at 15 to 16 times estimated earnings for fiscal 1990 . 
He wants stocks whose price\/earnings ratio is less than their growth rate 
`` The stock was going no place and the earnings were so-so , '' said one . 
-LRB- In the past two years , the stock almost stalled out . 
`` There 's no more growth in the tax business -LCB- except -RCB- for increasing prices , '' the money manager added . 
CompuServe provides about 20 % of both sales and earnings . 
The tax business still provides about 70 % of earnings , on about 50 % of sales . 
The shortage of nurses is crimping profit at Personnel Pool , said the second money manager . 
He concedes H&R Block is `` well-entrenched '' and `` a great company , '' but says `` it does n't grow fast enough for us . 
Mr. Bloch concedes that a recent diversification attempt fell through . 
The Dayton , Ohio , maker of parts for the building and transportation industries said holders of the two issues can convert their stock into common shares through the close of business Dec. 1 . 
Each $ 1 cumulative share can be converted into 4.92 common shares 
Options lost some of their mystery in 1973 when the Chicago Board of Trade set up a special exchange to deal in them . 
So the men who ran the grain pits listened when Joseph Sullivan , a 35-year-old former Wall Street Journal newsman , offered them the idea of all-options trading . 
The CBOE opened for business on April 26 , 1973 , in what had been a Board of Trade lunchroom . 
The CBOE opened for business on April 26 , 1973 , in what had been a Board of Trade lunchroom . It listed just 16 options to buy a `` pilot list '' of stocks on the New York Stock Exchange . 
The CBOE opened for business on April 26 , 1973 , in what had been a Board of Trade lunchroom . It listed just 16 options to buy a `` pilot list '' of stocks on the New York Stock Exchange . -LRB- Puts , or sell options , would not be added until 1977 . -RRB- 
The first day 's business was 911 contracts -LRB- each for 100 shares of one of the listed stocks -RRB- . 
By the end of 1973 , the number of `` underlying '' Big Board stocks had been increased to 50 and the options exchange had run up volume of 1.1 million contracts . 
A year later , it was 5.7 million . 
The new exchange drew instant recognition from an unwelcome quarter . 
Massachusetts Attorney General James Shannon , opposing the license , said he will appeal the ruling in federal court . 
Bristol-Myers Co. and Squibb Corp. , Princeton , N.J. , merged Oct. 4 , but the new company reported third-period earnings for both companies . 
Bristol-Myers said net income rose 15 % to $ 266.2 million , or 93 cents a share , from $ 232.3 million , or 81 cents a share , a year earlier . 
Squibb Corp. said net rose 17 % to $ 144.5 million , or $ 1.47 a share , from $ 123 million , or $ 1.25 a share . 
For the nine months , Jefferies said net fell 39 % , to $ 6.8 million , or $ 1.07 a share , from $ 11.1 million , or $ 1.50 a share . 
In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission , Sony also said two more suits have been filed opposing the company 's agreement to buy Columbia . 
Both China and Taiwan are seeking seats in GATT , which sponsors trade-liberalizing agreements and sets world-commerce rules . 
China , under the Nationalist government of Chiang Kai-shek , was a founding member of GATT in 1947 . 
Wacoal said it intends to produce the cars through a car manufacturer . 
`` Our image is a company that makes women 's products , '' said a Wacoal spokesman . 
The British satirical magazine Private Eye won an appeal against the size of a $ 960,000 libel award to Sonia Sutcliffe , the estranged wife of the `` Yorkshire Ripper '' mass murderer . 
Senshukai Co. , a travel agent based in Osaka , Japan , announced that it and Nissho Iwai Corp. , a major Japanese trading house , will jointly build a 130-unit condominium in Queensland , Australia . 
A former vice president of the Singapore branch of Drexel Burnham Lambert Group Inc. was charged in court yesterday on 19 counts of cheating . 
Francis Dang , 41 , is alleged to have been involved in cheating Drexel Burnham Lambert of up to 2.1 million Singapore dollars -LRB- US$ 1.1 million -RRB- by carrying out unauthorized transactions on the London Commodities Exchange and the International Petroleum Exchange . 
A Ministry of International Trade and Industry official said that a study found that Japan 's annual economic growth rate would eventually be only 0.8 % if carbon-dioxide emissions remained at this year 's level of 300 million tons . 
The study said Japan 's carbon-dioxide emissions would slightly more than double by 2010 unless the nation reduced its dependence on fossil fuels . 
Just in time for Halloween , Britain 's Oxford University Press is publishing a `` Dictionary of Superstitions . '' 
In New Zealand 's tiny township of Kaitaia , which has had direct dialing for less than a year , about 30 angry phone-company customers questioned the size of their bills . 
About 5,500 hourly workers will be laid off for a week beginning Oct. 23 , and overtime has been eliminated at the plant for the fourth quarter , a Chrysler spokesman said . 
Instead , Chrysler officials in late May slapped $ 1,000 cash rebates on the vehicles , including the first such incentives on the popular four-door Cherokee since Chrysler bought Jeep in 1987 . 
The result : Chrysler dealers had a bloated 82-day supply of the Cherokee as of the end of last month and a 161-day supply of the Comanche pickup , which Toledo also builds . 
At Jasper Jeep-Eagle , one of the largest Jeep dealerships in the country , inventories have continued to swell . 
Separately , Chrysler said it will idle for four weeks the St. Louis assembly plant that builds the Chrysler LeBaron and Dodge Daytona models . 
GM said the assembly plant , which builds the Chevrolet Corsica and Beretta compact cars , originally was scheduled to reopen Monday but now will not resume production until Oct. 30 . 
Sluggish sales of the Beretta and Corsica spurred GM to offer $ 800 rebates on those cars . 
Ford Motor Co. said it will shut down for one week its Kentucky Truck Plant because of a `` shortage of dealer orders . '' 
The bank holding company posted net income of $ 54.4 million , or 87 cents a share , including $ 1.7 million , or three cents a share , in one-time tax benefits . 
First Fidelity said non-performing assets increased to $ 482.3 million Sept. 30 from $ 393.1 million June 30 . 
The rise resulted from the transfer to non-accrual status of $ 96 million `` owed by two national borrowers and one local commercial real-estate customer , '' First Fidelity said . 
Coastal Corp. said it signed a definitive agreement with Aruba to restart a 150,000-barrel-a-day oil refinery . 
Coastal , a Houston oil and gas company , said it expects to begin operations in October 1990 . 
The company said it was leasing the site of the refinery from Aruba . 
A Coastal spokesman said the biggest expense will be to refurbish the refinery but would n't say how much that would be . 
Loral also reported that its bookings more than doubled to $ 654 million in the quarter , ended Sept. 30 , from $ 257 million , in the year-before period . 
Mr. Schwartz said the recent increase in orders `` puts us well on the way to our goal of $ 1.6 billion in bookings for the year . '' 
Loral 's profit from continuing operations for the first six months of fiscal 1990 was $ 36.4 million , or $ 1.44 a share , up 31 % from $ 27.8 million , or $ 1.11 a share , a year earlier . 
In addition , HealthVest said Bank of Tokyo Trust Co. also has notified it of a default and said it might take action to cure the default . 
Storage , Louisville , Colo. , which makes data-storage devices for mainframe computers , said the huge increase in net reflects `` strong sales '' of its tape products , particularly the 4400 Automated Cartridge System , which holds a library of tape cartridges . 
The stock market reacted strongly to the news . 
For the nine months , Storage had net of $ 25.5 million , or 98 cents a share , including an $ 11.3 million extraordinary gain for the anticipated proceeds from liquidating an Irish unit . 
U.S. buyers have already been lined up . 
Esso , a unit of Imperial Oil Ltd. which is 71%-owned by Exxon Corp. , will be allowed to export 5.1 trillion cubic feet to the U.S. in the 20-year period . 
Combustion Engineering , which provides engineered products , systems and services for power generation , also sold Illinois Minerals Co. , based in Cairo , Ill . 
In 1900 , for instance , less than 8 % of assets went into bank deposits . 
Housing , for instance , has remained a fairly steady component of household assets over the past decade -- although common wisdom would have expected an increase . 
`` But it has n't increased much relative to other assets . 
In addition , investors ' desire to hold stocks -- directly and through mutual funds -- has held surprisingly steady 
In addition , investors ' desire to hold stocks -- directly and through mutual funds -- has held surprisingly steady ; stocks ' importance among assets largely reflects the ups and downs of the stock market , and not a shift in stock-holding preferences . 
`` Stocks have not spread to the general public , despite the fact that the environment is much different , '' concludes Robert Avery , an economist at Cornell University . 
The letter outlines broad powers for an independent group of directors provided for in the revised offer . 
McCaw said the three independent directors provided for in the offer would be designated by the current board . 
The successors would be nominated by the independent directors . LIN would have a priority right to pursue all opportunities to acquire U.S. cellular interests in markets other than those in which McCaw holds an interest , or which are contiguous to those markets , unless LIN has an interest there or contiguous to it . McCaw said the three independent directors provided for in the offer would be designated by the current board . 
McCaw said the three independent directors provided for in the offer would be designated by the current board . The successors would be nominated by the independent directors . LIN would have a priority right to pursue all opportunities to acquire U.S. cellular interests in markets other than those in which McCaw holds an interest , or which are contiguous to those markets , unless LIN has an interest there or contiguous to it . Independent directors would have veto rights to any acquisition if they unanimously decide it is n't in LIN 's best interest . Independent directors would be able to block transactions they unanimously deem would be likely to depress the private market value of LIN at the time it is to be sold in five years . If LIN is put up for sale rather than purchased by McCaw in five years , McCaw wo n't submit a bid unless the independent directors request it , and the independent directors will run the bidding . 
MCA said revenue rose 14 % to $ 918.4 million from $ 806.7 million . 
MCA said net also included certain reserves related to the restructuring of its LJN Toys ' international operations . 
In the nine months , net rose 35 % to $ 120.1 million , or $ 1.64 a share , from $ 89.2 million , or $ 1.22 a share , a year earlier . 
New York State law prohibits insurance brokerages from deriving more than 10 % of revenue from insuring affiliated companies . 
Helmsley 's insurance premiums are expected to be transferred to several different insurance brokerage companies . 
Frank B. Hall Inc. of Briarcliff Manor , N.Y. is reportedly working out an agreement with Helmsley . 
A pickup truck driven by a white farmer rumbles past with a load of black workers bouncing in the back . 
Over at Conradies , the general store , a black stock boy scurries to help an elderly white woman with her packages . 
But inside the white walls of the Orange Workers ' office -- just about the largest building in town , save for the Dutch Reformed Church and the school -- South Africa 's neat racial order is awry . 
A dozen white office workers fold newsletters and stuff them into envelopes . 
A dozen white office workers fold newsletters and stuff them into envelopes . White women serve tea and coffee , and then wash the cups and saucers afterwards . 
A dozen white office workers fold newsletters and stuff them into envelopes . White women serve tea and coffee , and then wash the cups and saucers afterwards . White children empty the wastepaper baskets and squeegee the windows . 
There is n't a black worker in sight . 
Here , then , is where the Orange Workers have come to make apartheid 's last stand . 
Their idea is to create a city , first , and then an entire nation -- without blacks . 
But their ideal of an Afrikaner homeland , an all-white reserve to be carved out of present-day South Africa , is a mainstream desire of the right-wing , which embraces about one-third of the country 's five million whites . 
Afrikaner philosophers and theologians have long ruminated on the need for a white homeland . 
Thus , farmer Johan Fischer , his T-shirt and jeans covered in grease , crawls around under his planter , tightening bolts and fixing dents . 
But not here . 
Over at the fiberglass factory , four white workers assemble water tanks on their own , and in their spare time they build townhouses across the road . 
On Main Street , Alida Verwoerd and her daughters look after the clothes and fabric shop , then hurry home to fix lunch for the rest of the family . 
Down by the stream , a group of Orange Workers puts the finishing touches on a golf course . 
`` If we want to survive as a people , '' he says , `` we have to change our way of life . 
In their quest to perfect apartheid , the Orange Workers have discovered a truth that most of privileged white South Africa tries mightily to deny 
Somewhere , the son sighs , things went terribly wrong with apartheid 
The Orange Workers speak sincerely . 
`` We agree with world opinion that the status quo in South Africa is morally wrong , '' says Pieter Bruwer , the Orange Workers ' chief scribe and pamphleteer . 
Morgenzon has long been a special domain of Afrikanerdom . 
Then , when Morgenzon was incorporated in 1908 , the farmer who owned the land stipulated that only whites could reside in town 
Today , Morgenzon is a town of 800 whites and two paved roads . 
Today , Morgenzon is a town of 800 whites and two paved roads . Weeds push up through the cracks in the sidewalks , and many houses and storefronts are empty . 
There are few factories and no mines . 
Still , complete and total segregation remains elusive . 
The 650-or-so local whites who are n't Orange Workers are more troubled . 
`` Impossible , impossible , '' say the Conradies , an elderly couple who have run the general store for decades . 
`` We ca n't do without their help , '' says Mrs. Conradie . 
`` Oh no . 
Over at the Shell station , owner Rudi van Dyk , who doubles as Morgenzon 's mayor , worries that the Orange Workers have made his town the laughingstock of the nation . 
`` What they want us to do just is n't practical , '' he says , noting that he employs 16 blacks . 
`` I could n't afford to hire 16 whites . 
`` We urge our people not to wait until they have to fight for their own nation , '' says Mr. Verwoerd . 
Curiously , he compares the Orange Workers to the ANC , which his father outlawed in 1960 . 
He apologizes for sounding pushy . 
We 'll leave them alone . 
After last Friday 's stock-market plunge , investment professionals cautioned people to resist the urge to call their brokers and sell stocks . 
Not selling into a panic turned out to be very good advice 
`` The market is sending nervous signals , '' says Peter J. Canelo , chief market strategist for Bear , Stearns & Co. , and it 's `` unwise '' to be overcommitted to stocks . 
Not everybody agrees that it 's time to trim . 
`` We are n't inclined to prune stock portfolios now , '' says Steven G. Einhorn , chairman of the investment policy committee of Goldman , Sachs & Co . 
`` Investors should stay with their stocks . 
We expect a choppy and sloppy market for a short period , but we do n't think it will be ugly . 
GET RID OF THE DOGS . 
`` Sell stocks that are n't doing well now , and that do n't have good earnings prospects , '' says Alfred Goldman , technical analyst at St. Louis-based A.G. Edwards & Sons . 
`` Most people do just the opposite 
`` Most people do just the opposite : They sell their winners and keep their losers . '' 
WATCH FOR EARNINGS DISAPPOINTMENTS . 
A company does n't have to post a loss to be a candidate for sale , says Charles I. Clough Jr. , chief market strategist at Merrill Lynch & Co . 
John Markese , director of research for the American Association of Individual Investors , raises a cautionary note . 
`` Substituting a rule of thumb for your own judgment '' can be a mistake , he says . 
But Mr. Clough says , `` The risk is that earnings disappointments will continue . '' 
The economy is decelerating after six good years , and `` right now it 's better to shoot first and ask questions later . '' 
BEWARE OF HEAVY DEBT . 
Mr. Canelo of Bear Stearns agrees 
Mr. Canelo of Bear Stearns agrees : `` If we do have an economic slowdown , '' he says , `` companies with high debt ratios will be dumped en masse . '' 
UAL Corp. 's difficulty in obtaining bank financing for its leveraged buy-out and its resulting price plunge is a tip-off to what 's going to happen to `` takeover stocks , '' says Mr. Canelo . 
Takeover activity will slow down as more and more banks tighten their lending requirements , he says . 
Moreover , many financial advisers say individuals should be in the stock market as long-term investors , not as traders trying to catch the next hot stock . 
COMPARE P\/E RATIOS WITH PROSPECTS . 
Mr. Canelo suggests that investors compare price\/earnings ratios -LRB- the price of a share of stock divided by a company 's per-share earnings for a 12-month period -RRB- with projected growth rates . 
Mr. Markese cautions that investors should n't slavishly follow any specific price\/earnings sell trigger . 
`` If you say sell anytime a company 's price\/earnings ratio exceeds 15 , that knocks out all your growth stocks , '' he says . 
EXAMINE WHAT HAS CHANGED . 
Tom Schlesinger , market analyst at A.G. Edwards & Sons Inc. , says investors should consider selling if there has been a fundamental change in a company since they bought its stock . 
Say you purchased a stock because of a new product that was in the works . 
Now , because of various difficulties , the product has been scrapped . 
Similarly , he says , suppose you were attracted to a company because of expectations that sales would hit $ 200 million by 1990 . 
This magazine and book publisher said three men were elected directors , increasing the board to 10 . 
BankAmerica spokesmen said preliminary reports indicate the company was n't materially affected by the Tuesday earthquake . 
For the first time in nearly two years , BankAmerica results failed to improve in consecutive quarters , but the decline from the second quarter was attributable to special factors . 
The company cited higher tax credits in the second quarter , totaling $ 63 million , compared with $ 28 million in the third quarter . 
Moreover , BankAmerica continued to build its reserve against troubled foreign loans by boosting its loan-loss provision to $ 170 million , about the same as the previous quarter but well above the $ 100 million in the year-earlier quarter . 
By any measure , third-quarter earnings were still robust , equivalent to a 0.92 % return on assets even excluding tax credits . 
`` They -LCB- BankAmerica -RCB- continue to show good performance , '' said Donald K. Crowley , an analyst with Keefe , Bruyette & Woods Inc. , San Francisco . 
Shareholder equity improved to 4.68 % from 4.23 % in the previous quarter . 
The high margin partly stems from continued strong growth in high-yielding consumer loans , which jumped 31 % to $ 17.47 billion from a year earlier , and residential mortgages , which rose 25 % to $ 12 billion . 
So IBM will be announcing more than 50 products that will be aimed at letting even the dumbest machine tool talk to the smartest mainframe , or anything in between . 
He added , though , that `` a lot of this is intentions ... . 
The announcements also should help IBM go on the offensive against Digital Equipment Corp. on the plant floor . 
While IBM has traditionally dominated the market for computers on the business side of manufacturing operations and has done well in the market for design tools , Digital has dominated computerized manufacturing . 
Both can be expected to go after the market aggressively 
IBM , which Gartner Group said generates 22 % of its revenue in this market , should be able to take advantage of its loyal following among buyers of equipment . 
They could also check through the orders on file to find a customer that was willing to accept a lower grade of polyethylene . 
The move to halt imports -- announced 29 years and 11 months to the day after Henry Ford II declared that the Edsel division and its gawky car would be scrapped -- kills the four-year-old Merkur brand in the U.S. market . 
The No. 2 auto maker 's new Thunderbird and Mercury Cougar models have n't met sales expectations in the year since they were introduced , and Ford 's trucks are losing ground to their GM rivals . 
The demise of Merkur -LRB- pronounced mare-COOR -RRB- comes after a September in which 670 Merkur dealers managed to sell only 93 Scorpios . 
Merkur is n't the only European luxury brand having problems in the U.S. . 
The Japanese assault on the luxury market is rapidly overshadowing such European makes as Audi and Saab , which at least have clear brand images . 
The first Merkur , the XR4Ti , went on sale in early 1985 . 
It was downhill from there , however . 
One major factor was the decline of the dollar against the mark , which began less than a year after Merkur 's 1985 launch . 
The Merkur cars also suffered from spotty quality , some dealers say . 
Apparently , however , the improvement came too late . 
Ford said then it would keep the Scorpio . 
Canadian Pacific put its 56 % stake in Soo Line up for sale last year but could n't find any takers . 
Canadian Pacific , which has interests in transportation , telecommunications , forest products , energy and real estate , finally took its majority block off the market this spring . 
Separately , for the first nine months , Soo Line reported a loss of $ 398,000 , or four cents a share , compared with net income of $ 12.5 million , or $ 1.32 a share , a year earlier . 
Revenue fell 5.8 % to $ 407.9 million from $ 433.2 million . 
Golden Nugget Inc. reported a third-quarter net loss of $ 13.1 million , or 76 cents a share , based on 17.2 million common shares and dilutive equivalents outstanding . 
Results for the latest quarter include nonoperating items of $ 23.9 million , versus $ 8.4 million a year earlier . 
For the nine months , Golden Nugget reported a net loss of $ 11.4 million , or 69 cents a share , based on 16.6 million common and dilutive equivalents outstanding . 
The year earlier , the company had a net loss of $ 4.3 million , or 20 cents a share , based on 21 million common shares and dilutive equivalents outstanding . 
Separately , the casino operator said its board approved a plan to buy-back as many as three million common shares from time to time , either in the open market or through private transactions . 
Mr. Franco , 47 years old , said in a telephone interview that he has been considering and discussing a number of possible business ventures , but that `` nothing is at a mature stage . '' 
Mr. Ruby , 39 , said that he had `` an amicable parting '' with Capital Holding and that he has `` a number of ventures in the financial-services area '' under consideration . 
Pencil pushers chew and put the plastic models behind their ears just like traditional pencils made of glued strips of California incense cedar filled with ceramic lead . 
It takes five steps to make standard pencils , just one for the plastic type . 
Eagle 's plastic type sharpens and looks like a wooden pencil . 
Eagle , now called Eagle-Berol , remains a leading company among the 10 in the U.S. that produced about 2.3 billion pencils last year , according to the Pencil Makers Association . 
For the nine months , Los Angeles-based H.F. Ahmanson had profit of $ 128.1 million , or $ 1.29 a share , a 4.6 % decline from earnings of $ 134.2 million in the year-ago nine months . 
But a reduction in one-time gains on the sale of various assets and an increase in the company 's provision for loan losses held down the earnings gain , the company said . 
Net income rose to a record $ 155.3 million , or 83 cents a share , from $ 134.8 million , or 72 cents a share . 
Analysts said the results were as expected , but several added that the earnings masked underlying weaknesses in several businesses . 
Third-quarter sales of U.S. credit services were `` disappointingly below sales '' of a year earlier , Dun & Bradstreet said . 
As previously reported , those sales have been declining this year in the wake of allegations that the company engaged in unfair sales practices that encouraged customers to overpurchase services . 
The company has denied the allegations but has negotiated a proposed $ 18 million settlement of related lawsuits . 
Analysts predict the sales impact will linger . 
Dun & Bradstreet noted that price competition in its Nielsen Marketing Research , Nielsen Clearing House and Donnelley Marketing businesses also restrained revenue growth . 
For the nine months , net income rose 19 % to $ 449 million , or $ 2.40 a share , from $ 375.9 million , or $ 2.01 a share , a year earlier . 
The new equipment , which will produce steel sheet with more uniform thickness and flatness , is likely to cost more than $ 20 million , the company said . 
I was in my favorite watering hole , waiting for the game to start . 
That 's usually how long it takes for the temblors to pass . 
Endless seconds wondering if those huge windows would buckle and shower us with glass . 
My younger daughter and I are fine . 
This building shook like hell and it kept getting stronger . 
Except for the gas tank at Hustead 's Towing Service exploding and burning in downtown Berkeley , things here are quite peaceful . 
Areas that are made of ` fill ' liquefy . 
A woman in a three-story apartment was able to walk out the window of the third floor onto street level after the quake . 
I rode it out on the second floor of Leo 's at 55th and Telegraph in Oakland . 
I heard parts of the building above my head cracking . 
I could n't decide if I should come home to Marin , because my house is on stilts . 
I have felt many aftershocks . 
My back is still in knots and my hands are still shaking . 
Books and software everywhere . 
Did n't feel a thing , but noticed some strange bird behavior . 
I just felt another aftershock a few seconds ago . 
Downtown Bolinas seems to be the part of town that 's worst off . 
I was in Stinson Beach when the quake rolled through town . 
Then as things got rougher , we ran for the door and spent the next few minutes outside watching the brick sidewalk under our feet oozing up and down , and the flowers waving in an eerie rhythm . 
Then I noticed the car was bouncing up and down as if someone were jumping on it . 
When I realized it was over , I went and stood out in front of the house , waiting and praying for Merrill to come home , shivering as if it were 20 below zero until he got there . 
Never in my life have I been so frightened . 
I was just sitting down to meet with some new therapy clients , a couple , and the building started shaking like crazy . 
Judy and I were in our back yard when the lawn started rolling like ocean waves . 
We ran into the house to get Mame , but the next tremor threw me in the air and bounced me as I tried to get to my feet . 
Books and tapes all over my room . 
I guess we 're all living very tentatively here , waiting for the expected but dreaded aftershock . 
Flesh goes to total alert for flight or fight . 
I agreed . 
It is . 
Fueling the growth , among other things , were higher-than-expected prices for certain building products . 
One reason : efforts to protect the spotted owl led to restrictions on logging in the Pacific Northwest , constricting supply and forcing prices up . 
For the nine months , Georgia-Pacific 's earnings increased 49 % to $ 504 million , or $ 5.58 a share , from $ 338 million , or $ 3.41 a share . 
The 23-5 vote clears the way for consideration on the House floor next week or the week after . 
On Monday , a letter from Mr. Skinner 's deputy , Elaine Chao , said the administration opposed the legislation `` in its present form . '' 
The stepped-up administration warnings annoyed some lawmakers , especially senior Republicans who supported the bill because they thought the Transportation Department favored it . 
Under the committee bill , the Transportation secretary would have 30 days , and an additional 20 days if needed , to review any proposed purchase of 15 % or more of a major U.S. airline 's voting stock . 
Although the legislation would apply to any acquisition of a major airline , it is aimed at transactions financed by large amounts of debt . 
`` It became apparent in hearings that there ought to be regulation of leveraged buy-outs of some sort , '' Rep. James Oberstar -LRB- D. , Minn. -RRB- , chairman of the House Aviation Subcommittee , said during the panel 's deliberations . 
In London , the Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100-share index jumped 34.6 points to close at its intraday high of 2170.1 . 
The index was under pressure for most of the morning over concerns that the effects of Tuesday night 's major earthquake in the San Francisco area would undermine the U.S. market . 
U.K. composite , or non-life , insurers , which some equity analysts said might be heavily hit by the earthquake disaster , helped support the London market by showing only narrow losses in early trading . 
Life insurers fared similarly , with Legal & General advancing 3 to 344 , although Prudential fell 2 to 184 1\/2 . 
Most banking issues retreated after a sector downgrade by Warburg Securities , although National Westminister showed strength on positive comments from brokerage firms about its long-term prospects . 
B.A.T Industries fell in early dealings but recovered to finish at 754 , up 5 . 
Dealers said the market was nervous ahead of a special B.A.T holders ' meeting today . 
Merchant banker Morgan Grenfell climbed 14 to 406 on renewed takeover speculation . 
S.G. Warburg , also mentioned in the rumor mill , jumped 14 at to 414 . 
Tokyo 's Nikkei index of 225 issues rose 111.48 points , or 0.32 % , to 35107.56 . 
Volume was estimated at 800 million shares , compared with 678 million Tuesday . 
Declining issues outnumbered advancers 505-455 , with 172 unchanged . 
Institutions , meanwhile , stepped back to the sidelines as the direction of U.S. interest rates remained unclear . 
Traders and analysts said they did n't see any effect on Tokyo stocks from the California earthquake . 
Buying was scattered across a wide range of issues , making the session fairly characterless , traders said . 
An outstanding issue in yesterday 's session was Mitsubishi Rayon , which surged 95 to 905 yen -LRB- $ 6.34 -RRB- a share . 
Some laggard food issues attracted bargain-hunters , traders said . 
Kirin Brewery was up 100 at 2,000 , and Ajinomoto gained 70 to 2,840 . 
Shares closed lower in other major Asian and Pacific markets , including Sydney , Hong Kong , Singapore , Taipei , Wellington , Seoul and Manila . 
Elsewhere , prices surged for a second day in Frankfurt , closed higher in Zurich , Stockholm and Amsterdam and were broadly lower in Milan , Paris and Brussels . 
In Brussels , it was the first trading day for most major shares since stocks tumbled on Wall Street Friday . 
Work began on homes and apartments at an annual rate of 1,263,000 units last month , down 5.2 % from August , the department said . 
The numbers suggest that the housing industry is still suffering the effects of the Federal Reserve 's battle against inflation . 
The industry had shown signs of recovery this summer , after the central bank began to relax its clamp on credit , allowing interest rates to drop a bit after pushing them up for a year . 
Another reason for the weakness , he said , may be that mortgage rates have hit a plateau since they began edging down after a peak in March . 
`` Rates have n't really peeled off that much , '' Mr. Regalia said . 
The company said the improved performance from a year ago reflects higher commissions and revenue from marketmaking and trading for its own account . 
In the nine months , net fell 3 % to $ 106 million , or 98 cents a share , from $ 110 million , or $ 1.05 a share . 
American Home Products said sales and earnings for the third quarter and nine months were at record levels . 
Pfizer said third-quarter sales increased 4 % to $ 1.44 billion from $ 1.38 billion . 
Pfizer posted its largest gains in healthcare sales , up 3 % , and consumer products , up 23 % . 
In the health-care segment , pharmaceutical sales increased 4 % and sales of hospital products increased 1 % . 
In the period , the company completed the sale of its European cosmetics businesses , sold a majority interest in its Brazilian affiliate , and announced the reorganization of its over-the-counter drug businesses into a new unit , Schering-Plough Health Care Products . 
It is quite unfortunate that you failed so miserably in reporting the Hurricane Hugo disaster . 
Your Sept. 27 page-one article `` Charleston Lost Quite a Lot to Hugo , Especially Gentility '' leaves the impression that the storm was little more than an inconvenience . 
In centering on the disruption of a few proud local customs such as the historic homes tour and the damage to the antiquities , your reporter served to only perpetuate an outdated and stereotypically provincial view of this otherwise thriving port city . 
Depicting the people of a traumatized city reeling from a disaster of unprecedented proportions was at the very best ludicrous under the circumstances . 
President Carlos Salinas de Gortari used the army to oust La Quina , who reigned for 28 years over a graft-riddled empire that made state-run Petroleos Mexicanos , or Pemex , one of the world 's most inefficient oil companies . 
Mr. Guzman Cabrera 's new order has n't arrived without resistance . 
Brawls between union factions still erupt at Pemex installations . 
The 61-year-old Mr. Guzman Cabrera takes such criticisms in stride . 
`` This is n't a new kind of union leadership , it 's a new Mexico . 
Pemex , which produces 40 % of government revenue , desperately needs new investment . 
Since world oil prices collapsed in 1982 , the government has siphoned Pemex 's coffers to make payments on Mexico 's $ 97 billion foreign debt . 
Little money has been returned to upgrade Pemex 's aging facilities . 
While the government drains Pemex from above , the union has drained it from below . 
The declines in investment and efficiency explain in part why Mexico has been importing gasoline this year . 
Though he also long benefited from the system built by La Quina , Mr. Guzman Cabrera says union perks had simply gotten out of hand . 
The union also ceded the 2 % commission it had received on all Pemex maintenance contracts . 
The new contract also eliminates the $ 15 monthly coupon , good only at union-owned grocery stores , that was part of the salary of every worker , from roughneck to chief executive . 
Also , because of its reduced capital budget , Pemex has phased out about 50,000 transitory construction workers , reducing the work force to about 140,000 , the union leader says . 
But Pemex managers are the ones most thrilled by the contract . 
But when the Pemex plant shut down for an annual overhaul , it would never give notice to its customers . 
`` The capriciousness would completely disrupt our operations , '' says Ernesto Vega Velasco , Desc 's finance director . 
Taming the union complements previous moves by the government to attract private investment in petrochemicals , which Mexico has been forced to import in large quantities in recent years . 
But Pemex 's courtship with private companies , and especially foreign ones , is controversial in a country where oil has been a symbol of national sovereignty since foreign oil holdings were nationalized in 1938 . 
But the new union leader makes no apologies for Pemex 's more outward-looking attitude . 
MORE EXECUTIVES and their spouses are seeking counseling as work and family pressures mount . 
More dual-career couples also are getting help , with men increasingly bringing their working wives for joint counseling . 
She urges client couples to begin a `` detoxification '' period , purging social and other nonproductive activities and setting time apart for themselves . 
HERE 'S ONE more explanation for why Japan is a tough industrial competitor 
In Japan , small suggestions are encouraged . 
Each new employee is expected to submit four daily in the first few months on the job . 
A Security magazine survey places the effect of takeovers and buy-outs among the industry 's 10 biggest challenges . 
Co-author Richard Hollinger cites what happened at one family-owned company absorbed by a foreign giant . 
But top management should watch for other tell-tale signs of employee misdeeds , like expense-account fudging and phone misuse . 
New management can take several steps to reduce dishonesty . 
But both see a common enemy 
The move , subject to a definitive agreement , is part of a trend by big-city banks that have been buying up credit-card portfolios to expand their business . 
First City said that because of increased competition in the credit-card business , it had decided it either had to expand its own holdings substantially or sell them . 
`` We think there 's a good prospect that competition is going to get pretty fierce in this market , '' said James E. Day , a First City vice president . 
First City , which recently purchased three small Texas banking concerns , said it would use the proceeds to pursue additional expansion opportunities in the Southwest and elsewhere . 
`` I think they 'll be able to move faster to make acquisitions in Texas , '' said Brent Erensel , an analyst with Donaldson , Lufkin & Jenrette . 
He added the airline is n't committed to going forward with any new bid , and has n't participated in bankers ' efforts to revive the transaction that collapsed . 
`` We 're in no way committed to a deal going through at all . 
We 're not rushing into anything . 
Under the original buy-out approved by the UAL board Sept. 14 , UAL 's pilots planned to put up $ 200 million in cash and make $ 200 million in annual cost concessions for a 75 % stake . 
The buy-out fell through when Citicorp and Chase Manhattan Corp. unexpectedly failed to obtain bank financing . 
The tenor of Mr. Stevens 's remarks seemed to indicate that British Air will take a more active , high-profile role in pursuing any new bid . 
Mr. Stevens said British Air has n't received any new buy-out proposals from the labor-management group , led by UAL Chairman Stephen Wolf , and has n't received any indication of when one might be forthcoming . 
Although British Air is waiting to see what the buy-out group comes up with , Mr. Stevens said a revised transaction with less debt leverage is likely to be more attractive to banks . 
Mr. Stevens said he expects the new price will be considerably lower , but declined to specify a figure . 
He added the original offer was `` a pretty full price , '' and that British Air 's contribution `` was quite a large chunk for us . '' 
`` If the -LCB- new -RCB- deal had us putting up less money but still having 15 % , that would be a point in our favor , '' he said . 
In the event that the buy-out group stalls in reviving its bid , the UAL board could remain under some pressure to seek another transaction , even without any legal obligation to do so . 
UAL 's management agreed to reduce the seniority of those pilots in exchange for the support of the United pilot union for the buy-out proposal . 
The 220 pilots involved in the suit are n't members of the union . 
`` Although it probably has reduced the level of expenditures for some purchasers , utilization management -- like most other cost containment strategies -- does n't appear to have altered the long-term rate of increase in health-care costs , '' the Institute of Medicine , an affiliate of the National Academy of Sciences , concluded after a two-year study . 
The report suggested that current review programs are too narrow . 
`` The unnecessary and inappropriate use of the hospital , and not the actual need for a particular procedure , has been the main focus , '' the panel said . 
`` As a general rule , prior-review programs have not made case-by-case assessments of the comparative costs of alternative treatments or sites of care . '' 
`` There 's pretty good evidence that utilization management has reduced inappropriate hospitalization , '' he said . But at the same time , spending on physician services and ambulatory care have mushroomed . 
Jerome Grossman , chairman of the panel , agrees that administrative costs of utilization management programs can be high . 
`` You have a whole staff standing ready '' to evaluate the appropriateness of recommended treatment , he said . 
Dr. Grossman , who also is president of New England Medical Center Hospitals in Boston , noted that the hospitals he runs deal with more than 100 utilization management firms and that many of them have different procedures and requirements . 
Mr. Gras said the joint venture represents considerable savings for both Renault and DAF , since both companies would in any case have had to renew their existing ranges of light goods vehicles . 
Both Renault and DAF will have world-wide marketing rights for the new range of vans and light trucks . 
DAF is 16%-owned by British Aerospace , with a further 6.5 % held by the Dutch state-owned chemical group NV DSM . 
First , its position in the government is anomalous . 
Second , the responsibilities of the Federal Reserve as guardian of the currency , which means as guardian of the stability of the price level , sometimes lead it to take measures that are unpopular . 
So the Federal Reserve is an attractive target for complaint by politicians . 
This leads to proposals for `` reform '' of the Fed , which have the common feature of making the Fed more responsive to the administration , to the Congress and to public opinion -- without , however , any assumption of additional responsibility by the politicians . 
But these proposals do not rest on a view of what the Fed 's problem is or , if they do , they rest on an incorrect view . 
They would not solve the problem 
The price level in the U.S. is now about 4 1\/4 times as high as it was 30 years ago . 
The enormous inflation over the past 30 years was largely due to monetary policy . 
2 . Even where the Fed did not share this view it felt the need to accommodate to it . 
The common proposals for reforming the Fed would only make the situation worse , if they had any effect at all . 
Putting the Secretary of the Treasury on the Board of Governors , one of the leading proposals today , is an example . 
The secretary is the world 's biggest borrower of money . 
Moreover , he is a political agent of a political president , who naturally gives extraordinary weight to the way the economy will perform before the next election , and less to its longer-run health . 
-LRB- True , a succession of Fed chairmen has given color to the notion that the Secretary of the Treasury belongs on the Fed . 
By their constant readiness to advise all and sundry about federal budgetary matters the chairmen have encouraged the belief that fiscal policy and monetary policy are ingredients of a common stew , in which case it is natural that the Fed and the Treasury , and probably also the Congress , should be jointly engaged in stirring the pot . 
The Fed 's problem is not that it is too independent , or too unpolitical . 
The Fed is responsive to , and can not help being responsive to , the more overtly political part of the government . 
Critics of the present arrangement are correct to say that it is undemocratic . 
What is undemocratic is the unwillingness of the more political parts of the government to take the responsibility for deciding the basic question of monetary policy , which is what priority should be given to stabilizing the price level . 
The greatest contribution Congress could make at this time would be to declare that stabilizing the price level is the primary responsibility of the Federal Reserve System . 
It is not the kind of thing that is likely to be enacted , however . 
But that is not the same as saying that the Federal Reserve has other objectives . 
The per-share loss was $ 5.32 . 
Strict new regulations seem certain to pass the state House in Pennsylvania next week , with easy approval by the Senate and by Democratic Gov. Bob Casey expected shortly thereafter . 
Indeed , abortion-rights activists still face their greatest tests . 
But the Pennsylvania measure also includes an `` informed consent '' provision that may become widely imitated by abortion foes who want to make women contemplating abortion as uncomfortable as possible with the procedure and with themselves . 
In Michigan , where the state Senate is expected to approve parental-consent legislation by the end of next week , Gov. Blanchard is the principal obstacle for anti-abortionists . 
The legislation failed by one vote to clear the House Rules Committee Tuesday , but anti-abortionists still may succeed in bringing the measure to the floor this fall . 
Abortion foes in Wisconsin , meanwhile , expect a parental-consent bill to be sent to the state assembly floor by early November and are hopeful of prevailing in both houses by next March . 
In Texas , abortion opponents want to pass parental-consent legislation along with a statewide ban on the use of public funds , personnel and facilities for abortion , and viability tests for fetuses 19 weeks and older . 
`` The prognosis is only fair , '' says Kathie Roberts , administrative director of the Texas Right to Life Committee . 
At the same time , abortion foes have developed a national legislative strategy , deciding to move on what Jacki Ragan , the National Right to Life Committee 's director of state organizational development , calls `` reasonable measures that an overwhelming mainstream majority of Americans support . '' 
Over the weekend , the National Abortion Rights Action League singled out eight politicians , including Pennsylvania 's Mr. Freind , as 1990 targets and held a Washington seminar designed to train its leaders in political techniques , including how to put the anti-abortionists on the defensive in state legislatures . 
This maker and marketer of cartridge tape systems said it completed the sale of 2.85 million shares of common priced at $ 10 a share in an initial public offering . 
More than $ 1.8 million is allocated for pensions and expenses for former presidents , and the budget for the official residence of Vice President Quayle is more than doubled , with $ 200,000 designated for improvements to the property . 
The large increase in Customs Service air-interdiction funds is also intended to counter smuggling , and the annual appropriations level has more than quadrupled in five years . 
Less noticed is a bit of legislative legerdemain by Houston Republicans on behalf of HEI Corp. of Texas to retroactively `` move '' a Missouri hospital from one county to the next to justify higher Medicare reimbursements . 
The program 's nonprofit sponsors received $ 900,000 in fiscal 1989 through an Extension Service grant , but Mr. Whitten has been adamant in insisting that the program be cut in 1990 . 
The British conglomerate , planning its own defensive restructuring to fight off a # 13.35 billion -LRB- $ 21.03 billion -RRB- takeover bid by Anglo-French financier Sir James Goldsmith , intends to press ahead with an extraordinary shareholder vote today to clear the way for its value-boosting measures . 
If anything , the gyrations in world stock markets -- and in B.A.T 's share price -- since last Friday 's sharp Wall Street sell-off have increased the likelihood of shareholder approval for the restructuring , analysts and several big institutional holders said . 
Investors in B.A.T have been on a roller coaster . 
But this week , B.A.T has been hit harder than other big U.K. stocks -- first by the market gyrations , then by Tuesday 's San Francisco earthquake , which could leave B.A.T 's Farmers Group Inc. insurance unit facing big claims . 
To fight off predators , B.A.T plans to spin off about $ 6 billion in assets , largely by selling such U.S. retailing units as Marshall Field and Saks and by floating its big paper and U.K. retailing business via share issues to existing holders . 
`` I think the restructuring will get the required support , '' said Michael Pacitti , an analyst at London stockbroker UBS Phillips & Drew . 
But B.A.T 's restructuring , which was never going to happen quickly , now will take longer because of the market upheaval . 
Company officials , holders and analysts who previously expected the disposals to be substantially complete by the end of next year 's first half now say the market gyrations could delay the actions well into the second half . 
`` We are n't forced sellers . 
People familiar with B.A.T say possible acquirers for the units include managers from both retailing chains , and General Cinema Corp. , which is interested in bidding for Saks . 
Other potential bidders for parts of B.A.T 's U.S. retail unit include Dillard Department Stores Inc. , May Department Stores Co. and Limited Inc . 
Though Sir James has said he intends to mount a new bid for B.A.T once approval from U.S. insurance regulators is received , jitters over prospects for junk-bond financing and U.S. leverage buy-outs are making investors more skeptical about Sir James 's prospects . 
On Farmers , Mr. Prideaux said it is too early to quantify the level of potential claims . 
Getting to and from the airport in coming weeks may be the problem , however . 
Tom Schumacher , executive vice president and general manager of the California Trucking Association in Sacremento , said his organization urged trucking firms to halt all deliveries into the Bay area yesterday , except for emergency-medical supplies . 
`` Some foodstuff shipments will probably resume Thursday , '' he said . 
`` Right now most of the roads into the Bay area are closed , but the list of closings changes about every 20 minutes . 
United Parcel Service , Greenwich , Conn. , said its operations in the San Francisco area have been reduced to 40 % of normal . 
But freight railroads reported that damage to their facilities was relatively minor , with Santa Fe Pacific Corp. 's rail unit the least affected by the quake . 
Union Pacific Corp. 's rail unit said that except for damage to shipping containers in its Oakland yard , its track , bridges and structures were unharmed . 
But service on the line is expected to resume by noon today . 
`` We had no serious damage on the railroad , '' said a Southern Pacific spokesman . 
Amtrak said it suspended train service into its Oakland station , which sustained `` heavy structural damage '' during the quake . 
The passenger railroad said it terminated some runs in Sacramento , relying on buses to ferry passengers to the Bay area . 
Rail-transit operations suffered little damage , according to Albert Engelken , deputy executive director of the American Public Transit Association in Washington . 
The Bay Area Rapid Transit `` withstood the earthquake perfectly , '' said Mr. Engelken , adding that the rail system was running a full fleet of 45 trains during the day to provide an alternative for highway travelers . 
`` The highway system is screwed up '' by the earthquake , Mr. Engelken said . 
Although air-traffic delays in San Francisco were significant yesterday , they did n't appear to spread to other airports . 
The earthquake shattered windows at San Francisco International 's air-traffic control tower and rained pieces of the ceiling down on controllers , three of whom suffered minor injuries . 
Terminals at San Francisco International also were damaged , but the tower itself was intact . 
While the airport was closed , flights were diverted to airports in Sacramento and Stockton , Calif. ; Reno and Las Vegas , Nev. ; and Los Angeles . 
United Airlines , the largest carrier at San Francisco , was operating only 50 % of its scheduled service in and out of the area because of damage to its terminal , which in turn was causing delays for travelers headed to the Bay area . 
In terms of diversions , Denver 's Stapleton International may have experienced the most far-flung : A United flight from Japan was rerouted there . 
A Japan Air Lines spokesman said its flights into and out of San Francisco were n't affected , but getting information about its operations was difficult . 
Its telecommunications headquarters in Burlingame , Calif. , had been knocked out since the quake . 
Whitbread already has been approached by `` about half a dozen '' companies interested in buying all or part of the spirits business , a spokesman said . 
Beefeater alone is worth as much as # 300 million , analysts said . 
But Whitbread has been squeezed by giant rivals amid widespread consolidation in the industry . 
For rival liquor companies , the Whitbread auction is a rare opportunity to acquire valuable brands . 
Among possible buyers , Grand Metropolitan PLC might find Beefeater a useful addition to its portfolio . 
Grand Met owns Bombay gin , the No. 3 imported gin in the 
Two other global liquor giants , Canada 's Seagram Co. and Britain 's Allied-Lyons PLC , also are possible buyers . 
Seagram 's gin is the world 's No. 2 gin brand , but the company does n't own any of the major gin brands imported in the U.S. . 
Allied-Lyons , while powerful in whiskey , does n't own any major white-spirit brands . 
`` We will certainly have to take a look at '' the Whitbread spirits business , an Allied-Lyons spokesman said . 
Smaller liquor companies , such as Brown-Forman Corp. and American Brands Inc. of the U.S. , also are likely to be interested . 
Whitbread 's wine , spirits and soft-drink operations had trading profit of # 35.4 million on sales of # 315.5 million in the year ended Feb. 25 . 
But analysts estimate their trading profit at # 30 million . 
Whitbread 's spirits auction occurs amid a parallel shakeup in the British beer industry . 
British brewers currently own thousands of pubs , which in turn sell only the breweries ' beer and soft drinks . 
Whitbread now intends to bolster its brewing interests , in an effort to grab a share of sales to free houses . 
In addition , Whitbread intends to focus on its newer hotel , liquor store and restaurant businesses in Europe and North America . 
In Britain , those interests include the Beefeater steakhouse chain and joint ownership with PepsiCo Inc. of the country 's Pizza Hut chain . 
Focusing on beer , restaurants and hotels means `` we can concentrate our skills and resources more effectively , '' Peter Jarvis , Whitbread 's managing director , said in a statement . 
At that time Sam Whitbread , the company 's chairman and a descendant of its 18th-century founder , will retire from executive duties . 
The paper producer reported that net income fell to $ 102.1 million , or $ 1.09 a share , from $ 122.4 million , or $ 1.29 a share , in the year-earlier period . 
On the morning of the long-planned announcement , International Business Machines Corp. is to introduce its own new mainframe . 
`` They 're deliberately trying to steal our thunder , '' a Digital executive complains . 
That does n't scare Digital , which has grown to be the world 's second-largest computer maker by poaching customers of IBM 's mid-range machines . 
Digital , based in Maynard , Mass. , hopes to stage a repeat performance in mainframes , and it has spent almost $ 1 billion developing the new technology . 
IBM appears more worried about Digital , which has a broad base of customers waiting for the new line , dubbed the VAX 9000 . 
The surge in competition is expected to stir new life into the huge mainframe market , where growth has slowed to single digits in recent years . 
Digital is promising a new approach . 
The challengers will have a big price advantage . 
Digital is expected to tag its new line from about $ 1.24 million to $ 4.4 million and up , depending on configuration . 
That 's about half the price of comparably equipped IBM mainframes . 
The heightened competition will hit IBM at a difficult time . 
The computer giant 's current mainframe line , which has sold well and has huge profit margins , is starting to show its age . 
Still , no one expects IBM 's rivals to deliver a knockout . 
IBM has a near-monopoly on mainframes , with an estimated 70 % share of the market . 
IBM has a near-monopoly on mainframes , with an estimated 70 % share of the market . IBM is five times the size of Digital -- and 40 times the size of Tandem -- and wields enormous market power . 
A key marketing target for Digital will be the large number of big customers who already own both Digital and IBM systems . 
One such company is Bankers Trust Co . 
Stanley Rose , a vice president , technological and strategic planning at Bankers Trust , says that despite Digital 's low prices , `` we are n't about to unplug our IBM mainframes for a DEC machine . 
Bankers Trust uses Digital 's VAX to run its huge money-transfer and capital markets accounts , juggling hundreds of billions of dollars each day , he says . 
As that system grows , larger computers may be needed . 
`` In the past , customers had to go to IBM when they outgrew the VAX . 
Now they do n't have to , '' he says . 
Analysts say Digital can expect this pent-up demand for the new VAX to fuel strong sales next year . 
Although Digital will announce a full family of mainframes next week , it is n't expected to begin shipping in volume until next year . 
Four more models , aimed squarely at IBM 's commercial customers , are expected to begin shipping in late June . 
Digital 's new line has been a long time coming . 
The company has long struggled to deliver a strong mainframe-class product , and made a costly decision in 1988 to halt development of an interim product meant to stem the revenue losses at the high end . 
IBM will face still more competition in coming months . 
Stocks rose slightly as trading activity slowed from the frenzied pace earlier this week . 
`` I 'm surprised we did n't see more volatility '' in stocks , said Raymond F. DeVoe Jr. , market strategist at Legg Mason Wood Walker . 
`` I think the problems in the junk-bond area are just beginning , and this will be very unsettling for companies that have issued junk bonds . 
However , many institutional investors are reacting to the stock market 's plunge as `` a great buying opportunity , '' said Charles I. Clough , chief investment strategist at Merrill Lynch Capital Markets . 
`` Things are beginning to settle down . 
Stock prices rose . 
New York Stock Exchange volume shrank to 166.9 million shares from 224.1 million Tuesday . 
The dollar dropped . 
AMR 's earnings decline comes a year after the parent company of American Airlines and the rest of the airline industry set profit records . 
Still , AMR 's stumble does n't bode well for the rest of the industry . 
In the third quarter , AMR said , net fell to $ 137 million , or $ 2.16 a share , from $ 150.3 million , or $ 2.50 a share . 
`` We think these trends will continue and will produce a very disappointing fourth quarter as well , '' he said . 
Tim Pettee , an analyst with Merrill Lynch & Co. , said : `` The business turned faster than expected . 
For the nine months , AMR 's net rose 15 % to $ 415.9 million , or $ 6.59 a share , from $ 360.1 million , or $ 5.99 a share . 
AMR 's board , in a statement after a regular meeting yesterday , said : `` Ill-considered and reckless acquisition proposals adversely affect employee , financial and business relationships and are contrary to the best interests of AMR shareholders ... . 
This bill simply says that if you want to develop property on a barrier island you have to do so without taxpayer support . 
A Taxpayers Union study concluded the bill would save taxpayers up to $ 9.3 billion in barrier-island subsidies over 20 years . 
Poverty remains far more widespread among blacks than other Americans . 
But two-thirds of all poor Americans were white . 
More than half of poor families were headed by women living without men , the bureau said . 
The poverty rate of children under 18 years old dropped last year to 19.7 % from 20.5 % in 1987 , but remained far higher than a decade ago . 
The rate among the elderly -- 12 % in 1988 -- was n't significantly lower than the year before . 
-- Some 17.2 % of all money income received by families in 1988 went to the wealthiest 5 % of all families , up from 16.9 % in 1987 . 
-- The top fifth of all families got 44 % of the income , up from 41.5 % a decade earlier . 
-- Confirming other government data showing that wages are n't keeping pace with inflation , earnings of year-round , full-time male workers fell 1.3 % in 1988 after adjusting for higher prices , the first such drop since 1982 . 
-- Median household income -- which includes both those living in families and those who are n't -- rose 0.3 % last year to $ 27,225 after inflation . 
Fueling a controversy that has been simmering for years , the Census Bureau also said its figures would look far rosier if it recalculated the poverty threshold using an improved consumer-price measure adopted in 1983 . 
Critics on the left and right have been calling for all sorts of revisions to the measure for years . 
The $ 1.4 billion robot spacecraft faces a six-year journey to explore Jupiter and its 16 known moons . 
If all goes well , it will parachute a probe into the dense Jovian atmosphere in July 1995 to pick up detailed data about gases that may be similar to the material from which the solar system was formed 4.6 billion years ago . 
Investigating Jupiter in detail may provide clues to what astronomer Tobias Owen calls the `` cosmic paradox '' of life : Jupiter and other bodies in the outer solar system are rich in elements such as hydrogen that are essential for life on Earth , but these planets are lifeless ; Earth , on the other hand , has a diminished store of such material but is rich in life . 
In 1979 , two Voyager spacecraft sent back stunning photos of Jovian moons Io and Europa that showed them to be among the most intriguing bodies in the solar system . 
The Galileo project started in 1977 , and a number of project veterans were on hand to watch the launch . 
An ebullient Mr. Johnson , wearing a NASA baseball cap and carrying a camera and binoculars , called the launch `` fantastic . '' 
Benny Chin , manager of the Galileo probe , compared it to watching a child leave home . 
Having argued that Galileo 's plutonium power source could have released lethal doses of radiation if the shuttle exploded yesterday , they were n't quieted by yesterday 's successful launch . 
Galileo will skim past Earth in 1990 and 1992 , collecting energy from the planet 's gravitational field to gain momentum for its trip to Jupiter . 
One protest did get past NASA 's guard , though 
The successful launch continues a remarkable recovery in the U.S. space-science program . 
An unmanned spacecraft , Magellan , already is heading to Venus and is due to begin mapping the planet next August . 
Next month , NASA plans to launch a satellite to study cosmic rays dating from the birth of the universe . 
In December , the shuttle Columbia will try to retrieve a satellite that 's been in orbit for nearly five years measuring the deleterious effects of space on materials and instruments . 
Not all of NASA 's space-science work will be so auspicious , though . 
Around Thanksgiving , the Solar Max satellite , which NASA repaired in orbit in 1984 , will tumble back into the Earth 's atmosphere . 
The Associated Press 's earthquake coverage drew attention to a phenomenon that deserves some thought by public officials and other policy makers . 
Private relief agencies , such as the Salvation Army and Red Cross , mobilized almost instantly to help people , while the Washington bureaucracy `` took hours getting into gear . '' 
One news show we saw yesterday even displayed 25 federal officials meeting around a table . 
We recall that the mayor of Charleston complained bitterly about the federal bureaucracy 's response to Hurricane Hugo . 
But lawyers said Mr. Steinberg probably faced much more potential liability because , when he sued Disney during his takeover battle , he filed on behalf of all shareholders . 
When Disney offered to pay Mr. Steinberg a premium for his shares , the New York investor did n't demand the company also pay a premium to other shareholders . 
The Senate will deliberate behind closed doors today and is scheduled to vote on the impeachment tomorrow . 
The appeals court disagreed on both counts . 
Avondale was notified by Louisiana officials in 1986 that it was potentially responsible for a cleanup at an oil-recycling plant . 
Avondale asked Travelers to defend it in the state proceeding , but the insurer did n't respond . 
William Greaney , an attorney for the Chemical Manufacturers Association , said that while other appeals courts have ruled differently on whether cleanup costs are damages , the influence of the appeals court in New York `` will make insurers sit up and listen . '' 
Nearly 36 % ranked housing problems as their most serious unmet legal need . 
Mr. Mastro has been with the New York U.S. attorney 's office for nearly five years . 
Under the proposed agreement involving the world 's tallest building , Chicago-based Sears would receive about half the money through conventional mortgage financing and the other half as a convertible mortgage . 
In a convertible mortgage , the investor lends the building owner a certain amount in return for the option to convert its interest into equity , usually less than 50 % , at the end of the loan term . 
During the term , the lender can either receive a percentage of cash flow , a percentage of the building 's appreciation or a fixed return . 
Tandy Corp. said it signed a definitive agreement to acquire two units of Datatronic AB of Stockholm for cash . 
Wall Street is seething over the rules , which would curtail the tax deductibility of debt used in most LBOs . 
The House version of the legislation would kill that deduction , and label any such debt as equity , which is n't deductible . 
`` You see these in just about every LBO , '' said Robert Willens , senior vice president in charge of tax issues at Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. in New York . 
Typically , Mr. Willens estimates , this type of debt makes up 15 % to 20 % of the financing for LBOs . 
But that rule is being virtually overlooked by Wall Street , which is concentrating on coping with the deduction issue . 
Several Wall Street officials say the proposed legislation already is having an impact . 
Moreover , one investment banker , who requested anonymity , said his firm did n't raise the ante for a target company earlier this month after a stronger bid emerged from a public company that was n't concerned about the financing provision . 
One possible solution for Wall Street is to increase the equity part of the transaction -- that is , give lenders a bigger stake in the surviving company rather than just interest payments . 
That would force the buy-out firm and the target company 's management to reduce their level of ownership . 
Another solution , said a tax lawyer who requested anonymity , is for firms to use convertible bonds that sell at a discount . 
Since they have a lower interest rate , they would n't fall under the junk-bond category that would lose its deductibility . 
The House version of the bill would make debt non-deductible if it pays five percentage points above Treasury notes , has at least a five-year maturity and does n't pay interest for at least one year out of the first five . The bill would then declare that the debt is equity and therefore is n't deductible . 
The Senate estimates that its version of the provision would yield $ 17 million the first year and a total of $ 409 million over five years . 
Even if Wall Street finds ways around the new rules , a Senate aide contends LBOs will become somewhat more difficult . 
`` There 's no question it will make LBOs more expensive , '' he said . 
The firm said that losers outnumbered gainers by more than three to one among the 122 funds it tracks . 
President Bush signed a disaster declaration covering seven Northern California counties . 
In addition , an unusually wide array of federal agencies moved to provide specialized assistance . 
But the pool of federal emergency-relief funds already is running low because of the heavy costs of cleaning up Hurricane Hugo , and Congress will be under pressure to allocate more money quickly . 
Now , though , enormous costs for earthquake relief will pile on top of outstanding costs for hurricane relief . 
`` That obviously means that we wo n't have enough for all of the emergencies that are now facing us , and we will have to consider appropriate requests for follow-on funding , '' Mr. Fitzwater said . 
In Congress , lawmakers already are looking for ways to add relief funds . 
Money could be added to a pending spending bill covering the Federal Emergency Management Agency , which coordinates federal disaster relief . 
But it is n't just Washington 's relief dollars that are spread thin ; its relief manpower also is stretched . 
FEMA still has special disaster centers open to handle the aftermath of Hugo , and spokesman Russell Clanahan acknowledged that `` we 're pretty thin . '' 
To further complicate relief efforts , the privately funded American Red Cross also finds itself strapped for funds after its big Hugo operation . 
`` It 's been a bad month money-wise and every other way , '' said Sally Stewart , a spokeswoman for the Red Cross . 
`` It just makes it a little rough when you have to worry about the budget . '' 
The Red Cross has opened 30 shelters in the Bay area , serving 5,000 people . 
Still , some aid is moving westward from Washington almost immediately . 
HUD officials said they will make available as many as 100 Bay area houses that are under HUD loans but now are vacant after the houses have been inspected to ensure they are sound . 
Another federal agency not normally associated with disaster relief -- the Internal Revenue Service -- moved quickly as well . 
One advantage that federal officials have in handling earthquake relief is the large number of military facilities in the San Francisco Bay area , facilities that provide a ready base of supplies and workers . 
By yesterday afternoon , Air Force transport planes began moving additional rescue and medical supplies , physicians , communications equipment and FEMA personnel to California . 
Keith Mulrooney , special assistant to Federal Highway Administrator Thomas Larson , also said that after the 1971 San Fernando earthquake in Southern California , the state set tougher standards for bridges , and with federal aid , began a program to retrofit highways and bridges for earthquake hazards . 
The harvest arrives in plenty after last year 's drought-ravaged effort 
The harvest arrives in plenty after last year 's drought-ravaged effort : The government estimates corn output at 7.45 billion bushels , up 51 % from last fall . 
But do n't expect too much in the way of price breaks soon at the supermarket . 
Economists expect consumer food prices to jump 5.5 % this year to the highest level since 1980 and up from last year 's 4.1 % rise . 
Beef prices , hovering near records since the drought , could drop in earnest this winter if ranchers expand herds . 
Food companies probably wo n't cut their prices much , blaming other costs . 
Stokely says stores revive specials like three cans of peas for 99 cents . 
Costly infertility problems and procedures proliferate as aging baby boomers and others decide to have children -- now . 
The authors , from Boston 's Beth Israel Hospital , say that 84 % of the 50 births they followed occurred after only two in vitro cycles . 
It adds that births were `` extremely unlikely '' after the fourth cycle and concludes couples who do n't achieve a pregnancy after four to six procedures should be advised that success is unlikely . 
Some couples continue to try . 
MARKET MOVES , these managers do n't . 
Companies get more political clout plus a possible tax-deductible charitable donation -- so far no word from the IRS on deductibility . 
But the utility may not continue next year . 
Two election commission members opposed the matching plans . 
Scott E. Thomas says the plans give employees `` a bonus in the form of charitable donations made from an employer 's treasury '' in exchange for the political donation . 
And while it 's too soon to tell how sales will fare in the important 1989 Christmas season , some companies take steps to ease the usual 11th-hour crush . 
Spiegel , which also owns Eddie Bauer and Honeybee , says that since 1987 , sales have doubled during the week before Christmas . 
An L.L. Bean spokeswoman notes : `` People are just used to living in a last-minute society . '' 
L.L. Bean hires about 2,700 workers for the season rush , about 300 more than last year 
Yuba City , Calif. , meanwhile , ranked dead last among 329 metro areas . 
Pittsburgh figures it will be dethroned but plans to accept its ouster graciously . 
`` We 're encouraging a graceful transition , '' says Mary Kay Poppenberg , the organization 's president . 
`` Our attitude is that -LRB- the ranking -RRB- is like Miss America . 
Tell that to Atlanta , which Pittsburgh replaced as the most-livable city in 1985 . 
Many Atlantans thought Pittsburgh was an unworthy heir . 
Not so . 
`` I hate to dignify the publication by commenting on the obscene rating , '' Mayor Carolyn Robinson says , adding that cities have no way to rebut the book . 
`` It 's like fighting your way out of a fog . 
Los Angeles-based Northrop recorded an 8.2 % decline in sales as B-2 Stealth bomber research-and-development revenue continued to ebb and high costs on some other programs cut into profit . 
The aerospace concern earned $ 28.8 million , or 61 cents a share , a year earlier . 
At St. Louis-based General Dynamics , sales rose 10 % to $ 2.52 billion from $ 2.29 billion . 
In composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange , Northrop shares closed at $ 21.125 , off 25 cents . 
Northrop , which since early 1988 has declined to accept fixed-price contracts for research and development , said earnings were hurt by excessive costs on a number of such contracts won years ago . 
Northrop 's interest expense also soared to $ 35 million from $ 17 million a year ago . 
For the nine months , Northrop reported a net loss of $ 46.9 million , or $ 1 a share , compared with profit of $ 190.3 million , or $ 4.05 a share , in 1988 . 
Backlog at General Dynamics rose to $ 16.5 billion from $ 15.8 billion . 
Its interest expense surged to $ 21.5 million from $ 12.4 million . 
Lotus said net rose to $ 23 million , or 54 cents a share , on sales of $ 153.9 million . 
For the nine months , net of $ 38.5 million , or 92 cents a share , trailed the year earlier 's $ 49.9 million , or $ 1.08 a share . 
Sales rose to $ 406 million from $ 356 million the year earlier . 
Demand for the new version was enabling Lotus to raise prices with distributors and to hold market share against Microsoft and other competitors that tried to exploit the earlier delays in Release 3 's launch , Mr. Sherlund added . 
Analysts and corporate officials said they expected practically no long-term disruption in shipments from the Valley of either hardware or software goods . 
Intel Corp. , Advanced Micro Devices Inc. and National Semiconductor Corp. were all up and running yesterday , though many workers were forced to stay home because of damaged roadways 
`` These systems are more rugged than many people would believe , '' said Thomas Kurlak , who tracks the computer industry for Merrill Lynch Research . 
Other companies , including International Business Machines Corp. and Hewlett-Packard Co. , completely idled their operations because of Tuesday evening 's temblor , which registered 6.9 on the Richter scale . 
IBM , for instance , said it anticipates returning to a normal work schedule by the weekend at its San Jose plant , which puts out disk drives for the 3090 family of mainframes . 
Apple Computer added that it was being `` cautiously optimistic , '' despite not yet closely eyeballing all of its 50 buildings in the region . 
For example , a spokesman for Advanced Micro Devices said the Sunnyvale chip maker is worried about blackouts . 
Several factors apparently spared the Valley -- a sprawling suburban stretch from San Jose to Palo Alto -- from the kind of impact felt in San Francisco , an hour 's drive north . 
In addition , some microelectronics companies said they were prepared for tremulous conditions like Tuesday 's . 
Their machine tools are even bolted to the shop floor . 
That 's certainly good news for such companies as Compaq Computer Corp. , Houston , which has only a four-day supply of microprocessors from the Valley on hand because of a just-in-time manufacturing approach that limits the buildup of inventory . 
Computer makers were scrambling to help customers recover from the disaster . 
Meanwhile , several other major installations around the Valley -- America 's center of high-tech -- said they , too , fared as well as could be expected . 
Michael Maynard offered the world a faster way to break eggs . 
And the egg producers have done a pretty good job . 
They tried to put Mr. Maynard out of business by an act of Congress . 
Egg-industry lobbying helped persuade six states to ban Mr. Maynard 's automatic egg-breaking machine because of fears over salmonella . 
His company , Misa Manufacturing Inc. , was forced to seek protection from creditors under federal bankruptcy law in 1987 and has since been liquidated . 
Part of the answer lies in the nature of the industry . 
But when Mr. Maynard came forward with his machine in the early 1970s nobody else was offering them in the U.S. . 
Chickens carry this bacteria , which can cause upset stomachs and , in rare cases , death among people . 
Mr. Maynard claims this is a manageable problem . 
The Egg King carries written instructions to break only high-grade eggs that have been properly sanitized and , as an added precaution , to use the eggs only in products that will be cooked enough to kill bacteria . 
Opponents do n't buy such arguments . 
Leading the assault against the Egg King has been United Egg Producers . 
The Decatur , Ga. , trade group has issued a `` briefing book '' that claims the machine is `` a health hazard '' and that Mr. Maynard is trying `` to make a fast buck at the expense of the nation 's egg producers . '' 
An early battleground was the U.S. Department of Agriculture . 
Mr. Maynard initially won approval for his machine to be used at egg-processing facilities regulated by the USDA 's Food Safety Inspection Service . 
Unfortunately for Mr. Maynard , another branch of the USDA , the Agricultural Marketing Service , was in charge of eggs . 
So the producers went to Capitol Hill , where a congressman from Georgia introduced a measure to ban centrifugal egg-breaking machines . 
Mr. Maynard 's forces finally defeated the measure , though it took a vote on the floor of the House of Representatives to do it . 
Foiled in their effort to get a national ban , the egg producers turned their attention to the states . 
An antitrust suit that Mr. Maynard 's company filed in Los Angeles federal court against the United Egg Producers and others only added to the entrepreneur 's woes . 
The judge dismissed the suit and ordered Mr. Maynard 's company to pay over $ 100,000 in legal fees to the defendants ' lawyers . 
But , so far , the change of scenery has n't ended his string of bad breaks . 
As the tough , slinky lounge chanteuse in `` The Fabulous Baker Boys , '' Ms. Pfeiffer sings for herself , and more than passably well . 
Yet her intensity stops and starts with the music . 
Steve Kloves , the young writer and director -LRB- he is n't yet 30 -RRB- , has only one produced picture to his credit 
Steve Kloves , the young writer and director -LRB- he is n't yet 30 -RRB- , has only one produced picture to his credit ; he wrote the screenplay for `` Racing With the Moon , '' a lovely coming-of-age picture set in the '40s . 
However , Mr. Kloves directs his own material without sentimentality and at its own eccentric pace 
Much of the picture 's sensuality emerges from cinematographer Michael Ballhaus 's slyly seductive lens work . 
Though Ms. Pfeiffer has the flashy part -- she gets the best comic bits and to wear glamorous dresses and spiked heels the boys are pretty great , too . 
When the movie opens the Baker brothers are doing what they 've done for 15 years professionally , and twice as long as that for themselves 
Yet they do n't disparage their audiences by disparaging their act . 
Frank plans the program , takes care of business , and approaches the work like any other job . 
He 's even able to think of a job that takes him out of the house 300 nights a week as an ordinary job . 
He 's got a wife and two kids and a house in the suburbs 
Jeff Bridges is the younger brother , Jack , who fancies himself the rebellious artist 
Looking leaner than he has in a while , the younger Mr. Bridges 's Jack is sexy and cynical and a far sadder case than Frank , who 's managed to chisel his dreams to fit reality without feeling too cheated . 
Mr. Kloves has put together some priceless moments . 
These include Jennifer Tilly 's audition to be the Baker Boys ' girl singer . 
Ms. Tilly of the tweety-bird voice showed great comic promise during her stint as the mobster 's girlfriend on the television show , `` Hill Street Blues . '' 
Here she delivers , especially during her enthusiastically awful rendition of the `` Candy Man , '' which she sings while prancing around in a little cotton candy pink angora sweater that could n't be more perfect . 
If you 'd like to see the first time Michelle Pfeiffer sang on screen , and you have a lot of patience , take a look at `` Grease 2 . '' 
You 'll find her there . 
International Proteins shares did n't trade yesterday on the American Stock Exchange . 
Denis C. Smith was named to the new post of vice president of world-wide advanced materials operations for this chemicals concern . 
On Oct. 5 , the company estimated after-tax effects on the year 's earnings would be `` at least '' $ 1.3 million . 
Yesterday , the company said the negative after-tax effect on earnings for the year will be about $ 3.3 million . 
And if I think that some people -LCB- on HUD Secretary Jack Kemp 's -RCB- staff are off base in terms in which they 're evaluating certain things affecting my hometown , I have to tell you something -- I 'm not going to take it . 
In June , the Chicago Board of Trade said it suspended Capcom Financial . 
Formerly president and treasurer , Mr. Lang remains chief executive officer . 
`` We were expecting it , following the fall of the Dow Friday , '' said Brenda Malizia Negus , editor of Money Fund Report . 
Despite recent declines in interest rates , money funds continue to offer better yields than other comparable investments . 
Money-fund assets have been rising at an average rate of $ 1.6 billion a week in recent months , Ms. Negus said , reflecting the relatively high yields . 
Neal Litvack , marketing vice president for Fidelity Investments , said inflows Friday into Fidelity 's Spartan and Cash Reserves money-market funds were about twice normal levels , with about half coming from equity and junk-bond funds . 
`` People are n't necessarily running scared , '' Mr. Litvack said . 
The average maturity of the funds tracked by IBC\/Donoghue 's remained at 38 days for the third consecutive week . 
The average seven-day simple yield of the funds fell to 8.21 % this week from 8.26 % . 
Some funds are posting yields far higher than the average . 
Among the other high-yielding funds , Fidelity 's Spartan Fund had a seven-day compound yield of 9.33 % in the latest week . 
In an interview in New York , Mr. Breene , fresh from a Concorde flight from Paris where executives had worked through most of the night , outlined big plans for the new agency . 
`` Our goal is to develop quite rapidly to a top-10 position ... by the end of three years from now . 
It implies very dramatic growth , '' he said . 
He added that Eurocom and WCRS had agreed to provide a development fund of # 100 million for acquisitions . 
Cracking the top 10 within three years will be difficult at best . 
Della Femina had billings of just $ 660 million last year and ranked as the U.S. 's 24th-largest ad agency . 
The merged company that it now becomes part of will have billings of just more than $ 2.6 billion -- most of that in Europe -- bringing it to about 14th world-wide . 
The merged agency 's game plan to attract multinational packaged-goods advertisers may prove equally difficult . 
When WCRS created Della Femina McNamee out of the merger of three smaller agency units in 1988 , it said it did so in order to attract larger clients , especially packaged-goods companies . 
But major packaged-goods players of the world -- such as Procter & Gamble , Colgate-Palmolive and Unilever -- have steadfastly eluded the agency . 
Still , the restructuring could create one of the most powerful alliances between advertising and media-buying firms that Europe has seen . 
What 's more , both Eurocom and brothers Francis and Gilbert Gross , who founded Carat , will acquire 14.99 % stakes in WCRS Group , creating a powerful link between Eurocom and Carat . 
Mr. Della Femina says he plans to remain heavily involved in the creative product at the world-wide agency , serving as a sort of `` creative conscience . '' 
In addition to Carat , WCRS will hold onto its public relations , TV programming and other businesses . 
Carat 's Gross brothers invented the idea of large-scale buying of media space . 
While no agencies reported injuries to employees , the quake damaged the offices of J. Walter Thompson , Chiat\/Day\/Mojo and DDB Needham , among others , spokesmen for those agencies said . 
Staffers at Thompson , whose offices are in the ultramodern Embarcadero Center , watched pictures drop from the walls and then felt the skyscraper sway seven to eight feet , according to a spokeswoman . 
Late yesterday afternoon , DDB Needham executives were scrambling to figure out what to do about a new business presentation that had been scheduled for today , a spokesman said . 
DDB Needham 's office building may have sustained structural damage , the spokesman added . 
Chesebrough-Pond 's Inc. , Greenwich , Conn. , awarded its Faberge hair care accounts to J. Walter Thompson , New York . 
William Morrissey , 44 , was named executive vice president , world-wide director of McCann Direct , the direct marketing unit of Interpublic Group 's McCann-Erickson agency . 
One of the most remarkable features of the forced marches of the ethnic Turks out of Bulgaria over the past five months has been the lack of international attention . 
As if this were n't enough , the Senate Judiciary Committee is getting into the act . 
There can be no quibbling that the Armenians endured terrible suffering , but one has to wonder what possible good such a resolution will achieve . 
Turkey has been fighting its past for years , and thus far has been only partially successful . 
Part of the problem some Europeans have with Turkey seems to stem from its location -- Turkey is n't really part of Europe . 
Why , they wonder , should it belong to the EC ? 
Another anti-Turkish hook is the Islamic faith of the majority of the Turkish people 
Another anti-Turkish hook is the Islamic faith of the majority of the Turkish people : Turkey , we are told , is not a Christian nation 
Another anti-Turkish hook is the Islamic faith of the majority of the Turkish people : Turkey , we are told , is not a Christian nation ; its people simply wo n't fit in with the Western European Judeo-Christian tradition . 
No one has to accept the sins of the Ottoman Empire to reject that argument . 
Turkey in any event is long past it . 
The country has in recent years accepted more than 500,000 refugees from at least four bordering nations . 
Kurds , suffering what many people consider to be a current extermination campaign at the hands of Syria , Iran and Iraq have inundated eastern Turkey . 
The Turkish refugee tragedy and the ongoing crisis can not be ignored and shuttled off to that notorious dustbin of history that has become so convenient recently . 
But what the Senate Judiciary Committee has done in supporting the strongly worded Armenian resolution achieves no useful end 
Many in Washington say President Bush will have to raise taxes to pay for his war on drugs . 
From what we and the nation have been reading , the money is n't being spent very well . 
The single most important contribution the government could make now to help the poor is to get the specter of drugs out of their neighborhoods . 
This month , HUD Secretary Jack Kemp unveiled a series of proposed reforms to improve management at HUD . 
No doubt many of his ideas are worthy , but ultimately he is proposing to make fundamentally flawed programs work slightly more fairly and efficiently . 
Rep. Oakar , a Democrat from Cleveland , wants a $ 6.9 million grant so Cleveland can build an 18-story Rock and Roll Hall of Fame . 
She says it 'd create 600 jobs and bring Cleveland tourist revenue . 
Rep. Chalmers Wylie , an Ohio Republican , rallied to the cause 
Rep. Chalmers Wylie , an Ohio Republican , rallied to the cause : `` I think the gentlelady is making an important statement . 
We 're sure some theologian can explain the difference between what the Republican consultants have been doing with HUD and what these gentleladies and gentlemen want to do with HUD . 
For more than 50 years the federal government has tried various ways to provide housing for the poor and revive cities . 
Much of HUD 's spending actually is disguised welfare for developers or the middle class . 
Some HUD money actually does trickle down to the poor , and zeroing out housing middlemen would free up more money for public housing tenants to manage and even own their units . 
Rival gangs have turned cities into combat zones . 
Innocent bystanders often are the victims . 
A man in a wheelchair was gunned down in the crossfire of a Miami drug battle . 
Decent life in the inner cities wo n't be restored unless the government reclaims the streets from the drug gangs . 
It 's still unclear whether Secretary Kemp wants to completely overhaul the engine room at HUD or just tighten a few screws here and there . 
No doubt he believes the place can be salvaged . 
Having seen the hypocrisy with which Congress has addressed the HUD scandals , we disagree . 
Natural upheavals , and most particularly earthquakes , are not only horrible realities in and of themselves , but also symbols through which the state of a society can be construed . 
The larger parallel after the earthquake centered south of San Francisco is surely with the state of the U.S. economy . 
The eerie complacency of the Reagan-Bush era has produced Panglossian paeans about the present perfection of U.S. economic and social arrangements . 
Government statistics in fact show that the profit rate -- net pretax profits divided by capital stock -- peaked in 1965 at 17.2 % . 
This is indeed what the market decided . 
From the history of capitalism we can take it as a sound bet that if it takes only 43 cents to buy a dollar 's worth of a firm 's capital stock , an alert entrepreneur wo n't look the other way . 
But here is where the entrepreneur made a very risky bet , and where society was maybe foolish to look the other way . 
The profit rate is still low and the Q ratio was only 65 % in 1987 and 68.9 % in 1988 . 
But there were enough promoters announcing the end of history -LRB- in this case suspension of normal laws of economic gravity -RRB- for society to continue shielding its eyes . 
But this is not where the rewards of junk financing were found . 
Left-stream economists I associate with -- fellows in the Union of Radical Political Economists , most particularly Robert Pollin of the economics faculty at the University of California at Riverside -- were not hypnotized in the manner of their pliant colleagues . 
All along they have been noting the tremors and pointing out the underlying realities . 
The consequences of building empires with sand are showing up . 
Corporations need liquidity , in the form of borrowed funds . 
Without liquidity from the junk-bond market or cash flow from profits , they look to the government , which obediently assists the natural motions of the capitalist economy with charity in the form of cuts in the capital-gains tax rate or bailouts . 
Attacks on inflation come with another strategy of capital of a very traditional sort : an assault on wages . 
Mr. Fukuyama might want to consult some American workers on the subject of class and egalitarianism . 
These are long-term Richter readings on American capitalism . 
The whole structure is extremely shaky . 
But sophistication has its limits . 
The S&L bailout could cost $ 300 billion , computing interest on the government 's loans . 
These are real costs . 
Japanese newspaper Nihon Keizai Shimbun reported that the three giants plan to integrate their cargo computers and ground-cargo and air-cargo systems . 
The action follows Federal Express Corp. 's acquisition of Flying Tiger Line Inc. in August . 
Mr. Daly said such discussions are motivated by the competitive threat posed by Federal Express , United Parcel Service of America Inc. and other fast-growing air-freight companies . 
But he said JAL is talking to Lufthansa and Air France about some sort of cargo venture . 
In Frankfurt , a Lufthansa spokesman confirmed talks are under way , but declined to comment . 
A Lufthansa spokeswoman in Tokyo said the head of Lufthansa 's cargo operations had been in Toyko last week for talks with JAL . 
`` Nothing is defined or signed at this point , '' Mr. Daly said of the talks . 
If the three companies pool their air-freight businesses , their clout would be considerable . 
According to figures from the International Air Transport Association , they carried a combined 1.8 million tons of freight last year . 
Air France and Lufthansa last month concluded a far-reaching cooperation accord that includes air-freight activities . 
They plan to increase cooperation in freight ground-handling and create a world-wide computer system to process cargo . 
JAL also has signaled it is looking for toeholds in Europe before the end of 1992 . 
The decision , which affects millions of dollars of trading positions , was made late yesterday because the Pacific exchange 's options floor was shut down as a result of Tuesday 's earthquake . 
Officials at the four exchanges said well over 50 traders from the Pacific exchange were taking flights from San Francisco late yesterday to the American , New York and Philadelphia exchanges and to the CBOE , where they would continue making markets in the Pacific-listed options . 
The most pressing problem was the suspension of options trading . 
But professionals said throughout the day that the shutdown would n't be a cause for alarm even if it were to persist for several days . 
While the exchange 's equities floor in San Francisco remained open on a limited basis , orders were being routed and executed in Los Angeles . 
Workers could dial out , but they could n't receive telephone calls . 
Because the exchange 's computer was rerouting orders to the exchange 's trading operations in Los Angeles , `` business is as usual '' Mr. Vyas said . 
Meanwhile , the brokerage firms in San Francisco were trying to cope . 
Charles Daggs , chairman and chief executive officer of Sutro & Co. , said traders came to work at 5 a.m. PDT -- many on foot because of uncertain road and traffic conditions -- but learned that they would have to await a required inspection by the city in order to turn the power back on at the company 's two main facilities there . 
Also , most of the telecommunications equipment was out . 
The traders were executing municipal bond , mutual fund and other orders through a sister firm , Tucker Anthony Inc. , which is also owned by John Hancock Freedom Securities but is based in New York . 
`` We are having a regular day . 
Volume is down out of San Francisco , but not out of the 11 outlying offices , '' Mr. Daggs added . 
At Kidder , Peabody & Co. 's Sacramento branch , Manager Janet White received calls yesterday morning from workers in San Francisco who offered to work in Sacramento . 
At Quotron , the company 's National Call-In Center , which swung into action for the first time last month for Hurricane Hugo , assembled a tactical team at 5 a.m. yesterday to begin rerouting lines and restore service to brokers and traders . 
The move by IBM was n't exactly a surprise . 
In addition , despite IBM 's well-publicized recent problems , the computer giant still generates enormous amounts of cash . 
In the short term , the move is likely to have little effect . 
None of the problems is necessarily fatal , and they are n't all necessarily even related . 
There are also other factors at work that are outside IBM 's control , such as currency exchange rates . 
The strong dollar , which reduces the value of overseas earnings and revenue when they are translated into dollars , is expected to knock 80 to 85 cents off IBM 's per-share earnings for the full year . 
Still , investors will take some convincing before they get back into IBM 's stock in a big way . 
At the opening bell , investors quickly began singling out shares of companies expected to profit or suffer in some way from the California disaster , including insurers , construction-related companies , refiners and housing lenders . 
The most popular plays of the day were insurance companies such as General Re Corp. , which rose $ 2.75 to $ 86.50 , Nac Re Corp. , up $ 2 to $ 37.75 , American International Group Inc. , up $ 3.25 to $ 102.625 , and Cigna Corp. , up 87.5 cents to $ 62.50 . 
On the prospect for rebuilding northern California , investors bid up cement-makers Calmat Co. , up $ 2.75 to $ 28.75 , and Lone Star Industries Inc. , up $ 1.75 to $ 29.25 . 
Bridge and road builders had a field day , including Kasler Corp. , up $ 2.125 to $ 9.875 , Guy F. Atkinson Co. , up 87.5 to $ 61.875 , and Morrison Knudsen Corp. , which reported higher third-quarter earnings yesterday , up $ 2.25 to $ 44.125 . 
Timber stocks got a big boost . 
Georgia Pacific Corp. , up $ 1.25 to $ 58 , and Maxxam Inc. , up $ 3 to $ 43.75 , both reported strong profits . 
Other gainers were companies with one or more undamaged California refineries . 
Meanwhile , shares of some big housing lenders got hit , on the likelihood that the lenders ' collateral -- people 's homes -- suffered physical damage and perhaps a loss in value . 
Pacific Telesis Group lost 62.5 cents to $ 44.625 . 
Timothy Vincent , Petco chief executive officer , confirmed that Petco was withdrawing from the clearing business . 
The unprecedented transfer of accounts underscored the options industry 's desire not to have its credibility tarnished by potentially widespread trading defaults on Monday . 
If Colgate toothpaste offers a tempting money-saving coupon , she 'll cross Crest off her shopping list without a second thought . 
Money is n't the only thing that makes her dump once favorite brands . 
After she heard about the artery-clogging hazards of tropical oils in many cookies , she dropped Pepperidge Farm and started buying brands free of such oils . 
Clearly , people like Mrs. Lombardi are giving marketers fits . 
While brand loyalty is far from dead , marketing experts say it has eroded during the 1980s . 
Marketers themselves are partly to blame 
Marketers themselves are partly to blame : They 've increased spending for coupons and other short-term promotions at the expense of image-building advertising . 
`` Marketers have brought this on themselves with their heavy use '' of promotions , contends Joe Plummer , an executive vice president at the D'Arcy Masius Benton & Bowles ad agency . 
The Wall Street Journal 's `` American Way of Buying '' survey this year found that most consumers switch brands for many of the products they use . 
For the survey , Peter D. Hart Research Associates asked some 2,000 consumers , including Mrs. Lombardi , whether they usually buy one brand of a certain type of product or have no brand loyalty . 
Overall , 12 % of consumers are n't brand loyal for any of the 25 product categories . 
Overall , 12 % of consumers are n't brand loyal for any of the 25 product categories . About 47 % are loyal for one to five of the products . 
For such products as canned vegetables and athletic shoes , devotion to a single brand was quite low , with fewer than 30 % saying they usually buy the same brand . 
People tend to be most loyal to brands that have distinctive flavors , such as cigarettes and ketchup . 
Kathie Huff , a respondent in the Journal survey from Spokane , Wash. , says her husband is adamant about eating only Hunt 's ketchup . 
He simply ca n't stomach the taste of Heinz , she says . 
The 31-year-old homemaker adds , `` The only other thing I 'm really loyal to is my Virginia Slims cigarettes . 
Brand imagery plays a significant role in loyalty to such products as cigarettes , perfume and beer . 
Loyalty lags most for utilitarian products like trash bags and batteries . 
Underwear scored a middling 36 % in brand loyalty , but consumer researchers say that 's actually quite high for such a mundane product . 
`` In the past , you just wore Fruit of the Loom and did n't care , '' says Peter Kim , U.S. director of consumer behavior research for the J. Walter Thompson ad agency . 
He believes there 's opportunity for a smart gasoline marketer to create a strong brand image and more consumer loyalty . 
Brand loyalty was stronger among older consumers in the Journal survey . 
Nearly one-fourth of participants age 60 and older claim brand loyalty for more than 10 of the 25 products in the survey 
Higher-income people also tend to be more brand loyal these days , the Journal survey and other research studies indicate . 
Marketers speculate that more affluent people tend to lead more pressured lives and do n't have time to research the products they buy for the highest quality and most reasonable price . 
An established brand name is insurance that at least the product will be of acceptable quality , if not always the best value for the money . 
Meanwhile , `` the bottom end of the market is becoming less loyal , '' says Laurel Cutler , vice chairman of the ad agency FCB\/Leber Katz Partners . 
The biggest wild card in the brand loyalty game : How those hotly pursued but highly unpredictable baby boomers will behave as they move into middle age . 
Mr. Kim of J. Walter Thompson does n't think so . 
He believes baby boomers will continue to be selective in their brand loyalties . 
Rather , they tend to have a set of two or three favorites . 
Sometimes , they 'll choose Ragu spaghetti sauce 
Advertisers attribute this shared loyalty to the striking similarity among brands . 
If a more absorbent Pampers hits the market , you can be sure a new and improved Huggies wo n't be far behind . 
`` When there 's a clutter of brands , consumers simplify the complexity by telling themselves , ` All brands are the same so what difference does it make which I buy , ' '' says Karen Olshan , a senior vice president at BBDO . 
And perhaps with good reason . 
Consider , for example , what happened to Maxwell House coffee . 
`` Now , Philip Morris -LCB- Kraft General Foods ' parent company -RCB- is committed to the coffee business and to increased advertising for Maxwell House , '' says Dick Mayer , president of the General Foods USA division . 
Campbell Soup Co. , for one , has concluded that it makes good sense to focus more on its most loyal customers than on people who buy competitive brands . 
`` The probability of converting a non-user to your brand is about three in 1,000 , '' says Tony Adams , the company 's vice president for marketing research . 
`` The best odds are with your core franchise . 
So Campbell is talking to its `` brand enthusiasts , '' probing their psychological attachment to its soup . 
In one consumer focus group , a fan declared that , `` Campbell 's soup is like getting a hug from a friend . '' 
Getting a grip on the extent of the damages is proving a far more difficult task than what insurers faced after Hurricane Hugo ripped through the Caribbean and the Carolinas last month . 
But investors are betting that the financial and psychological impact of the earthquake , coming so soon after the hurricane , will help stem more than two years of intense price-cutting wars among business insurers . 
Aetna and other insurers are hiring engineers and architects to help them assess structural damage . 
Earthquake insurance is sold as a separate policy or a specific endorsement `` rider '' on a homeowner 's policy in California , because of the area 's vulnerability to earthquakes . 
State Farm said about 25 % of its policyholders in California have also purchased earthquake insurance . 
Roads and bridges in the Bay area appear to have suffered some of the most costly damage . 
Highways , such as the section of Interstate 880 that collapsed in Oakland , generally do n't have insurance coverage . 
For example , insurers may seek to limit their future exposure to catastrophes by increasing the amount of reinsurance they buy . 
`` We are saying this is the breaking point , this is the event that will change the psychology of the marketplace , '' said William Yankus , an analyst with Conning & Co. , a Hartford firm that specializes in the insurance industry . 
Still , a few individual companies , most likely smaller ones , could be devastated . 
`` I think there is a damned good chance someone is going to hit the skids on this , '' said Oppenheimer & Co. analyst Myron Picoult . 
The catastrophe losses sustained by insurers this year will probably be the worst on an inflation-adjusted basis since 1906 -- when another earthquake sparked the Great San Francisco Fire . 
Orin Kramer , an insurance consultant in New York , estimates that the 1906 San Francisco destruction , on an inflation-adjusted basis , included insured losses of $ 5.8 billion . 
Hunter Environmental Services Inc. said it reached a preliminary accord on the sale of its environmental consulting and services business for about $ 40 million and assumption of related debt . 
Sir John Egan told reporters at London 's Motorfair yesterday he `` would be disappointed if we could n't do -LCB- the deal -RCB- within a month . '' 
He said the tie-up would mean Jaguar could `` develop cars down range -LCB- in price -RCB- from where we are '' by offering access to GM 's high-volume parts production . 
But Ford , Jaguar 's biggest shareholder since lifting its stake to 10.4 % this week , is pressing harder for talks with Sir John . 
`` We 're getting to the point where we are going to have to meet '' with him , one Ford official said yesterday . 
Sir John has spurned Ford 's advances since the U.S. auto giant launched a surprise bid for as much as 15 % of Jaguar last month . 
Ford has signaled it might acquire a majority interest later . 
He did n't rule out negotiations with Ford , however . 
Sir John noted that GM , a longtime Jaguar supplier , agrees `` we should remain an independent company . '' 
Jaguar shares stood at 405 pence before Ford 's initial announcement , but the subsequent takeover frenzy has driven them up . 
Developing an executive-model range would mark a major departure for Britain 's leading luxury-car maker . 
A typical British executive car is mass produced and smaller than a luxury car . 
`` We have designs for such -LCB- executive -RCB- cars , but have never been able to develop them , '' Sir John said . 
An executive model would significantly boost Jaguar 's yearly output of 50,000 cars . 
A pact with GM may emerge in as little as two weeks , according to sources close to the talks . 
The deal would require approval by a majority of Jaguar shareholders . 
That may be difficult , the Jaguar chairman acknowledged , `` when you have somebody else breathing down your neck . 
Ford ca n't make a full-fledged bid for Jaguar until U.K. government restrictions expire . 
But with its 10.4 % stake , Ford can convene a special Jaguar shareholders ' meeting and urge them to drop the restrictions prematurely . 
Otherwise , Jaguar may have to tolerate the two U.S. auto giants each owning a 15 % stake for more than a year . 
`` It would be difficult to see how a car company can be owned by a collective , '' Sir John said . 
For the third quarter , total operating revenue grew 2.6 % to $ 3.55 billion from $ 3.46 billion . 
Total operating expenses increased 3.5 % to $ 2.78 billion from $ 2.69 billion . 
BellSouth Chairman and Chief Executive Officer John L. Clendenin said three factors accounted for the drop in third-quarter earnings . 
The refinancing of $ 481 million in long-term debt reduced net income by $ 22 million , or five cents a share , but in the long run will save more than $ 250 million in interest costs . 
For the third quarter , revenue increased 1.9 % to $ 2.55 billion from $ 2.51 billion . 
Operating expenses increased 2.6 % to $ 2.04 billion , including one-time pretax charges of $ 40 million for labor contract signing bonuses . 
The poll conducted by Peter D. Hart Research Associates interviewed 2,064 adults age 18 and older from June 15 to June 30 , 1989 . 
For each poll , the odds are 19 out of 20 that if pollsters had sought to survey every household in the U.S. using the same questionnaire , the findings would differ from these poll results by no more than 2 1\/2 percentage points in either direction . 
They accounted for a hefty 16 % of New York Stock Exchange volume Monday , the fourth busiest session ever . 
But the statistics released yesterday show the firms did nothing of the sort . 
In it , traders buy or sell stocks and offset those positions in stock-index futures contracts to profit from fleeting price discrepancies . 
The Big Board 's disclosure of program trading activity on these two days was unusual . 
Though it collects such data daily , its monthly reports on program trading usually come out about three weeks after each month ends . 
Though brokerage officials defended their use of program trading , one sign of what an issue it remains was that few executives would comment on the record . 
On Friday , the stock-index futures market was unhinged from the stock market when the Chicago Mercantile Exchange halted trading in Standard & Poor 's 500 futures contract -- a `` circuit breaker '' procedure instituted after the 1987 crash and implemented for the first time . 
Futures trading resumed a half-hour later , but the session ended shortly thereafter , leaving the stock market set up for more sell programs , traders said . 
But stunning volatility was produced in the process . 
The Dow Jones Industrial Average plunged a breathtaking 63.52 points in the first 40 minutes of trading Monday as stock-index arbitrage sell programs kicked in . 
At about 10:10 a.m. EDT , the market abruptly turned upward on stock-index arbitrage buy programs . 
For the nine months , Valley National posted a net loss of $ 136.4 million , or $ 6.90 a share . 
It had profit of $ 48.6 million , or $ 2.46 a share , in the 1988 period . 
`` The Arizona real estate market continues to be depressed , and there is still uncertainty as to when values will recover , '' James P. Simmons , chairman , said . 
In July , Moody 's downgraded $ 400 million of the company 's debt , saying the bank holding company had n't taken adequate write-offs against potential losses on real estate loans despite its second-quarter write-down . 
Bruce Hoyt , a banking analyst with Boettcher & Co. , a Denver brokerage firm , said Valley National `` is n't out of the woods yet . '' 
And until last Friday , it seemed those efforts were starting to pay off . 
`` Some of those folks were coming back , '' says Leslie Quick Jr. , chairman , of discount brokers Quick & Reilly Group Inc . 
Then came the frightening 190-point plunge in the Dow Jones Industrial Average and a new wave of stock-market volatility . 
`` It 's going to set things back for a period , because it reinforces the concern of volatility , '' says Jeffrey B. Lane , president of Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc . 
Brokers around the country say the reaction from individual investors this week has been almost eerie . 
`` The kinds of questions you had before have resurfaced , '' says Raymond A. `` Chip '' Mason , chairman of regional brokerage firm Legg Mason Inc. , Baltimore . 
All of this is bad news for the big brokerage firms such as Shearson and Merrill Lynch & Co. that have big `` retail , '' or individual-investor , businesses . But `` these wide swings scare them to death . '' 
But those dollars have been going into such `` safe '' products as money market funds , which do n't generate much in the way of commissions for the brokerage firms . 
In 1987 , an average 19.7 % of Big Board volume was retail business , with the monthly level never more than 21.4 % . 
Joseph Grano , president of retail sales and marketing at PaineWebber Group Inc. , still thinks that individual investors will eventually go back into the stock market . 
Investors will develop `` thicker skins , '' and their confidence will return , he says . 
Meanwhile , PaineWebber remains among the leaders in efforts to simply persuade investors to keep giving Wall Street their money . 
`` It 's more of an important issue to keep control of those assets , rather than push the investor to move into -LRB- specific -RRB- products such as equities , '' Mr. Grano says . 
It could be a long wait , say some industry observers . 
`` Some investors will tiptoe back in , '' says Richard Ross , a market research director for Elrick & Lavidge in Chicago . 
Mr. Ross , who has been studying retail investors ' perception of risks in the brokerage industry , said a market plunge like Friday 's `` shatters investors ' confidence in their ability to make any judgments on the market . '' 
The notes are rated MIG-1 by Moody 's Investors Service Inc . 
Subsequent margins set by agreement between NatWest and Merrill . 
The first part , consisting of $ 2.5 million of 11 1\/4 % secured equipment certificates due June 15 , 1990 , was priced at 98.481 with a yield to maturity of 13.75 % . 
The first part , consisting of $ 2.5 million of 11 1\/4 % secured equipment certificates due June 15 , 1990 , was priced at 98.481 with a yield to maturity of 13.75 % . The second part , consisting of $ 28 million of 11 3\/4 % secured equipment certificates due June 15 , 1995 , was priced at 87.026 with a yield to maturity of 15.25 % . 
The issue was rated single-B-2 by Moody 's and single-B by S&P . 
Mr. Holmes was the subject of a page one profile in The Wall Street Journal in 1984 , after the SEC questioned him about ties between him and companies he touted in a newsletter . 
He gave 10-to-1 odds that a capital-gains tax cut of some sort would be approved this year , though it probably wo n't be included in the pending deficit-reduction bill . 
For individuals , the Packwood plan would exclude from income 5 % of the gain from the sale of a capital asset held for more than one year . 
For corporations , the top tax rate on the sale of assets held for more than three years would be cut to 33 % from the current top rate of 34 % . 
The Packwood plan would also include a proposal , designed by Sen. William Roth -LRB- R. , Del. -RRB- , that would expand and alter the deduction for individual retirement accounts . 
The Roth plan would create a new , non-deductible IRA from which money could be withdrawn tax-free not only for retirement , but also for the purchase of a first home and to pay education and medical expenses . 
For their part , the group of Democrats are working on a plan that , like the Packwood proposal , would grant larger exclusions to assets the longer they were held by individuals and companies . 
For their part , the group of Democrats are working on a plan that , like the Packwood proposal , would grant larger exclusions to assets the longer they were held by individuals and companies . Newly acquired assets would get a bigger break than those currently held . 
No one in the Senate is considering the capital-gains plan passed by the House . 
That plan would provide a 30 % exclusion to assets sold over a 2 1\/2-year period ending Dec. 31 , 1991 . 
After then , the House measure would boost the tax rate to 28 % and exclude from tax the gain attributable to inflation . 
But this quake was n't the big one , the replay of 1906 that has been feared for so many years . 
When the tremors struck , the region 's largely unseen high-tech fabric held up surprisingly well despite the devastation visible from the air . 
Michael L. Bandler , vice president for network technology at Pacific Bell Telephone Co. , says nearly all the network 's computer switches , which move thousands of calls a minute from one location to another , changed to battery power when the city lost power . 
The battery packs have enough power for only three hours , but that gave emergency crews time to turn on an emergency system that runs primarily on diesel fuel . 
Few telephone lines snapped . 
That 's because the widely used fiber-optic cable has been installed underground with 25 extra feet of cable between junction points . 
Nevertheless , phone service was sporadic 
Nevertheless , phone service was sporadic ; many computer terminals remained dark , and by late yesterday a third of San Francisco remained without power . 
Nevertheless , phone service was sporadic ; many computer terminals remained dark , and by late yesterday a third of San Francisco remained without power . Business in the nation 's fourth-largest metropolitan region was nearly paralyzed ; an estimated one million members of the work force stayed at home . 
The economic dislocation was as abrupt as the earthquake itself , as virtually all businesses shut down . 
The $ 125-billion-a-year Bay area economy represents one-fourth of the economy of the nation 's most populous state and accounts for 2 % to 3 % of the nation 's total output of goods and services , according to the Center for Continuing Study of the California Economy in Palo Alto . 
`` This has been a major disruption for the Bay area economy , '' says Pauline Sweezey , the chief economist at the California Department of Finance . 
The damage to the Bay area 's roadways could cause significant economic hardship . 
California state transportation officials interviewed by telephone say they nevertheless do n't expect serious problems for commerce in and out of the Bay area . 
Officials expect difficulty routing traffic through downtown San Francisco . 
The earthquake caused many streets to buckle and crack , making them impassible . 
Other roads were obstructed by collapsed buildings and damaged water and power lines , an emergency relief spokesman says . 
But many predicted that the commercial disruption would be short-lived . 
Of the scores of companies contacted by this newspaper , few reported any damage that they did n't expect to have remedied within a day or two . 
Typical , perhaps , was the situation at New United Motor Manufacturing Inc. , the General Motors Corp.-Toyota joint-venture auto plant in Fremont , about 35 miles south of Oakland . 
Ten of the plant 's workers were injured when the quake hit about a half-hour into the afternoon shift 
Ten of the plant 's workers were injured when the quake hit about a half-hour into the afternoon shift ; seven were hospitalized . 
Metal racks on the plant floor fell over , and water mains ruptured , a spokeswoman says . 
Computer maker Hewlett-Packard Co. , based in Palo Alto , says one of its buildings sustained severe damage when it was knocked off its foundation . 
Most banks were closed but were expected to reopen today with few problems anticipated . 
The Fed serves as a middleman for banks , taking checks from one bank and sending them to another , an operation that it handled smoothly Tuesday night after the quake . 
`` The volume we received from the banks was a lot lower than usual , '' he says . 
Most of the telephone problems in the immediate aftermath stemmed from congestion . 
The telephone network simply could n't handle the large number of people seeking to make a call at the same time . 
The construction industry is sure to feel increased demand . 
`` There will be a big influx of federal dollars and gains in state , federal and local employment , '' Ms. Mace says . 
Wall Street reacted swiftly yesterday to the disaster by bidding up stocks of construction and related companies . 
But any increase is n't likely to be any kind of a surge . 
It 's something likely to be spread out over a long period of time . 
The earthquake is likely to reduce GNP negligibly in the near term and then could raise it a bit as rebuilding begins . 
Many of the lost tourism dollars wo n't be recovered 
Subsequently , however , the ill effects are likely to be offset , at least in economic terms , as construction activity begins . 
Because of the way the government keeps its books , the damage to the Bay Bridge , however costly , wo n't be counted as a minus . 
`` It 's very difficult to model the long-term impact of this , '' says Andrew Goldberg , who studies the public-policy and crisis-management aspects of earthquakes at the Center for Strategic International Studies in Washington , D.C . 
`` You certainly can say it 's going to be extremely severe . 
Mr. Goldberg says the cost of the earthquake will definitely top $ 1 billion and could reach $ 4 billion . 
He cautions that early damage estimates are often low 
The earthquake damage , of course , would have been far greater if the epicenter had been in downtown San Francisco . 
Jack Byrne , the chairman of Fireman 's Fund Corp. , which is based in Novato , Calif. , estimates insured losses resulting the earthquake could total $ 2 billion . 
Fireman 's Fund insures 37,300 homes and autos and 35,000 businesses in the Bay area . 
But many Californians may not have adequate insurance coverage to pay for damages to their property . 
The Independent Insurance Agents of America says fewer than one of every five California homeowners has earthquake insurance . 
Whatever the long-term economic effect , the scene from the helicopter above Oakland is one of tragedy . 
Gargantuan sections of a double-decker freeway have been heaved about like plastic building blocks . 
Atop them sit cars and trucks abandoned in a terrifying scramble to safety the day before . 
On the periphery , rescue workers seem , from the air , to move in slow motion . 
The heart of the earthquake , 6.9 on the Richter scale , was 50 miles to the south , near Santa Cruz , but its terrible fist struck here on the Nimitz Freeway , a major artery serving the Bay Bridge between Oakland and San Francisco . 
Onlookers say three persons died when one of the buildings exploded into a fireball shortly after the quake struck . 
From the air , ribbons of yellow fire hose carry water from the bay to high-pressure nozzles trained on the site . 
`` Now , we realize what our mothers must have gone through , '' she says . 
PRINCE HENRI is the crown prince and hereditary grand duke of Luxembourg . 
The bonds are subject to federal taxation in the U.S. , including income taxes . 
Called Patients in the Know , the program features fact sheets designed to be easy to understand . 
Consumer groups have long advocated that drug companies and doctors make more information available to patients . 
`` We believe that every drug that 's marketed to a consumer should have a consumer label , '' said Douglas Teich of the Public Citizen Health Research Group , a Ralph Nader affiliate . 
According to federal officials and drug-industry studies , nearly half of the 1.6 billion prescriptions filled each year are n't used properly , meaning that money is wasted on some prescriptions and patients are deprived of the benefits of medication . 
With stocks not a major focus , `` we 're waiting for the next guiding light , '' said Brian J. Fabbri , chief economist at Midland Montagu Securities Inc . 
The Treasury 's benchmark 30-year bond , which jumped 3\/8 point , or about $ 3.75 for each $ 1,000 face amount , during the first hour of trading , ended little changed . 
But some so-called high-quality junk issues fell as some mutual funds sold their most liquid issues to raise cash . 
RJR Holdings Capital Corp. 's 14.7 % bonds due 2009 fell one point . 
A Continental spokeswoman said the notes may be offered at a later date . 
`` This was not a do-or-die deal , '' she said . 
`` I think this is a market that required some level of security . 
`` We 're being bombarded by new Treasury and agency debt offerings , '' said William Sullivan Jr. , director of money-market research at Dean Witter Reynolds Inc . 
Refcorp is the financing unit of Resolution Trust Corp. , a new government agency created to rescue the nation 's troubled thrifts . 
`` There are certain bonds traders refer to as ` earthquake ' bonds because the -LRB- issuers -RRB- are on top of the San Andreas fault , '' said Zane Mann , editor of the California Municipal Bond Advisor , a newsletter for investors . 
The benchmark 30-year bond ended at a price of 100 29\/32 to yield 8.03 % , compared with 100 28\/32 to yield 8.04 % Tuesday . 
The Continental junk bond offering , underwritten by Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. , was the only new issue priced yesterday . 
Traders said a steady stream of bonds was put up for sale yesterday , pushing yields for longer maturities up 0.05 percentage point . 
In late trading , New Jersey Turnpike Authority 's 7.20 % issue of 2018 was off 1\/4 point at 98 bid . 
Meanwhile , Government National Mortgage Association 9 % securities for November delivery ended at 97 29\/32 , unchanged . 
Traders said today may be an anxious day for the market . 
The chancellor sometimes has used the occasion to announce major economic policy changes . 
Meanwhile , Japanese government bonds retreated in quiet trading , stymied by the dollar 's resiliency . 
In West Germany , investors stayed on the sidelines as the bond market searched for direction . 
For the Politburo replaced Mr. Honecker , who had led East Germany for 18 years and before that headed its security apparatus , with a man cut of the same cloth : Egon Krenz , the most recent internal-security chief and a longtime Honecker protege . 
Still , any change in East Germany has enormous implications , for both East and West . 
Although the East German news agency ADN claimed Mr. Honecker had asked to be relieved of his duties for `` health reasons , '' West German government sources said the 26-man Politburo had asked for his resignation at a separate meeting late Tuesday . 
Mr. Honecker 's ignoble fall culminates nearly two decades of iron-handed leadership during which Mr. Honecker , now 77 years old , built East Germany into the most economically advanced nation in the Soviet bloc . 
His grip on power unraveled this summer as thousands of his countrymen , dissatisfied by the harshness of his rule , fled to the West . 
In Washington , the Bush administration took a characteristically cautious and skeptical view of the leadership change . 
Because Mr. Krenz has been very much in accord with the policies of Honecker . '' 
Indeed , Mr. Krenz said on East German television last night that there will be no sharing of power with pro-democracy groups . 
The removal of Mr. Honecker was apparently the result of bitter infighting within the top ranks of the Communist party . 
But , with public demonstrations in the country growing in size and intensity , Mr. Honecker and several key allies lost out in this battle , officials say . 
Those allies included Politburo members Guenter Mittag , who has long headed economic affairs , and Joachim Hermann , chief of information policy . 
Although other resignations may follow , it 's still not clear to what extent the change in party personnel will alter the government 's resistance to fundamental change . 
Born in 1937 in a Baltic Sea town now part of Poland , he was eight years old when World War II ended . 
Moreover , both men have hewn to a similar hard-line philosophy . 
Notably , one of Mr. Krenz 's few official visits overseas came a few months ago , when he visited China after the massacre in Beijing . 
However , Mr. Krenz also has a reputation for being politically savvy . 
Indeed , according to West German government sources , he was one of the leaders in the power struggle that toppled Mr. Honecker . 
In recent days , Mr. Krenz has sought to project a kinder image . 
`` He does n't want to have the image of the gun man , '' says Fred Oldenburg , an expert at the Bonn-sponsored Institute of East European and International Studies in Cologne . 
`` He 's not a reformer 
As part of his image polishing , Mr. Krenz is expected to take modest steps toward reform to rebuild confidence among the people and reassert the party 's authority . 
West German government officials and Western analysts are doubtful . 
At the same time , the expectations of the East German people are great and will continue to grow . 
Says one West German official : `` What 's necessary now is the process of democratization . 
Chancellor Kohl , meanwhile , has invited Mr. Krenz to open discussions with Bonn on a wide range of subjects . 
Reports in the West German press , citing sources in East Germany , suggest Mr. Krenz may serve only as a bridge between Mr. Honecker and a genuine reform leader . 
The selection of Mr. Krenz may also disappoint Moscow . 
Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev has pressed hard for a change in East Germany 's rigid stance . 
In Moscow , Mr. Gorbachev sent Mr. Krenz a congratulatory telegram that appeared to urge the new leadership to heed growing calls for change . 
A force of younger pro-Gorbachev members in the East German bureaucracy has for some time been pushing for relaxation within their country . 
From the perspective of East Germany 's old guard , reforms that smack of capitalism and Western-style democracy could eliminate their country 's reason for being . 
Unlike the other nations of the bloc , East Germany is a creature of the Cold War . 
Which is what the Old Guard fears . 
Up to now , that recipe has consisted of a dogged effort by former leader Walter Ulbricht to establish the country 's international legitimacy , followed by Mr. Honecker 's campaign to build the East bloc 's only successful Stalinist economy into a consumer paradise . 
The East German media soon began presenting Mr. Gorbachev 's speeches only as sketchy summaries , and giving space to his opponents . 
The country abandoned its former devotion to socialist unity and took to insisting instead that each country in the bloc ought to travel its own road . 
With this year 's dislocations in China and the Soviet Union , and the drive to democracy in Poland and Hungary , the East German leadership grew still more defensive . 
Politburo member Joachim Herrman confessed to a `` grave concern '' over Hungarian democracy . 
The first signs were economic . 
Despite heavily subsidized consumer industries , East Germans have for years watched the West pull farther out ahead . 
Gingerly , some economists began to blame central planning . 
But they are stalwart socialists . 
Their proclaimed purpose is to cleanse East Germany of its Stalinist muck , not to merge with the West . 
Mr. Honecker 's removal `` was bound to happen , '' says one aide to Chancellor Kohl . 
Leading EC growth forecasts in 1989 was Ireland , seen growing 5 % at constant prices . 
Inflation is expected to be highest in Greece , where it is projected at 14.25 % , and Portugal , at 13 % . 
Brands made by the Kraft General Foods unit of Philip Morris Cos. had about 95 % of the market share . 
Poland plans to start negotiations soon on purchasing natural gas from Iran , the official Islamic Republic News Agency reported . 
The agency said Polish Prime Minister Tadeusz Mazowiecki told Iranian Deputy Foreign Minister Mahmoud Vaezi of Poland 's willingess to purchase the gas during Mr. Vaezi 's current visit to Warsaw . 
A Chinese official harshly criticized plans to close a British naval base in downtown Hong Kong . 
But Beijing wants to use the base for the People 's Liberation Army after 1997 , when the territory returns to Chinese sovereignty . 
The Israeli and Soviet national airlines have reached preliminary agreement for launching the first direct flights between Tel Aviv and Moscow , a spokesman for the Israeli airline , El Al , said . 
El Al director Rafi Har-Lev and top officials of the Soviet Union 's Aeroflot negotiated a preliminary pact in Moscow this week , the spokesman said . 
One of the two British companies still making hard toilet paper stopped production of it . 
These rate indications are n't directly comparable 
But that was not the case at NBC News , which has been dogged with the image of not being aggressive on major breaking stories . 
A spokesman for National Broadcasting Co. , a unit of General Electric Co. , said the network was `` looking into what happened . '' 
Don Browne , director of news at NBC News , said in an interview that `` we could n't get a signal out of San Francisco . 
The quake postponed the third and fourth games of the World Series . 
A company spokesman said the decision to eliminate the dividend resulted from a quarterly appraisal and that circumstances had changed since the December announcement . 
In other operations , losses at MeraBank totaled $ 85.7 million in the latest quarter , compared with a $ 2.5 million profit a year earlier . 
The latest quarter includes a $ 42.7 million addition to loan-loss reserves . 
Pinnacle 's SunCor Development Co . real-estate unit 's loss narrowed to $ 13.8 million from $ 78.4 million . 
Under the proposal by Equitec , a financially troubled real-estate syndicator , New York-based Hallwood Group Inc. would replace Equitec as the newly formed master limited partnership 's general partner and manager . 
In a statement , Equitec Chairman Richard L. Saalfeld said the transfer will benefit both the company and investors in the 12 limited partnerships included in the proposed rollup . 
Only a week ago , when airline buy-out fever was already winding down , Mr. Steinhardt was engaged in a duel with USAir . 
He was threatening to take over the carrier , after spending an estimated $ 167 million to build an 8.4 % USAir stake for his investment clients . 
Now , in the wake of UAL 's troubles in financing its buy-out , the airline raiding game has been grounded . 
Traders say this all goes to show that even the smartest money manager can get infected with crowd passions . 
So , some see a special irony in the fact that Mr. Steinhardt , the trader , now is encumbered with a massive , illiquid airline holding . 
`` Long-term investing -- that 's not Steinhardt 's style , '' chuckles an investor who once worked at Steinhardt Partners . 
In 1987 , USAir Chairman Edwin Colodny stonewalled when Trans World Airlines Chairman Carl Icahn threatened to take over the carrier . 
Mr. Steinhardt also could take that route . 
Analysts say USAir has great promise . 
By the second half of 1990 , USAir stock could hit 60 , says Helane Becker of Shearson Lehman Hutton . 
However , Mr. Steinhardt says he 's `` comfortable holding USAir as an investment . '' 
While he has bought and sold some USAir shares in recent days , he says that contrary to rumors , he has n't tried to unload his holding . 
People close to the investor say that was an experiment he is unlikely to repeat . 
That will mark the second consecutive quarterly loss for Commodore and will raise additional questions about whether it can sustain the turnaround it had seemed to be engineering . 
Reflecting concerns about Commodore 's outlook , its stock has plunged more than 50 % since May , closing yesterday unchanged at $ 8.875 a share in composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange . 
The Commodore 64 and 128 , mainly used for children 's educational software and games , had surprised market researchers by continuing to produce strong sales even though other low-profit personal computers now operate several times as fast and have much more memory . 
Stock prices closed slightly higher in the first routine trading day since Friday 's big plunge . 
Broader averages also posted modest gains . 
Standard & Poor 's 500-Stock Index rose 0.60 to 341.76 , the Dow Jones Equity Market Index rose 0.71 to 320.54 and the New York Stock Exchange Composite Index gained 0.43 to 189.32 . 
But the Dow Jones Transportation Average went down for the seventh consecutive session , due largely to further selling in UAL . 
Big Board volume dropped to 166,900,000 shares , in line with the level of trading over the past few weeks , from 224.1 million Tuesday . 
Stocks retreated to session lows just after the opening amid worries about the market impact of the quake , but quickly snapped back to higher levels with the help of futures-related program buying . 
`` I did n't expect it to be this quiet . 
Mr. DeVoe said he expects prices to show some renewed instability over the next few sessions as institutions re-evaluate their stance toward the market in light of its decline . 
Issues of insurance brokers were especially strong . 
Elsewhere in the group , General Re rose 2 3\/4 to 86 1\/2 , American International Group gained 3 1\/4 to 102 5\/8 , Aetna Life & Casualty added 2 3\/8 to 59 1\/2 and Cigna advanced 7\/8 to 62 1\/2 . 
Companies in the construction , engineering and building-products sectors were among other beneficiaries of earthquake-related buying . 
The heavy-construction sector was the session 's best performer among Dow Jones industry groups 
Within the building-materials group , Georgia-Pacific climbed 1 1\/4 to 58 and Louisiana-Pacific added 1 to 40 3\/4 after Merrill Lynch recommended the forest-products issues . 
BankAmerica eased 1\/2 to 31 7\/8 and Wells Fargo lost 1\/2 to 81 1\/2 
While UAL faltered , AMR , the parent of American Airlines , pulled out of its recent nosedive by rising 3\/4 to 74 . 
Also , AMR was the most active Big Board issue 
GTE added 1 1\/4 to 65 3\/8 . 
Springs Industries dropped 1 3\/8 to 36 . 
Carnival Cruise Lines Class A rose 1 1\/4 to 22 3\/8 . 
Computer Associates has carved out a huge business selling such software for use in managing networks of International Business Machines Corp. computers but needs to find new markets if it is to maintain its growth rate of 30 % and more each year . 
At the same time , the market is smaller than the market for IBM-compatible software . 
Wang Laboratories Inc. , Lowell , Mass. , beset by declining demand for its computers , reported a $ 62.1 million , 38-cents-a-share loss in its first quarter ended Sept. 30 . 
Chicago-based Continental earned $ 65.2 million , or $ 1.04 a share , compared with $ 73.6 million , or $ 1.19 a share , a year earlier . 
A subsidiary of Britain 's Imperial Chemical Industries would buy electricity and steam from the proposed station . 
A year ago , Viacom had a net loss of $ 56.9 million , or $ 1.07 a share . 
Viacom said it also restructured bank debt under a $ 1.5 billion unsecured bank agreement that offers significant interest rate savings . 
Trinova said it will close , move or overhaul 40 of its 170 manufacturing facilities and over the next three years cut 1,500 jobs from its current world-wide payroll of 22,300 employees . 
The $ 29.7 million net loss compares with net income of $ 19.6 million , or 57 cents a share , a year earlier . 
Florio Fiorini , managing director of Geneva-based Sasea , said the investors would pay only a symbolic one lira for the station , `` but we have agreed to raise the capital that will enable the company to continue operating . 
He added that details of the recapitalization still have to be worked out , but that Pathe will take 50 % of Odeon , Rome film producer Bruno Lucisano will take 10 % and the remaining 16.66 % , currently owned by Sasea , will eventually be sold to other investors . 
Italy 's Supreme Court this year ordered Parliament to write a law that will regulate media ownership . 
`` The press has been doing an excellent job . 
Mr. Ball noted that television stations featured people holding up phone books , explaining where to call for help . 
Sterling Software Inc. said it lost its bid to supply software services to the National Aeronautics and Space Administration 's Ames Research Center at Moffett Field , Calif . 
James A. Hagen , chairman and chief executive officer , noted that earnings advanced `` in the face of a drop in business , brought on by the general economic slowdown . '' 
For the nine months , Conrail earnings grew 0.4 % to $ 229 million , or $ 3.34 a share , from $ 228 million , or $ 3.31 a share . 
The Atlanta-based chemical manufacturer said lower prices hurt margins for most products . 
On a per-share basis , quarterly earnings remained at $ 1.85 , the same as last year , because of the company 's share buy-back program . 
Los Angeles Mayor Tom Bradley used the opportunity to push the City Council harder to pass a measure establishing a loss-recovery reserve of $ 100 million . 
The Arizona regulatory ruling calls for $ 42 million in added revenue yearly , compared with a $ 57 million boost proposed by the commission hearing officer . 
The proposed holding company 's primary purpose would be to allow Great American to continue engaging in real estate development activities , it said . 
Those activities generated $ 26.1 million in operating profit last year . But according to Great American , such profits do n't count toward meeting the San Diego savings bank 's new capitalization requirements under 1989 federal law . 
The proposed holding company would also consolidate Great American Bank in San Diego and its Tucson , Ariz. , savings bank into a single , federally chartered institution in San Diego . 
Last Friday , he told the staff of Ms. that the magazine in January would begin publishing without advertising . 
`` Any fool can publish a money-losing magazine . 
Their reaction was to do nothing and ride it out . '' 
Sassy already has recovered 
Sassy already has recovered ; circulation has quickly passed the 500,000 mark and advertising pages have stabilized this year at more than 300 . 
`` But Sassy has a different spirit . 
It gets more mail in a month than McCall 's got in a year , and it 's not from mothers . 
The magazine Success , however , was for years lackluster and unfocused . 
Only recently has it been attractively redesigned and its editorial product improved . 
Working Woman and Working Mother have operated as part of Working Woman\/McCall 's Group , a less-than-successful joint venture between Mr. Lang and Time Warner Inc . 
Executives at Time Inc . Magazine Co. , a subsidiary of Time Warner , have said the joint venture with Mr. Lang was n't a good one . 
The venture , formed in 1986 , was supposed to be Time 's low-cost , safe entry into women 's magazines . 
In addition , McCall 's put in a less than stellar performance . 
Until a recent comeback , it saw steep losses in ad pages and circulation . 
Mr. Lang feels that Time 's priorities changed . 
Today , Mr. Lang believes his magazines will offer what many women 's magazines do n't . 
`` We write straight for women on their level , '' he said . 
`` We do n't have passive readers . '' 
Mr. Lang has named Carol Taber , 43 , as group publisher of New York-based Lang Communications . 
Mr. Lang says he is n't scouting new acquisitions , at least for now . 
`` Besides , we have enough on our plate . 
In the nine months , the company 's net income was $ 21.5 million , or $ 1.88 a share , compared with a year-earlier loss of $ 97.8 million , or $ 8.96 a share . 
Acting more than a year after Ms. Bertussi filed a complaint , the panel issued a `` letter of reproval '' saying Rep. Bates had admitted conduct that violated a House rule forbidding discrimination against employees on account of their sex . 
Rep. Bates said he would write the letters as ordered . 
But Farmington , N.M.-based Mesa said the offer was for $ 7 in cash and unspecified StatesWest securities valued at $ 3 a share . 
Last week , Mesa rejected a general proposal from StatesWest that the two carriers combine . 
Fleet\/Norstar Financial Group reported a 12 % increase in net income in the third quarter , led by a 43 % gain in its financial services group . 
The Shreveport , La. , natural gas company said the charges , though partially offset by a one-time gain from the offering , will result in a full-year after-tax loss . 
Arkla said it will report $ 179 milllion in one-time charges against continuing operations for the third quarter , reflecting settlement of certain natural gas contracts . 
The redemption then would be at 1.5 % of the total debt , increasing to 2.5 % in February 1991 , and to 3 % at six-month intervals thereafter . 
Net surged to $ 210.8 million , or $ 2.68 a share , from $ 26.7 million , or 33 cents a share , a year earlier . 
Exclusive of the gain , operating profit declined 35 % to $ 16.4 million , or 21 cents a share , from $ 25.2 million , or 31 cents a share . 
The decline primarily reflected the dilution from acquiring McCall 's , Golf World -LRB- U.S. -RRB- and Sailing World magazines ; lower equity earnings from the forest-products group because of price discounting and an unfavorable exchange rate , and an 8.7 % decline in advertising linage at the New York Times , the company 's flagship newspaper . 
Mr. Taylor 's overwhelming victory against Republican Tom Anderson reclaims a seat the Republicans had held for 17 years and gives the Democrats their fifth victory in the seven special House elections held this year . 
Mr. Taylor 's victory was an embarrassment for both state and national Republicans . 
The calls reached many , but certainly not all , of the publicly held companies with operations in the area . 
ADIA SERVICES INC. , Menlo Park , temporary personnel agency , annual sales of $ 504 million , OTC , said all 30 offices in Bay area were working , but in various states of disarray . 
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC. , Sunnyvale , integrated circuit maker , annual sales of $ 1.12 billion , NYSE , had only minor structural damage . 
AMERICAN PRESIDENT COS. , Oakland , shipping concern , annual sales of $ 2.2 billion , NYSE , had little damage to the cranes , dock or rail track at its container-ship facility near the collapsed Route 880 overpass . 
APPLE COMPUTER CO. , Cupertino , computer maker , annual sales of $ 4.07 billion , OTC , sustained some structural damage . 
APPLIED MATERIALS INC. , Santa Clara , maker of computer-chip machine systems , annual sales of $ 490 million , OTC , had slight damage to headquarters , no damage to manufacturing plants . 
BECHTEL CORP. , San Francisco , engineering and construction concern , annual sales of $ 4 billion , had only minor structural damage at its three buildings in the city , but its computers were knocked out . 
BIO-RAD LABORATORIES INC. , Hercules , biological research and clinical-products leader , $ 200 million in annual sales , Amex , said its Richmond warehouse north of San Francisco was closed because of debris and fallen shelves . 
BORLAND INTERNATIONAL , Scotts Valley , personal computer and software designer , annual sales of $ 72 million , had heavy damage to its headquarters and was conducting business from its parking lot . 
BUSINESSLAND INC. , San Jose , computer retail company , annual sales of $ 1.1 billion , NYSE , said all 16 corporate office and stores in the area were open with the exception of a retail center in San Francisco 's business district . 
CARTER HAWLEY HALE STORES Inc. , Los Angeles , retailer , annual sales of $ 2.79 billion , NYSE , said nine of its 22 Emporium stores in the area were closed because of water damage , broken windows and fallen displays . 
CHEVRON CORP. , San Francisco , oil company , annual sales of $ 25.2 billion , NYSE , had minor damage to downtown headquarters , but structural damage closed two of its seven buildings in San Ramone industrial park . 
DIASONICS INC. , South San Francisco , maker of magnetic resonance imaging equipment , annual sales of $ 281 million , Amex , had minor damage , mostly in a stockroom . 
GENERAL ELECTRIC CO. , Fairfield , Conn. , consumer , industrial products and broadcasting concern , annual sales of $ 50 billion , NYSE , said its GE Nuclear Energy unit , with 1,600 Bay-area employees , had only minor damage at its San Jose headquarters . 
GENERAL MOTORS CORP. , Detroit , auto maker , annual sales of $ 123.6 billion , NYSE , sustained about 10 injuries to workers and some ruptured water mains at its New United Motor Manufacturing Inc. facility in Fremont , a joint venture with Toyota Motor Corp . 
There was limited production of some models yesterday , but it was n't clear when the normal 750-car-a-day pace will resume . 
HEWLETT-PACKARD Co. , Palo Alto , personal computer and electronic equipment maker , annual sales of $ 9.8 billion , NYSE , said there will be a `` minimal suspension '' of manufacturing for an undefined period . 
One building in Palo Alto may be damaged beyond repair . 
One building in Palo Alto may be damaged beyond repair . Others had lesser damage and there were no injuries among workers . 
HOMESTAKE MINING CO. , San Francisco , gold and general miner , annual sales of $ 432.6 million , NYSE , said its headquarters was closed yesterday because of power failures and lack of water , but that it may reopen today . 
HOMESTEAD FINANCIAL CORP. , Millbrae , financial services concern , annual revenue of $ 562 million , OTC , said three of its 17 Bay-area branches were closed yesterday . 
INMAC CORP. , Santa Clara , maker of computer accessories , annual sales of $ 250 million , OTC , said telephones were out at its headquarters but service should be restored by today . 
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES Corp , Armonk , N.Y. , maker of business machines , NYSE , said flooding caused by broken water pipes closed its San Jose plant , which makes high-end data-storage devices . 
Also closed yesterday were the company 's Santa Teresa software-development lab and the Almaden research center . 
SAFEWAY STORES INC. , Oakland , retail food chain , annual sales of $ 13.6 billion , some structural damage to headquarters and no power 
SAFEWAY STORES INC. , Oakland , retail food chain , annual sales of $ 13.6 billion , some structural damage to headquarters and no power ; major problems transporting products to those stores that remained open 
Firm will not , however , resume 24-hour service until power in city is restored . 
SOUTHERN PACIFIC TRANSPORTATION CO. , San Francisco , railroad , annual sales of $ 2.41 billion , had only minor damage to headquarters and tracks , and expects to be fully operational tomorrow . 
SUN MICROSYSTEMS INC. , Mountain View , maker of desktop computers , annual sales $ 1.77 billion , OTC , no injured employees and very little damage to buildings . 
It could easily be two years before the well-traveled artery that helps connect Oakland with San Francisco is reopened , and the cost to build a new stretch of highway could soar to more than $ 250 million , said Charles J. O'Connell , deputy district director in Los Angeles of the California Department of Transportation , nicknamed Caltrans . 
The aftershocks of the highway tragedy are reverberating in Los Angeles as well , as local politicians spoke yesterday against plans to bring double-decking to Los Angeles freeways by 1994 . 
Caltrans plans to add a second deck for buses and car pools above the median of a 2.5-mile stretch of the Harbor Freeway just south of Los Angeles , near the Memorial Coliseum . 
That temblor measured 6.1 on the Richter scale 
The two-story roadway , designed in the mid-1940s and completed in 1957 , was supported by columns that apparently lacked the kind of steel reinforcement used in highways today . 
While the pillars did have long metal bars running vertically through them for reinforcement , they apparently lacked an adequate number of metal `` ties '' that run horizontally through the column , said Leo Parker , a structural engineer in Los Angeles . 
Liability in the bridge and road collapses will revolve around whether government took `` reasonable care '' to build and maintain the structures , says John Messina , a Tacoma , Wash. , personal-injury attorney who specializes in highway design and maintenance cases . 
The results of the quake certainly raise questions about whether reasonable care was taken , Mr. Messina says . 
Caltrans ' Mr. Drago defended the agency 's work on the Nimitz Freeway . 
`` The work was done properly , '' he said . 
But only bridges supported with single rows of columns were top priority , and the Nimitz Freeway , supported by double rows , was left out , Mr. Drago explained . 
Robert I. Toussie , general partner of the investment group , said the Lionel response reflected management 's entrenched position , saying officials had failed to come up with a better alternative to his group 's offer . 
In a statement issued after the meeting , the aerospace giant said it wo n't increase its offer although adjustments within the proposed pay-and-benefit mix are possible . 
Machinists already have rejected a proposal that called for a 4 % pay increase and 8 % bonus in the first year . 
`` The company will not budge on anything , '' said a spokesman for the union . 
Last month , Mr. Ruskin proposed , among other things , to buy 3.5 million shares , or 38 % , for $ 4 apiece . 
In the aftermath of the California earthquake , President Bush and his aides flew into a whirlwind of earthquake-related activity yesterday morning . 
By noon , Mr. Bush had taken two phone calls from Vice President Dan Quayle 
By noon , Mr. Bush had taken two phone calls from Vice President Dan Quayle , who was in California ; made a televised statement of concern 
By noon , Mr. Bush had taken two phone calls from Vice President Dan Quayle , who was in California ; made a televised statement of concern ; signed a disaster proclamation 
Mr. Bush himself essentially acknowledged that he and his aides were trying to head off criticism . 
The White House already is talking of Mr. Bush visiting the California earthquake site this weekend . 
The ground ruptured along a 20-to-30-mile stretch of the San Andreas Fault on Tuesday , Mr. Johnson added . 
`` Landfill -- loose and unconsolidated earth -- may feel like rock but it behaves like liquid when you shake it , '' said Douglas Segar , professor of geosciences at San Francisco State University in a televised interview . 
Mr. Johnson , of the Berkeley seismographic station , said : `` Landfill can be done if it 's properly compacted . 
You can drive piles on it and build on it . '' 
`` The attention span of the public is short , '' he said . 
Reinforcing such old building stock , Mr. Johnson said , `` comes down to money . 
It 's a danger . 
`` The big one is still due , '' Mr. Johnson predicted in an interview . 
`` The Bay Area has three very dangerous faults , the San Andreas , the Hayward fault and the Calaveras fault . 
It -LCB- Tuesday 's quake -RCB- has n't solved our problem . 
Coke said it will test market a caffeine-free version of its flagship brand , Coca-Cola Classic , beginning next week in Charlotte , N.C . 
Coke introduced a caffeine-free sugared cola based on its original formula in 1983 . 
As aftershocks shook the San Francisco Bay area , rescuers searched through rubble for survivors of Tuesday 's temblor , and residents picked their way through glass-strewn streets . 
At least 270 people were reported killed and 1,400 injured in the rush-hour tremor that caused billions of dollars of damage along 100 miles of the San Andreas fault . 
The 77-year-old official , who oversaw the building of the Berlin Wall , was removed during a meeting of the 163-member Communist Party Central Committee in East Berlin . 
At a nationally televised legislative session in Budapest , the Parliament overwhelmingly approved changes formally ending one-party domination in the country , regulating free elections by next summer and establishing the office of state president to replace a 21-member council . 
The country was renamed the Republic of Hungary . 
The Census Bureau reported that 13.1 % of the U.S. population , or 31.9 million people , were living in poverty in 1988 . 
Last year 's figure was down from 13.4 % in 1987 and marked the fifth consecutive annual decline in the poverty rate . 
The Bush administration accused Israeli Prime Minister Shamir of hindering peace efforts in the Mideast with `` unhelpful '' and disappointing statements . 
Arab officials in Saudi Arabia said three-week-old talks by Lebanese lawmakers aimed at ending Lebanon 's civil war appeared about to collapse . 
Dow Chemical Co. said third-quarter net income slipped 6.8 % from a record year-ago quarter . 
Dow 's third-quarter net fell to $ 589 million , or $ 3.29 a share , from $ 632 million , or $ 3.36 a share , a year ago . 
Dow officials were signaling that the company would earn less than $ 15 a share this year even before they announced in July a plan to acquire 67 % of Marion Laboratories Inc . 
That acquisition could further dilute earnings per share this year , the company spokeswoman said . 
Dow blamed the third-quarter earnings drop on several factors , including softer prices for polyethylene and other basic chemicals , a slower U.S. economy and a stronger dollar , which made Dow 's exports from the U.S. more expensive to overseas customers . 
For the first nine months of the year , Dow earned $ 2.06 billion , or $ 11.41 a share , up 17 % from $ 1.76 billion , or $ 9.32 a share , a year ago . 
Ethan Bronner 's `` Battle for Justice : How the Bork Nomination Shook America '' -LRB- Norton , 399 pages , $ 22.50 -RRB- is a spirited narrative of the nastiest of these hearings , done with journalistic verve , but with a flawed legal philosophy . 
While the book amply justifies its subtitle , the title itself is dubious . 
Mr. Bronner seems to believe that the hearings could have gone either way . 
I doubt that . 
Given Democratic frustration with the Reagan victories and Court appointments , the contingency plans in place , and Mr. Bork 's paper trail of vulnerable writings , it was pretty clear that Judge Bork never stood much chance of being confirmed . 
Perhaps because they won , Mr. Bork 's attackers come through more vividly than his defenders . 
Ralph Neas was the organizing genius , whipping a conglomerate of pressure groups into an irresistible attacking force . 
But it was Ted Kennedy who scored most effectively with his searing portrayal of `` Robert Bork 's America '' -- the parade of imaginary horribles that would follow logically , he claimed , from the positions Mr. Bork had taken over the space of two decades . 
I add two others . 
Republican Sen. Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania engaged the nominee in a verbal contest aimed at showing that Mr. Bork was willing to stretch the Constitution in one area -LRB- free speech -RRB- while remaining rigid in all the others . 
It achieved a good media play , and enabled Sen. Specter and others to vote against Mr. Bork out of `` conscience . '' Republican Sen. Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania engaged the nominee in a verbal contest aimed at showing that Mr. Bork was willing to stretch the Constitution in one area -LRB- free speech -RRB- while remaining rigid in all the others . 
Further ammunition came from left legal theorist Ronald Dworkin , who in the New York Review of Books painted a picture of a constitutional zombie willfully reading his personal prejudices into the Constitution , particularly in the area of `` original intent . '' 
But Democratic Sen. Bennett Johnson of Louisiana reminded the little band that anti-Bork blacks and women could furnish the margin to punish them in their next Senate elections . 
Another upshot , however , was the chilling message the Bork hearings sent into the judicial culture from which the Supreme Court draws its talent . 
Unfortunately , the author simply does n't supply the philosophical frame to sustain his reportorial talents . 
He has too readily swallowed the case for the activist law school culture . 
Still , the long view of Robert Bork as constitutional thinker must be a spotty one . 
His strength lies in his majoritarian doctrine , which keeps the Court clear of transient group pressures and leaves most decisions in a democracy to elected legislatures and executives . 
The question of segregated schools , in Brown vs. Board of Education , was such an issue . 
In our time abortion has become another , best left to a line of Supreme Court decisions rather than to the chaos of 50 state legislatures . 
A reflective and growing consensus of Americans clearly wishes to apply the right to privacy in contraceptive matters -LRB- decided in the Griswold case -RRB- to abortion as well . 
One can understand Mr. Bork 's fear that the new right to privacy will become intolerably stretched , though a Supreme Court composed of men and women with realism , guts and a sense of limits should be able to manage it . 
What Sotheby 's is doing closely resembles an underwriting by an investment bank . 
A corporation that wants to sell stock or bonds goes to a Wall Street firm , which purchases the securities outright , accepting the financial risk of finding buyers . 
At the initial sale last night , for example -- the sale featuring the Impressionists masters -- bids totaled $ 116 million . 
That was slightly above Sotheby 's presale estimate of $ 111 million . 
Explains a Sotheby 's spokeswoman , the statement `` means exactly what it says . 
We have some level of financial interest '' in the collection . 
In November 1987 , Sotheby 's essentially offered a Wall Street-style `` bridge loan '' of about $ 27 million to Australian businessman Alan Bond to enable him to purchase Vincent van Gogh 's `` Irises '' for $ 53.9 million . 
Sotheby 's is offering such deals because it 's an art sellers ' market , at least where the best works are concerned , says Ralph Lerner , an attorney and author of the book `` Art Law . '' 
`` There seems to be a lot of art for sale , but there 's more competition . 
Sotheby 's has been aggressively promoting the Dorrance sale . 
At a news conference last May announcing plans for the auction , Sotheby 's estimated its value in excess of $ 100 million . 
Meanwhile , Sotheby 's guarantee is raising eyebrows in the art world . 
`` The consumer has to throw out the idea that the auction house is a disinterested middleman , '' says New York art dealer David Tunick . 
`` There 's more and more of this cash-up-front going on at every level , '' says Bruce Miller , president of Art Funding Corp. , an art lender . 
Dealers and auction houses `` know if they do n't lay out a half a million for this , another one will 
Mr. Krenz almost certainly will be a younger version of Erich Honecker , his rigid predecessor as dictator . 
Mr. Krenz has followed much the same career path as Mr. Honecker 
Mr. Krenz has followed much the same career path as Mr. Honecker : Both spent years overseeing the Freie Deutsche Jugend , the youth group that is the communist regime 's principal tool for stamping young Germans into socialist citizens . 
But if East Germany 's arthritic Politburo does loosen up enough to permit Mr. Krenz to make serious efforts at reform , he will face a challenge just as fundamental . 
Abandoning socialism means abandoning the East German state 's reason for existence , and with it the justification for its watchdogs and its Wall . 
Mr. Krenz may need a bit of time to consolidate his empire , which would do a lot to promote Reunification Scenario One . 
Cartoonists in West Germany have already mocked the exodus by imagining an advertisement placed by Mr. Honecker : `` Wanted : one people . '' 
Of course East Germany , true to its tradition , could tighten its borders yet further . 
The problem is one that East Germany shares with other half-states , such as North Korea , but one it must shoulder alone in the East Bloc . 
When Poland moves to reform , it can at least lean on its past 
When Poland moves to reform , it can at least lean on its past : However flawed and short-lived Joseph Pilsudski 's interwar republic , it was a nonsocialist democracy . 
Czech reformers can recall the Wilsonian ideals of the same period in their country . 
But East Germany is merely `` the land of truly existing socialism . '' 
Beyond that , it has to compete with West Germany for a claim to the German identity . 
With talk today of a second economic miracle in West Germany , East Germany no longer can content itself with being the economic star in a loser league . 
Without Moscow 's military and party behind it , East Germany runs the risk of disintegrating . 
If it goes capitalist , and increases trade with West Germany , it will convert itself , willy-nilly , into an economic annex of the Federal Republic . 
There 's a certain cruel logic at work here 
There may be forces that would delay this scenario . 
Ideologues are the last to surrender , and Germans are an ideological people . 
Ideologues on the other side of the border can also slow the process . 
In a statement that was as close as East Germany gets to practicing `` glasnost '' , Otto Reinhold , an East German party theorist , actually acknowledged the reunification dilemma . 
`` The main problem , '' Mr. Reinhold said in an East German radio interview monitored by Radio Free Europe in Munich , stems from the fact that `` the GDR is different '' from other East European states . 
But most businesses in the Bay area , including Silicon Valley , were n't greatly affected . 
Leveraged buy-outs may be curbed by two rules in pending congressional legislation . 
Housing starts sank 5.2 % in September to a seven-year low . 
A capital-gains tax cut plan has been worked out by Senate Republicans . 
The British carrier also confirmed it is n't committed to going forward with any new bid . 
Stock prices rose slightly as trading slowed , while bonds ended little changed despite a slumping dollar . 
B.A.T Industries may delay part of its defensive restructuring plan , including the sale of its Saks Fifth Avenue and Marshall Field units . 
WCRS Group announced a major restructuring that largely removes it from the advertising business . 
Sears is negotiating to refinance its Sears Tower for close to $ 850 million , sources said . 
`` We 're trading with a very wary eye on Wall Street , '' said Trevor Woodland , chief corporate trader at Harris Trust & Savings Bank in New York . 
In late New York trading yesterday , the dollar was quoted at 1.8485 marks , down from 1.8667 marks late Tuesday , and at 141.45 yen , down from 142.75 yen late Tuesday . 
The Fed did , in fact , execute $ 1.5 billion of liquidity-enhancing customer repurchase agreements , the third set of repurchase orders in three days . 
For now , traders say the foreign exchange market is scrutinizing both federal funds and events on Wall Street . 
Indeed , the U.S. unit edged lower as the Dow Jones Industrial Average dropped about 13 points in early trading . 
Dealers suggest that the only positive news on the horizon that could detract attention from equities transactions is September 's U.S. consumer price data . 
Trading on little specific information , market players overnight in Tokyo began bidding up oil prices . 
West Texas Intermediate was bid up more than 20 cents a barrel in many overseas markets . 
In the San Francisco area , roughly 800,000 barrels a day of crude , about a third of all the refining capacity in California , is processed daily , according to industry data . 
But yesterday , as the morning wore on , some major West Coast refinery operators -- including Chevron Corp. , Exxon Corp. and the Shell Oil Co. unit of Royal Dutch\/Shell Group -- said their refineries were n't damaged and were continuing to operate normally . 
Most said they shut down their petroleum pipeline operations as a precaution but did n't see any immediate damage . 
As the news spread that the refineries were intact , crude prices plunged , ending the day at $ 20.56 a barrel , down 19 cents . 
As the news spread that the refineries were intact , crude prices plunged , ending the day at $ 20.56 a barrel , down 19 cents . Gasoline for November delivery was off 1.26 cents a gallon to 54.58 cents . 
`` The market was basically acting on two contradictory forces , '' said Nauman Barakat of Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc . 
But once that factor was eliminated , traders took profits and focused on crude oil inventories , Mr. Barakat said . 
But some market players still think earthquake speculation could have more impact on the oil markets . 
Futures prices eased on indications of improvement in the industry 's labor situation . 
The December contract declined 1.85 cents a pound to $ 1.2645 . 
According to one analyst , workers at the Cananea copper mine in Mexico , which has n't been operating since it was declared bankrupt by the Mexican government in late August , are set to return to work . 
According to one analyst , workers at the Cananea copper mine in Mexico , which has n't been operating since it was declared bankrupt by the Mexican government in late August , are set to return to work . The analyst said it will take about two to three months before the mine begins to produce copper in significant quantities . 
Another analyst said the Cananea return to operation may not be as near as some expect . 
Nevertheless , the increasing likelihood that these two major supply disruptions will be resolved weighed on the market , the analysts agreed . 
Both of these mines are normally major suppliers of copper to Japan , which has been buying copper on the world market . 
`` The focus for some time has been on the copper supply , and good demand has been taken for granted , '' he said . 
`` Now that the supply situation seems to be improving , it would be best for traders to switch their concentration to the demand side . '' He noted the Commerce Department report yesterday that housing starts in September dropped 5.2 % from August to 1.26 million units on an annualized basis , the lowest level in seven years . 
Futures prices extended Tuesday 's gains . 
According to one dealer , Japan said it has only 40,000 tons of sugar remaining to be shipped to it this year by Cuba under current commitments . 
The announcement was made because of reports Tuesday that Cuba would delay shipments to Japan scheduled for later this year , into early next year . 
One analyst said he thought the market continued to be supported to some degree by a delay in the Cuban sugar harvest caused by adverse weather . 
The dealer said India might be the real factor that is keeping futures prices firm . 
The Agriculture Department is expected to announce tomorrow that the number of cattle in the 13 major ranch states slipped 4 % to 8.21 million on Oct. 1 compared with the level a year earlier , said Tom Morgan , president of Sterling Research Corp. , Arlington Heights , Ill . 
Cattle prices have risen in recent weeks on speculation that the government 's quarterly report will signal tighter supplies of beef . 
But researchers say the drug , called FK-506 , could revolutionize the transplantation field by reducing harmful side effects and by lowering rejection rates . 
Researchers began using the drug in February on patients who had received kidney , liver , heart and pancreas transplants . 
`` We 're shocked by it , because it 's worked so fast , '' said Dr. Thomas E. Starzl , director of the University of Pittsburgh Transplantation Program , at a news conference here yesterday . 
They are also encouraged by the relatively mild side effects of FK-506 , compared with cyclosporine , which can cause renal failure , morbidity , nausea and other problems . 
Dr. Starzl said the research has been largely financed by the National Institute of Health and by university funds , and that Fujisawa did n't give the hospital any grants . 
According to Mr. Laband , `` screaming '' for price controls occurs when income redistribution `` threatens to hit home . '' 
Moreover , essential relief supplies such as ice must be distributed throughout the population because of potential health problems from spoiled food and possible outbreak of disease . 
Fortunately , volunteers and charities are not motivated by self-interest , but by altruism . 
Mr. Laband , meanwhile , gets an A for his rote recital of economic-efficiency arguments . 
Mr. Laband gives us an idea why economists ' predictions are usually wrong . 
They set up absurd situations , detached from reality , and then try to reason from them . 
Since he concentrated on the economic folly of such ordinances , he did n't mention certain other of their effects . 
Mr. Laband should beware , since he lives in South Carolina . 
Having been through several tornadoes and hurricanes , I have a different perspective . 
Their recovery came surprisingly fast , and always with the help of neighbors . 
We here in the affected areas were dazzled by Mr. Laband 's analysis of time values and his comparisons of effectiveness concerning research and development . 
His theoretical approach and its publication in this venerable paper are no doubt a noteworthy accomplishment for him . 
We consumers tend to have long memories . 
The businesses subscribing to Mr. Laband 's effective price system will be remembered when normalcy returns . 
This seems to be the season for revivals in Chicago . 
Assuming modern audiences readily understand that Moliere 's social indictment covers their world as well as 17th-century Paris , Mr. Wilbur concentrated his formidable artistry on rendering the Alexandrine French verse into sprightly and theatrical English iambic pentameter . 
But if you happen to be coming to Chicago in the next few weeks , do n't fail to have a look at Robert Falls 's `` The Misanthrope '' at the Goodman . 
Mr. Falls , the Goodman 's artistic director , took a recent adaptation by Neil Bartlett and significantly adapted it . 
Mr. Bartlett had slimmed Moliere 's cast of characters to six and set them in the London media world of Thatcherite Britain . 
Mr. Bartlett managed to more or less maintain Moliere 's Alexandrine verse form , 12 syllable lines in rhyming couplets . 
Silences were lengthy -- nobody moved or gestured . 
But under Jerry Perry 's direction the current Steppenwolf production , scheduled to play through Nov. 19 , breaks through the flat and boring ritual that `` The Homecoming '' had become . 
Three of the family members , Max and his two sons , Lenny and Joey , live off the flesh : Max is a retired butcher , Lenny a pimp and Joey an aspiring boxer . 
Sam , Max 's brother , has escaped the flesh by working as a liveried chauffeur and never seeking a wife . 
Curiously , Randall Arney as Teddy seems the only cast member unable to get beyond the zombie approach to a Pinter character . 
In the end , Teddy returns alone to America , leaving Ruth in Max 's chair . 
While Steppenwolf was in London with `` The Grapes of Wrath , '' Bruce Sagan , the president of its board of directors , quietly returned to Chicago to buy a piece of real estate in the city 's rapidly reviving North Halsted Street restaurant and theater district . 
Within a year he hopes Steppenwolf will move into a new 500-seat theater on that site . 
The troupe currently performs in a converted dairy that seats 211 and provides little capacity for staging anything beyond a simple one-set production . 
Steppenwolf needs the extra seats even more than the fly space . 
It 's currently forced to turn away many potential subscribers beyond the 13,000 who can be accommodated in its present digs . 
Mr. Sagan , a former publisher and real estate developer , has put together an $ 8 million financial package that includes approximately $ 4 million of tax exempt bonds issued by the State of Illinois -LRB- the first time that a state has used its educational facilities authority to support construction of a theater -RRB- , and approximately $ 1 million in grants from the National Endowment for the Arts , the MacArthur Foundation , and a few other deep pockets . 
The rest , he is confident , can be raised . 
But Welles 's theater company turned out to have a brief -- one might say a mercurial -- existence . 
The Nasdaq Composite Index jumped 0.7 % , or 3.35 , to 463.28 . 
It rose more than the New York Stock Exchange Composite , which improved 0.2 % . 
Richard Bruno , head of OTC trading at PaineWebber , said the OTC market has a habit of lagging big moves on the New York Stock Exchange . 
Much of the jockeying by OTC traders and investors centered on shares of companies that might be financially affected by damage from the devastating earthquake in northern California . 
But Mr. Gilmartin said the hurricane damage was n't extensive enough to prompt premium boosts . 
`` The companies just gave back what they had reserved for , '' he said . 
Overall OTC insurance issues were mixed . 
Safeco fell 1\/8 to 32 5\/8 on 462,900 shares . 
Ohio Casualty rose 1\/4 to 51 3\/4 on 137,200 shares . 
St. Paul Cos. jumped 2 to 59 3\/4 on 517,500 shares . 
Investors expect SunGard Data Systems , a company that provides disaster recovery services for computer-dependent businesses , to profit from the earthquake . 
But most of those stocks fared well . 
Apple Computer gained 1 to 48 1\/4 
But most of those stocks fared well . Apple Computer gained 1 to 48 1\/4 ; Ashton-Tate rose 3\/8 to 10 3\/8 . Intel also added 3\/8 to 33 7\/8 . But Sun Microsystems slipped 1\/4 to 17 1\/4 . 
Shares of biotechnology companies in the area were also higher . 
The stocks of computer-related companies located outside California improved , too . 
In other earthquake-related news , Hambrecht & Quist 's OTC market makers were excused from trading yesterday and its positions were frozen for the day by the National Association of Securities Dealers . 
In other trading , Medco Containment Services gained 7\/8 to 15 on 1.9 million shares after reporting a loss for the first quarter , which ended Sept. 30 . 
Jaguar 's American depositary receipts added 3\/8 to 10 3\/4 on volume of 1.1 million . 
Analysts figure Amgen could benefit as a result of troubles facing its competitor , Genetics Institute , over the anti-anemia drug EPO . 
Merieux , a vaccine manufacturer based in Lyon , France , is 51%-held by French state-owned Rhone-Poulenc S.A . 
Ciba-Geigy is a major pharmaceutical concern based in Basel , Switzerland . 
Ciba-Geigy is a major pharmaceutical concern based in Basel , Switzerland . Chiron , another pharmaceutical concern , is based in Emeryville , Calif . 
Institut Merieux 's bid for Toronto-based Connaught has run into problems with the Canadian government , which told Merieux last week that it was n't convinced that the proposed acquisition would be of `` net benefit '' to Canada . 
As a result , he took the lead in arguing that the cut should be blocked on procedural grounds . 
He helped persuade 10 of these senators to support him and Majority Leader George Mitchell on these grounds . 
Denied a vote on substance , the GOP leadership in the Senate on Friday morning was confronted with a hard choice . 
The U.S. Chamber of Commerce has been in the forefront in supporting the Bush proposal . 
Two hours later , the first word emerged on Capitol Hill that the administration had agreed to reconciliation with no such assurances from Senate Democrats . 
The stock market reacted as Mr. Rahn did , crumbling as it absorbed the news that Mr. Darman 's strategy had been abandoned . 
The total value of privately held assets is easily more than $ 15 trillion . 
A 30 % cut in this year 's capital gains alone amounts to roughly $ 50 billion . 
When Richard Rahn advised the financial press that the market crash was caused by the setback to capital gains , he was generally ignored and mildly ridiculed . Instead , the press corps readily accepted the notion that a snag in the takeover financing of United Airlines instantly knocked 7 % off the value of the nation 's capital stock and caused convulsions around the world . 
For one thing , quite a number of the leading spokesmen on Wall Street are not portfolio managers , who understand that the value of assets is greatly affected by how government taxes those assets . 
Yet they somehow think that Wall Street is indifferent to losing the tax cut that seemed so close Friday morning and is now problematic . 
Sen. Bradley 's argument is that a capital-gains tax cut would be bad for the economy in the longer run . 
That is , with capital gains cut , the glue of the 1986 accord will be gone , and political realities will push up income-tax rates . 
The counter-argument , which he has heard , is that if he and his fellow Democrats are successful in killing the president 's proposal , the revenue gap will open up tremendously in 1990 because of the weakened economy . 
If Sen. Bradley would permit a vote on capital gains , though , it would pass , Christmas retail sales would be strong instead of burdened by a falling stock market , the 1990 economy would be robust , and the revenue gains at every level of government , including New Jersey 's , would be surprisingly high . 
The struggle over capital gains is the most important game in town . 
Proceeds from the bonds , with coupon rates in the 8 % range , will be used to replace bonds with an average interest rate of 13.1 % . 
The Tennessee Valley Authority issued $ 4 billion in bonds in the federal utility 's first public debt offering in 15 years . Proceeds from the bonds , with coupon rates in the 8 % range , will be used to replace bonds with an average interest rate of 13.1 % . The TVA said the refinancing should save $ 75 million a year in interest payments . The refinancing is part of the TVA 's strategy of dealing with what has been an intractable problem : its staggering $ 18.5 billion debt , most of which is owed to the Treasury Department 's Federal Financing Bank . 
The TVA , in fact , decided to proceed with the bond offering following an agreement last week with the Financing Bank , which allows TVA to keep borrowing short term from the bank for two years after it goes to the public market . 
Mr. Templeton owns shares in several of the 33 funds that his firm manages , but only in three of the 10 available to U.S. investors , according to filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission . 
He bought at share prices ranging from $ 9.375 to $ 9.625 . 
The executives , who got $ 30.88 a share for the stock , showed good timing . 
On Sept. 6 , Robert Joseph Sherry , the firm 's senior vice president of employee and public relations , sold 4,000 shares , leaving himself with 1,062 shares of James River . 
Cincinnati Gas & Electric Co. tops the companies portion of the accompanying Insider Trading table this week . 
The largest purchase was by Dudley Taft , who bought 4,400 shares for $ 125,075 . 
Mr. Taft , who is also president of Taft Broadcasting Co. , said he bought the shares because he keeps a utility account at the brokerage firm of Salomon Brothers Inc. , which had recommended the stock as a good buy . 
The two could n't be reached for comment . 
A company spokesman said he could n't explain their sudden bullishness . 
Glenn and Sharon Beebe of Cincinnati had sued the com - pany in 1981 after installing Burlington carpets in their office . 
The Beebes alleged that toxic fumes from the carpets made them sick . 
Anthony J. Iaciofano , a lawyer for Burlington , said the company believes the Beebes ' symptoms were not related to the carpeting . 
Catherine Adams , the Beebes ' lawyer , said the verdict would not discourage other plaintiffs from filing such suits . 
State officials said the court 's ruling clears the way for proceedings to condemn buildings in the area . 
But developers of four planned office towers cautioned that obstacles still remain . 
Judge Weinstein also ruled that judges must consider prior to extradition whether the defendant will be treated fairly in a foreign court . 
To do so , the judge said , the U.S. courts must review the judicial process in the foreign country independently of the State Department 's assessment . 
FORMER CANADIAN AMBASSADOR to the U.S. Allan E. Gotlieb has joined the Philadelphia law firm of Pepper , Hamilton & Scheetz as a consultant . 
In a speech prepared for delivery in New York yesterday , retired Justice Lewis Powell contested the notion that the last Supreme Court term marked a turn toward conservatism : `` Commentators who agreed on little else unanimously proclaimed a ` shift in direction ' on the court ... . 
I take these pronouncements , like many that have preceded them in past years , with a grain of salt . 
The Arab states , always bitterly resentful of U.S. support toward Israel , realized they held an irresistable weapon -- oil . 
Early in October , six Arab nations in the Persian Gulf jacked up prices sharply . 
The Arabs had tried embargos before . 
In 1956 , when Britain , France and Israel invaded Egypt to seize the Suez Canal , Arab producers cut off supplies to Europe . 
But Middle East supplies were growing in importance . 
Politics and economics conspired . 
Japan and Europe , far more dependent on Mideast oil than the U.S. , would n't offend the Arabs or trade off their precious supplies . 
The U.S. did manage to supply the Dutch with oil by relabeling supplies 
`` Shortage '' and `` crisis '' became buzz words , although neither really applied . 
The embargo lasted only six months , but the price hikes became a fact of life . 
At Bear Stearns Cos. , for example , the 15 executive officers led by Chairman Alan `` Ace '' Greenberg got a pay increase to $ 35.9 million for the 14-month period ended June 30 from $ 22.9 million for the 12 months ended April 30 , 1988 . 
Because it operates on a fiscal year , Bear Stearns 's yearly filings are available much earlier than those of other firms . 
William J. Montgoris , chief financial officer , defended the lofty salaries at Bear Stearns . 
According to the proxy statement , James E. Cayne , 55 , Bear Stearns 's president , made $ 3.9 million 
Mr. Montgoris said the firm has a `` straight mathematical formula '' for determining compensation , based on the firm 's earnings . 
Mr. Craven said both Messrs. Eward and Whittington had planned to leave the bank earlier , but Mr. Craven had persuaded them to remain until the bank was in a healthy position . 
`` If there 's any coincidence about the departures it 's that they are leaving at a time when the business is in reasonably good shape and going forward very well . '' 
The first part , consisting of $ 2 billion of bonds due Oct. 1 , 2019 , with a five-year non-call provision , was priced as 8 3\/4 % securities at 96.808 to yield 9.06 % . 
The second part , consisting of $ 1 billion of noncallable bonds due Oct. 1 , 1999 , was priced as 8 3\/8 % securities at 99.691 to yield 8.42 % . 
The third part , consisting of $ 1 billion of noncallable bonds due Oct. 1 , 1994 , was priced as 8 1\/4 % securities at 99.672 to yield 8.33 % . 
Par also said it was advised by the U.S. attorney for Maryland that it is one of a number of companies being investigated by a federal grand jury for alleged violations of the federal Food , Drug and Cosmetic Act . 
The spokesman said he also understood that the inquiry related to the existence of an `` off-the-record '' production book . 
Mr. Patel resigned as senior vice president of Par in April . 
Par said it selected him for the posts of president and chief executive on a permanent basis because of his experience in the industry and his performance at Par . 
Just after midnight Monday , federal spending started to drop by $ 16 billion . 
Under the law , Gramm-Rudman 's across-the-board-cuts in federal programs are supposed to be permanent . 
`` There is some feeling here that the cuts are the way to go . 
It will reduce spending in a very effective fashion . '' 
This attitude is being waved away by sophisticates around Washington as little more than tough talk . 
It looks to us like a golden opportunity for George Bush to chop off at the knees all this talk about a timid , unserious presidency . 
Mr. Bush would be acting in the public interest if he let the Washington elites who manipulate these budgets -- the bureaucrats , the lobbyists , the congressional staffers -- live for just one year on a restricted diet . 
Ask Tommy Lasorda ; thin is in . 
Senator Phil Gramm pointed out Monday that in the 20 years before Gramm-Rudman was enacted in 1985 , federal spending grew by about 11 % a year 
Senator Phil Gramm pointed out Monday that in the 20 years before Gramm-Rudman was enacted in 1985 , federal spending grew by about 11 % a year ; since the law , it 's grown at under 5 % annually . 
George Bush 's continued support of the tax dam sustains this strategy of pressuring Congress to make choices among competing priorities , rather than just saying yes to all the grateful special-interest constituencies that fill the PAC trough . 
Child care was one of the many `` extraneous '' bills pulled out of the Senate 's reconciliation bill last Friday . 
All this stuff still is in the House 's 1,878-page reconciliation bill , and many Members say they 're reluctant to pull out cherished bills , just to see them die . 
House Speaker Foley ought to deliver that promise . 
We have as much nostalgia as anyone for those leafy , breezy days in Washington when honorable men and women dickered over budgets and even log-rolled a bit to see that the bridges got build , roads paved , soldiers paid or that the desperately poor were cared for . 
The $ 475,000 sale price earlier this month was the lowest in nearly three years . 
In London , stocks closed lower in volatile trading as an opening rally was obliterated by worse-than-expected U.S. trade figures . 
Tokyo 's Nikkei Index of 225 stocks jumped 527.39 points to close at 34996.08 . 
Japanese domestic institutions , including trust banks and investment management firms , that had been on the sidelines during Monday 's fall were back in the market , analysts said . 
`` This time we do n't really have to worry about Tokyo , '' said an official at Daiwa Securities Co . 
`` People are placing small bets . 
There 's no huge buying , '' said Stephen Hill , head of equity sales at Jardine Fleming Securities Ltd. in Tokyo . 
Among steel shares , NKK rose 19 to 705 yen -LRB- $ 4.97 -RRB- a share , and Nippon Steel gained 17 to 735 . 
Construction shares that gained included Shimizu , which rose 130 to 2,080 . 
London 's Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100-share index fell 27.9 points to 2135.5 . 
It was down more than 40 points a half-hour before the close , marking a 61.5-point turnaround from its high , reached in the first 15 minutes of trading . 
But the advance faltered as index-options traders and investors jittery about the U.K. economic outlook took over . 
Michael Hicks , who manages sales and trading for brokerage concern Societe Generale Strauss Turnbull , said : `` It 's a nervous market . 
It was all over the place . 
If you bought , you wish you had n't , and if you sold , you wish you had n't . '' 
He said the current market `` is all about sentiment , and the sentiment in London is 90 % anxiety and worry . '' 
Merchant banks were stronger across the board . 
Morgan Grenfell , which has been mentioned in takeover rumors , rose 20 to 392 pence -LRB- $ 6.18 -RRB- a share . 
Morgan Grenfell , which has been mentioned in takeover rumors , rose 20 to 392 pence -LRB- $ 6.18 -RRB- a share . S.G. Warburg , a rumored target of some European banking concerns , finished 22 higher at 400 . 
On the corporate front , Ford Motor announced that it raised its stake in U.K. luxury car maker Jaguar to 10.4 % from 5 % . 
Amstrad , a British computer hardware and communications equipment maker , eased 4 to 47 . 
Brewery stocks were firm to higher on talk of early bargain-hunting , but most ended below their peaks . 
Bass ended up 3 higher at 966 , Guinness closed at 589 , down 7 , and Scottish & Newcastle dropped 11 to 359 , but Whitbread Class A shares rose 17 to 363 . 
The most active shares were major blue-chips , particularly oils and utilities such as British Gas and British Telecommunications . 
British Gas finished at 197 , down 2 , on 13 million shares , British Petroleum fell 8 to 291 on 9.4 million shares , and British Telecom was 4 lower at 261 on turnover of 10 million shares . 
Also in active trading , British Steel fell 1 to 124 as 20 million shares changed hands . 
In other European markets , share prices closed sharply higher in Frankfurt and Zurich and posted moderate rises in Stockholm , Amsterdam and Milan . 
Elsewhere , share prices rebounded in Hong Kong , Sydney , Singapore , Wellington , Taipei , Manila and Seoul . 
THE STOCK of Applied Power Inc. , which split 2-for-1 in May , has risen since August 1988 . 
The solution , at least for some investors , may be a hedging technique that 's well known to players in the stock-options market . 
It 's like `` fire insurance , '' says Harrison Roth , the senior options strategist at Cowen & Co . 
But most investment advisers do n't recommend using married puts all the time . 
`` This is the type of fire insurance you only buy when the nearby woods are on fire , '' says Mr. Roth . 
In addition to hedging new stock purchases , the married-put technique can be used to protect stocks that an investor already owns . 
-- If the stock goes up in price between now and the put 's expiration date , the put will probably expire worthless . 
-- If the stock stays at the same price between now and the put 's expiration date , the investor 's loss will be limited to the cost of the put , less any amount realized from a closing sale of the put . 
-- If the price of the stock declines , the put will increase in value . 
For example , Tenneco Inc. pays a quarterly dividend of 76 cents , which would be received before the February option expires and , thus , reduce the cost of using the technique by that amount . 
Selling a call option gives an investor a small buffer against a stock-market decline . 
But the effort became snagged on the question of what would become of other issues , ranging from cutting the capital-gains tax to child care to repeal of catastrophic-illness insurance . 
`` Many members feel there are important features of the House bill that should be enacted , '' Speaker Thomas Foley -LRB- D. , Wash . -RRB- said . 
`` You 've got to give these chairmen the opportunity to see if they can work things out , '' said House Budget Committee Chairman Leon Panetta -LRB- D. , Calif . -RRB- . 
TRADING VOLUME in Standard & Poor 's 500 stock-index futures contracts on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange Monday totaled 73,803 contracts . 
NCNB Corp. raised $ 1 billion in new capital during the third quarter . 
One unit , called the Escort , uses a new digital signal-processing technology to detect radar signals much sooner than was previously possible , the company said . 
The merchandise trade deficit widened in August to $ 10.77 billion , the Commerce Department reported , a sharp deterioration from July 's $ 8.24 billion and the largest deficit of any month this year . 
`` This is one of the worst trade releases we 've had since the dollar troughed out in 1987 , '' said Geoffrey Dennis , chief international economist at James Capel Inc . 
The number had a troubling effect on Wall Street , suggesting that more fundamental economic problems may underlie last Friday 's stock market slide . 
`` This bad trade number raises some deeper issues about the market decline , '' said Norman Robertson , chief economist for Mellon Bank . 
The trade report drew yet another unsettling parallel to October 1987 . 
On Oct. 14 of that year , the announcement of an unusually large August trade deficit helped trigger a steep market decline . 
The bleak trade report was played down by the Bush administration . 
`` The figures today add further evidence to support the view that the improvement in the U.S. trade deficit has essentially stalled out at a level of about a $ 110 billion annual rate , '' said Jeffrey Scott , a research fellow at the Institute for International Economics here . 
Many economists contend that deep cuts in the U.S. budget deficit are needed before further trade improvement can occur . 
In addition , the rise in the value of the dollar against foreign currencies over the past several months has increased the price of U.S. products in overseas markets and hurt the country 's competitiveness . 
August 's decline in exports reflected decreases in sales of industrial supplies , capital goods and food abroad and increases in sales of motor vehicles , parts and engines . 
Universities can now buy a Next computer without an optical storage device for $ 4,995 . 
Mr. Jobs said the changes were prompted by requests from customers who are frustrated with the performance of the optical device , which is n't offered as standard equipment by any rivals . 
Next 's decision to rely on the more-established hard drive in every Next computer does n't signal a retreat from optical storage , said Mr. Jobs , who for years has said this technology will play a crucial role in the next decade . 
`` We 're extremely committed to optical storage technology '' he said . 
Universities , however , say Next 's prices must go even lower before large numbers of students purchase the machine . 
Broad acceptance of Next 's computer also is hindered by difficulty in distributing software for it . 
Next 's computer also needs more software applications , but Mr. Jobs said he expects more soon . 
Educators added that Next needs to soon offer a color version of its computer . 
Ashton-Tate Corp. reported a net loss of $ 19.4 million , or 74 cents a share , for the third quarter , which was burdened by severance costs and the expense of upgrading its database software inventories . The software company said revenue slid 28 % to $ 53.9 million . 
For the nine months , Ashton-Tate had a loss of $ 27.6 million , or $ 1.05 a share . 
Edward M. Esber , chairman , president and chief executive officer , attributed the decline to reduced domestic revenue because of $ 4.9 million spent to upgrade existing software inventories to the new database IV Version 1.1 , and $ 1.8 million spent on the recent reduction in work force . 
`` The loss is in line with our expectations , '' said John C. Maxwell III , an analyst with Dillon , Read & Co. in New York . 
And while the company has n't made a definite statement , it now looks like that 's not going to be anytime soon , '' Mr. Maxwell said . 
Mr. Maxwell said unless the company can start shipments of the new product sometime this quarter , the fourth-quarter loss is likely to be `` comparable to the third quarter 's . '' 
These rate indications are n't directly comparable 
Ethyl Corp. reported that third-quarter net income fell 12 % from a year-earlier quarter helped by a gain from discontinued operations . 
The chemicals and insurance company said net in the latest quarter was $ 54.8 million , or 45 cents a share . 
Ethyl said pretax profit from its insurance segment , excluding investment gains , rose 28 % in the latest quarter to $ 28.6 million from $ 22.4 million . 
Net in the latest period included $ 11.9 million from discontinued operations and a charge of $ 6.2 million from a plant closing . 
Per-share figures this year reflect $ 6.8 million in preferred-share dividends 
Nine-month net climbed 19 % to $ 174.8 million , or $ 2.21 a primary share , from $ 147.5 million , or $ 1.94 a share . 
Enserch said the tendered units will raise its ownership of the partnership to more than 99 % from 87 % . 
In a management restructuring , Thomas L. Ringer resigned as chairman , chief executive and a director , while Israel Sheinberg resigned as a director . 
Mr. Hurley was formerly a vice president and general manager of an Avery International division 
Prospect , a New York-based leveraged buy-out firm , also agreed to invest $ 15 million in Recognition , which in turn agreed to repurchase as much as $ 20 million of its stock . 
The company attributed the loss to declining revenue and litigation costs relating to criminal charges against the company and two former executives , William G. Moore Jr. and Robert W. Reedy . 
In New York Stock Exchange composite trading , Recognition rose 87.5 cents to $ 6.625 . 
I approached `` Mastergate , '' Larry Gelbart 's new comedy at the Criterion Center , with considerable trepidation . 
I had underestimated , however , both Mr. Gelbart 's wit and the persistence of scandal in Washington . 
Onstage , a congressional hearing is in progress , complete with elegant crystal chandelier overhead and a lifesize reproduction of the signing of the Constitution in the background . 
The witness table is center stage and below it , the paraphernalia for the ever-present media , in this case TNN , the Total News Network . 
The metaphor of theater is not entirely coincidental . 
The man , it seems , has a Lichtenstein corporation , licensed in Libya and sheltered in the Bahamas . 
The lowly agent , Abel Lamb , who as you might guess , is being led to the slaughter , is ordered to take over the studio . 
Soon the studio is producing a $ 40 million picture called `` Tet , the Motion Picture , '' to distinguish it from `` Tet , the Offensive , '' as well as `` Tet , the Book '' and `` Tet , the Album . '' 
Director Michael Engler has assembled a top-flight cast to carry out the impersonations of well-known political figures and to play the stock characters who invariably show up at congressional hearings . 
Daniel von Bargen is ramrod-stiff but totally assured as Major Battle , mixing just the right brand of self-righteousness and patriotism 
Daniel von Bargen is ramrod-stiff but totally assured as Major Battle , mixing just the right brand of self-righteousness and patriotism ; Jeff Weiss is fire , brimstone and teary-eyed emotionalism as the far-right senator who serves as a friendly interrogator of Major Battle 
Daniel von Bargen is ramrod-stiff but totally assured as Major Battle , mixing just the right brand of self-righteousness and patriotism ; Jeff Weiss is fire , brimstone and teary-eyed emotionalism as the far-right senator who serves as a friendly interrogator of Major Battle ; Zach Grenier is maddeningly officious playing a succession of lawyers 
Daniel von Bargen is ramrod-stiff but totally assured as Major Battle , mixing just the right brand of self-righteousness and patriotism ; Jeff Weiss is fire , brimstone and teary-eyed emotionalism as the far-right senator who serves as a friendly interrogator of Major Battle ; Zach Grenier is maddeningly officious playing a succession of lawyers ; Joseph Daly has the perfect `` aw , shucks '' demeanor of George Bush in his portrayal of the vice president ; and Ann McDonough is first-rate as a succession of witnesses ' wives . 
Mr. Gelbart also has fun with language . 
`` Mastergate '' is subtitled `` a play on words , '' and Mr. Gelbart plays that game as well as anyone . 
This interest in words goes beyond puns and playfulness , however . 
Mr. Gelbart deplores the obfuscation , the circumlocution and the debasement of language he sees on all sides . 
As the hearings begin , the self-important Sen. Bowman -LRB- Jerome Kilty -RRB- announces : `` Let me emphaticize one thing at the outset : We are not looking for hides to skin nor goats to scape . '' 
Major Battle himself speaks in pure Pentagonese : `` Without further monetary-stroke-military aid , scores of Ambiguan freedom lovers , who had gone way out on their life and limbs for us , were literally cut off at the knees without a paddle . '' 
Most of the evening , though , is filled with rare and welcome wit . 
In an interview , he said Fannie Mae faces a number of challenges with the restructuring of the thrift industry and the push to broaden its activities overseas . 
Then the Gutfreunds determined to put up a 22-foot Christmas tree , weighing a quarter of a ton , to amaze their holiday guests . 
For this , a crane needed to be mounted on the Postels ' terrace . 
Before the Gutfreunds finally left this unfriendly environment for a prodigious duplex on Fifth Avenue and an 18th-century mansion with a specially excavated $ 1 million garage in Paris , the Postels had obtained an injunction to prevent any future hoisting of trees , and in a neighborly spirit hit both the Gutfreunds and the building with a $ 35 million lawsuit . 
The young John Gutfreund had been discovered by Billy Salomon of Salomon Bros. when he was still a bearded liberal , and put to work as a trader , and then as a rough-and-tumble syndicator . 
`` ` Get off your ... , ' he would bellow , '' say the authors . 
Limited partner Billy Salomon , whose family name had been on the firm 's door for 70 years and who had hoped it would be there forever , was not consulted . 
Mr. Gutfreund collected $ 32 million , while Billy Salomon got $ 10 million , much less than if he had conducted the sale . 
`` I felt betrayed , '' he later said . 
Worse , Salomon 's timing had been off . 
The book also recounts the not dissimilar maneuvers surrounding the changing of the guard at Lehman Bros. and other grand old firms . 
The earlier generation of `` our crowd '' bankers -- Belmonts , Warburgs , Lehmans , Baches and Schiffs -- had stressed above all probity , tradition , continuity and reputation . 
The old guard had every right , however , to disdain the newcomers ' new ways of making money , such as greenmail . 
Their other staple has been corporate takeovers , often hostile and financed by junk bonds . 
First , by making management focus on short-term results , they inhibit building for the future -- just the opposite of Japan . 
Second , a long-term shareholder of a good company need n't worry too much when the stock price drops temporarily 
The raiders , meanwhile , have evolved their own pattern for spending their new millions . 
As described in `` The New Crowd , '' they take on ambitious new wives , move to Greenwich , Conn. , or Bedford , N.Y. , buy OK pictures , and let their wives share the wealth with decorators . 
However , on balance , the charity game helps America . 
The book is patronizing about this nouveau riche struggle for respectability , which has its tawdry aspects . However , on balance , the charity game helps America . If those who have the money do n't get involved with the museums and the charities , then City Hall will do it , badly . 
A handful of the New Crowd operators have crossed the line from the immoral to the illegal , and have ended up in the slammer or paying huge fines : Ivan Boesky , Dennis Levine , Martin Siegel , Victor and Steven Posner , and now Michael Milken and perhaps Leona Helmsley . 
However , the phenomenon is not specifically Jewish . 
It has always been true that those outside the club want to climb in , and that a few will cut corners in the process . 
Some pretty seamy stuff built the turn-of-the-century families ' Fifth Avenue and Newport palazzi and endowed their daughters ' weddings to foreign noblemen . 
Valhi Inc. , another of Mr. Simmons ' companies , responded to an article Monday in The Wall Street Journal , which credited a story in the Sunday Los Angeles Daily News . 
Industries in both countries have requested a speedup of tariff cuts on hundreds of products . 
Some tariffs were eliminated when the trade pact took effect Jan. 1 . 
The U.S. Commerce Department is planning to try out similar trips on U.S. businessmen in coming months under its Canada First ! Outreach Program . 
The Canadian government also has recently opened new trade offices in San Diego ; San Juan , Puerto Rico ; Miami ; Princeton , N.J. , and Denver , bringing the total number of such Canadian offices in the U.S. to 27 . 
The defense electronics maker said delivery will begin in October 1991 and run through mid-1995 . 
Apogee Robotics Inc. said its board extended until Feb. 1 the exercise period of Apogee 's existing stock purchase warrants outstanding . 
Each of the 1,075,000 warrants entitle the holders to purchase one share of Apogee common stock for $ 2.25 . 
Among its restructuring measures , the company said it plans to sell 53 of its 453 branch offices and to lay off 800 employees . 
Walter Connolly , chairman , said in an interview that the company expects to record pretax gains of $ 100 million to $ 125 million from the sale of its leasing operations and of certain financial processing services . 
Nonperforming assets continued to pile up in the latest quarter , rising to $ 900 million , or 3.52 % of loans and leases , from $ 667 million , or 2.68 % , at the end of the second quarter . 
Mr. Driscoll said that , despite continued weakness in the region 's real estate market , Bank of New England expects the rate of increase in nonperforming assets to slow in coming quarters . 
The company increased its loan loss reserve to $ 354 million from $ 342 million at the end of the second quarter . 
Among other restructuring measures , the bank said it will close its loan production offices in Chicago , New York and Philadelphia . 
August imports claimed 18.5 % of the U.S. market , compared with 19.3 % in July and 20.5 % in August 1988 . 
The latest month 's figures show that imports of steel from European Community nations fell to 466,000 tons from 481,000 a month earlier , while imports from Japan rose to 323,000 tons from 288,000 in July . 
The American Institute for Imported Steel said imports for the first eight months of 1989 were below the level allowed by the Voluntary Restraint Agreement program . 
It can happen in any industry . 
Like thousands of salespeople before them , Wang 's are finding ways to combat the bad news . 
Salespeople try to push their products and avoid discussions of finances . 
At one sales strategy meeting , an executive suggested ordering salespeople to become experts on the annual report . 
Mr. Miller vetoed that 
Mike Metschan , a salesman in Wang 's Austin , Texas , office , has a breezier method 
Mike Metschan , a salesman in Wang 's Austin , Texas , office , has a breezier method : `` We tell them $ 3 billion companies do n't go out of business . 
We tell them all the major companies are having financial difficulties . '' 
Mr. Miller says that after a sharp sales slump in July and August , sales stabilized in September . 
Experts on sales technique say anyone representing a troubled company must walk a fine line . 
Still , says John Sullivan , a management recruiter with Daniel Roberts Inc. of Boston , who has held senior sales positions at Polaroid and Atari : `` The customer will react to strength . 
Ignore the present condition . 
That is n't easy . 
Wang 's overall product line is `` still not as good as other vendors , but they 've come a long way , '' says Steven Wendler , a consultant with market researcher Gartner Group , Stamford , Conn . 
The first priority for Wang 's sales force is to make sure it holds on to existing customers . 
New customers , the source of higher commissions for salespeople and the key to Wang 's long-term viability , are even tougher . 
The financial problems are particularly frustrating for salespeople pushing Wang 's image systems , which convert paper forms to electronic documents . 
But salespeople often found that news of Wang 's problems superseded their sales efforts . 
William Tait , a former sales manager in Indianapolis , says that his office had all but sold a $ 1.5 million image system to pharmaceutical maker Eli Lilly & Co . 
`` When they were making the decision , all hell broke loose with the finances . '' 
Mr. Tait say he does n't blame Lilly . 
Buyers have to rely on a supplier `` continually upgrading and replacing the product , '' he says . 
It can be hard for a salesperson to fight off feelings of discouragement . 
You think you can go out and turn things around . 
It 's a tough thing when you ca n't . 
Discouragement feeds on itself . 
Paul Hellman , a Framingham , Mass. , sales and management consultant and author of `` Ready , Aim , You 're Hired , '' says : `` The bad news is , you 'll be rejected more . 
But Mr. Miller , Wang 's new president , recently warned his salespeople about negativism . 
`` Our customers watch us for the hidden message , '' he said . 
`` The parent company is diversifying into other industries around the world , '' said president Meyer Blinder in explaining the name change . 
`` Everytime we talked about Blinder International , -LCB- people -RCB- thought it was the brokerage house . '' 
Net was $ 24 million , or $ 1.15 a share , up from $ 19 million , or 90 cents a share , a year earlier . 
The chemical segment had a $ 6 million gain on the sale of ammonia and urea businesses , which was offset by a $ 6 million charge for future environmental expenditures . 
Profit in Olin 's defense and ammunition segment rose to $ 8 million from $ 7 million . 
In the first nine months , net rose 21 % to $ 93 million , or $ 4.52 a share , from $ 77 million , or $ 3.62 a share a year ago . 
GTE Corp. and MCI Communications Corp. reported strong earnings gains to record levels for the third quarter . 
The company said the quarter included a 10 % increase in local-exchange usage for long-distance calling and a 5 % increase in the number of access lines in service . 
Earlier rate reductions in Texas and California reduced the quarter 's revenue and operating profit $ 55 million 
Revenue in the telecommunications products and services unit rose 27 % to $ 728.8 million , but operating profit was unchanged at $ 26.3 million , partly because of start-up expenses . 
Electrical products ' sales fell to $ 496.7 million from $ 504.5 million with higher world-wide lighting volume offset by lower domestic prices and the impact of weaker currencies in Europe and South America . 
MCI , which stepped up efforts to sell long-distance telephone service to residential customers , reported a 59 % jump in earnings . 
Operating profit grew 57 % to $ 269 million from $ 171 million , while operating margins rose to 16.1 % from 15.9 % the previous quarter and 12.6 % a year ago . 
Daniel Akerson , MCI chief financial officer , said the company sees further improvements in operating margins . 
In national over-the-counter trading , MCI fell $ 2.625 to $ 42.375 . 
MCI claims about 12 % of the overall long-distance telephone market but just under 10 % of the $ 23 billion residential market . 
It has been trying to improve its share of the residential market . 
Mr. Akerson said MCI recorded `` another solid cash positive quarter , '' its fourth in a row , but declined to comment on whether the company is considering a dividend or is planning any acquisition . 
The current quarter , he said , `` looks fine . 
Cincinnati Bell Inc. said net declined 1.8 % . 
Revenue jumped nearly 17 % to $ 223.3 million from $ 191.4 million . 
Frank Carlucci III was named to this telecommunications company 's board , filling the vacancy created by the death of William Sobey last May . 
In addition to his previous real-estate investment and asset-management duties , Mr. Meador takes responsibility for development and property management . 
A year earlier , the savings bank had earnings of $ 8.1 million , or 33 cents a share . 
Great American said it increased its loan-loss reserves by $ 93 million after reviewing its loan portfolio , raising its total loan and real estate reserves to $ 217 million . 
Arbitragers were n't the only big losers in the collapse of UAL Corp. stock . 
When bank financing for the buy-out collapsed last week , so did UAL 's stock . 
Mr. Wolf owns 75,000 UAL shares and has options to buy another 250,000 at $ 83.3125 each . 
In the $ 300-a-share buyout , that totaled about $ 76.7 million . 
Of course , Mr. Wolf , 48 years old , has some savings . 
He left his last two jobs at Republic Airlines and Flying Tiger with combined stock-option gains of about $ 22 million , and UAL gave him a $ 15 million bonus when it hired him . 
The 40-year old Mr. Pope has n't changed jobs enough -- at least the right ones -- to stash away that kind of money . 
United 's directors voted themselves , and their spouses , lifetime access to the Friendly Skies -- free first-class travel , and $ 20,000 a year for life as well . 
Merck & Co. reported a 25 % increase in earnings 
Merck & Co. reported a 25 % increase in earnings ; Warner-Lambert Co. 's profit rose 22 % and Eli Lilly & Co. 's net income rose 24 % . 
Merck , Rahway , N.J. , continued to lead the industry with a strong sales performance in the human and animal health-products segment . 
A stronger U.S. dollar reduced third-quarter and first-nine-month sales growth 2 % and 3 % , respectively . 
Mevacor , Merck 's new cholesterol-lowering drug , had higher sales than any other prescription medicine has ever achieved in the U.S. in the year following introduction , the company said . 
Warner-Lambert , Morris Plains , N.J. , reported sales that were a record for any quarter and the eighth quarter in a row of 20 % or more per-share earnings growth . 
Spurred by growth in world-wide sales of the company 's prescription drugs , Warner-Lambert said 1989 will be the best year in its history , with per-share earnings expected to increase more than 20 % to about $ 6.10 . 
Prescription-drug world-wide sales rose 9 % in the quarter to $ 340 million 
Prescription-drug world-wide sales rose 9 % in the quarter to $ 340 million ; U.S. sales rose 15 % . 
World-wide sales of Warner-Lambert 's non-prescription health-care products , such as Halls cough tablets , Rolaids antacid , and Lubriderm skin lotion , increased 3 % to $ 362 million in the third quarter 
Confectionery products sales also had strong growth in the quarter . 
Third-quarter sales of the Indianapolis , Ind. , company rose 11 % to $ 1.045 billion from $ 940.6 million . 
Sales of Prozac , an anti-depressant , led drug-sales increases . 
Reuben Mark , chairman of Colgate-Palmolive Co. , said he is `` comfortable '' with analysts ' estimates that third-quarter earnings rose to between 95 cents and $ 1.05 a share . 
That compares with per-share earnings from continuing operations of 69 cents the year earlier 
The per-share estimates mean the consumer-products company 's net income , increased to between $ 69.5 million and $ 76 million , from $ 47.1 million the year-before period . 
Operating profit at Colgate 's U.S. household products and personal-care businesses jumped 25 % in the quarter , Mr. Mark added . 
The estimated improvement in Colgate 's U.S. operations took some analysts by surprise . 
Mr. Mark conceded that Colgate 's domestic business , apart from its highly profitable Hill 's Pet Products unit , has lagged . 
`` We 've done a lot to improve -LCB- U.S. . -RCB- results , and a lot more will be done , '' Mr. Mark said . 
Beantown scribes , who spare no invective when taking on local luminaries such as Michael `` Pee Wee '' Dukakis , or New England Patriots Coach Raymond `` Rev. Ray '' Berry , yesterday poured ridicule on new drawings of Globe columnists that replaced old photos in the revamped pages this week . 
Trouble was , nobody thought they looked right . 
Globe columnist Mike Barnicle -- in the second attack on his employer in as many weeks -- averred that his shadowy countenance was so bad , it looked `` like a face you 'd find on a bottle of miracle elixir that promises to do away with diarrhea in our lifetime . '' 
`` I thought -LCB- the drawing -RCB- a cross between someone you 'd spot whipping open his trench coat ... or a guy who boasted he 'd been Charles Manson 's roommate for the last 19 years , '' he said . 
`` But think of the money you , the reader , will save on Halloween , '' said Mr. Barnicle . 
Deeply ingrained in both the book review `` Kissing Nature Good-bye '' by Stephen MacDonald -LRB- Leisure & Arts , Sept. 27 -RRB- and the books reviewed is the assumption that global warming is entirely a result of human activity . 
About 20,000 years ago the last ice age ended . 
Furthermore , no bell has yet rung to announce the end of this immense episode of natural global warming . 
`` You 're telling someone they can spend the next three or four or five or six years of their life bringing about the most difficult and costly modernization of an information system on the civil side ever , '' Mr. Goldberg said . 
The rebel officer 's slow and painful death , at the headquarters of Panama 's Battalion-2000 squad , was personally supervised by Gen. Noriega , says a U.S. official with access to intelligence reports . 
He is now changing the place he sleeps every night , sometimes more than once a night . 
And he is collecting the names of those who telephoned the coup-makers to congratulate them during their brief time in control of his headquarters . 
Yet , while the failed coup is a major U.S. foreign policy embarrassment , it is merely the latest chapter in a byzantine relationship between Mr. Noriega and Washington that stretches back three decades . 
America 's war on the dictator over the past two years , following his indictment on drug charges in February 1988 , is the legacy of that relationship . 
In 1960 , for example , when Mr. Noriega was both a cadet at an elite military academy in Peru and a spy-in-training for the U.S. Defense Intelligence Agency , he was detained by Lima authorities for allegedly raping and savagely beating a prostitute , according to a U.S. Embassy cable from that period . 
But U.S. intelligence , rather than rein in or cut loose its new spy , merely filed the report away . 
Mr. Noriega 's tips on emerging leftists at his school were deemed more important to U.S. interests . But U.S. intelligence , rather than rein in or cut loose its new spy , merely filed the report away . 
The U.S. has befriended and later turned against many dictators , but none quite so resourceful . 
`` The U.S. underestimated Noriega all along , '' says Ambler Moss , a former Ambassador to Panama . 
In keeping with America 's long history of propping up Mr. Noriega , recent U.S. actions have extended rather than shortened his survival . 
Perhaps most important , Mr. Noriega 's allies have intervened to encourage -- in some cases , to demand -- that the dictator maintain his grip of the throne . 
`` He is cornered , '' says the Rev. Fernando Guardia , who has led Catholic Church opposition against Noriega . 
His chief advantage in the fight : his intimate knowledge of American ways and weaknesses . 
The U.S. discovered the young Tony Noriega in late 1959 , when he was in his second year at the Chorrillos Military Academy in Lima , according to former U.S. intelligence officials . 
The contact occurred through Mr. Noriega 's half-brother , a Panamanian diplomat based in Peru named Luis Carlos Noriega Hurtado . 
Luis Carlos , knowing that helping the Americans could advance the career of any Panamanian officer , relayed Tony 's reports on the leftist tendencies he observed among his fellow students and , more important , among his officers and instructors . 
It was a heady experience for the pockmarked and slightly built Mr. Noriega , who was known to his friends as Cara la Pina -- pineapple face . 
In his peaked military cap and neatly pressed , French-made uniform , Noriega felt more respected and powerful than ever in his underprivileged life , friends from the period say . 
Mr. Noriega 's relationship to American intelligence agencies became contractual in either 1966 or 1967 , intelligence officials say . 
His commanding officer at the Chiriqui Province garrison , Major Omar Torrijos , gave him an intriguing assignment 
United Fruit was one of the two largest contributors to Panama 's national income . 
Mr. Noriega 's initial retainer was only $ 50 to $ 100 a month , plus occasional gifts of liquor or groceries from the American PX , a former intelligence official says . 
`` He did it very well , '' recalls Boris Martinez , a former Panamanian colonel who managed Mr. Noriega and his operation . 
A National Guard job assumed by Capt. Noriega in 1964 -- as chief of the transit police in David City , capital of the Chiriqui Province -- was tailor-made for an aspiring super-spy . 
By pressuring taxi and bus drivers who needed licenses , he gained a ready cache of information . 
So he splashed the information on handbills that he distributed throughout the banana-exporting city of Puerto Armuelles , which was ruled by United Fruit Co . 
He was superb . 
During his years in Chiriqui , however , Mr. Noriega also revealed himself as an officer as perverse as he was ingenious . 
Rodrigo Miranda , a local lawyer and human-rights monitor , recalls an intoxicated Noriega visiting prisoners in their cells at the 5th Zone Garrison headquarters in David , where he had his offices . 
Mr. Noriega would order them all to take off their clothes and run around the courtyard naked , laughing at them and then retreating to his office . 
But through this period , so far as the U.S. military was concerned , Mr. Noriega was a model recruit . 
He signed up for intelligence and counter-intelligence training under American officers at Fort Gulick in Panama in July 1967 , according to a copy of a 1983 resume with details Mr. Noriega has since classified as secret . 
Some American officers interpreted his eagerness and studiousness as a sign of loyalty , but they did so falsely . 
He rose to chief of intelligence in Panama 's socalled G-2 in 1970 after providing populist dictator Torrijos the critical support to defeat a coup attempt against him a year earlier . 
He became Gen. Torrijos 's inseparable shadow , and the holder of all Panama 's secrets . 
Mr. Noriega , by now a lieutenant colonel , expanded his contacts to include the Cubans -- not to mention the Israelis , the Taiwanese and any other intelligence service that came knocking . 
`` Early on in the State Department , we took to calling him the rent-a-colonel , in tribute to his ability to simultaneously milk the antagonistic intelligence services of Cuba and the United States , '' recalls Francis J. McNeil , who , as deputy assistant secretary of state for inter-American affairs , first ran across reports about Mr. Noriega in 1977 . 
Even at this early stage , drugs caused additional concerns . 
During the Nixon administration , the Drug Enforcement Administration became dismayed at the extent of the G-2 's connections to arrested drug traffickers . 
Mr. Ingersoll later recalled that Gen. Torrijos seemed afraid to act on the concerns of the U.S. . 
Mr. Noriega became an even greater threat in 1976 , when U.S. intelligence services discovered that he had been buying recordings of electronically monitored conversations from three sergeants working for the U.S. Army 's 470th Military Intelligence Group . 
For the first time , the U.S. considered cutting Mr. Noriega from its intelligence payroll -- and the deliberations were intense , Mr. Turner says . 
`` In the world of intelligence , if you want to get information , you get it from seedy characters . 
Intelligence officials to this day worry whether Mr. Noriega sold sensitive information on the recordings to the Cubans or others . 
The U.S. soon found new cause for concern : gun-running . 
At the time , though , in 1979 , the U.S. was once again flirting with its longtime Latin American spy . 
Mr. Noriega made plans to fly to Washington for a meeting with his counterpart at the Pentagon . 
The Pentagon foiled the plan . 
According to military officers at the time , word was passed to Mr. Noriega by his American hosts that the police would be waiting . 
Prosecutors in Miami received yet another setback . 
Panamanian dictator Torrijos , he was told , had granted the shah of Iran asylum in Panama as a favor to Washington . 
Mr. Sanford was told Mr. Noriega 's friend , Mr. Wittgreen , would be handling the shah 's security . 
After prodding from Mr. Sanford , U.S. Attorney Jack Eskenazi pleaded with Justice Department officials in Washington to let the indictment proceed . 
`` I think if we had been allowed to go ahead then we would n't have the problems we have now , '' Mr. Sanford says . 
In August 1983 , Mr. Noriega took over as General and de-facto dictator of Panama , having maneuvered his way to the top only two years after the mysterious death in a plane crash of his old boss Omar Torrijos . 
Soon , the military became a veritable mafia controlling legal and illegal businesses . 
Although working for U.S. intelligence , Mr. Noriega was hardly helping the U.S. exclusively . 
During the Reagan years he expanded his business and intelligence contacts with the Cubans and the Sandinistas . 
But Mr. Noriega was convinced the Reagan White House would n't act against him , recalls his close ally Jose Blandon , because he had an insurance policy : his involvement with the Contra rebels in Nicaragua . 
Mr. Blandon says the general allowed the Contras to set up a secret training center in Panama . Mr. Noriega also conveyed intelligence from his spy operation inside the Nicaraguan capital of Managua . And on at least one occasion , in the spring of 1985 , he helped arrange a sabotage attack on a Sandinista arsenal in Nicaragua . 
Although , his help for the Contra cause was limited , it was enough to win him important protectors in the Reagan administration , says Sen. Patrick Leahy , a Vermont Democrat who then served on the Senate Intelligence Committee . 
An incident in 1984 suggested one additional means by which Mr. Noriega might have maintained such influence with Washington -- by compromising U.S. officials . 
Curtin Windsor , then the ambassador to Costa Rica , recalls being invited to Panama by Mr. Noriega 's brother Luis Carlos for a weekend of deep sea fishing and `` quiet , serious conversation '' on the Aswara Peninsula . 
`` Briggs screamed , '' Mr. Windsor recalls . 
Yet , his political setbacks mounted . 
Mr. Noriega was accused of ordering in 1985 the beheading of Hugo Spadafora , his most outspoken political opponent and the first man to publicly finger Mr. Noriega on drug trafficking charges . He then ousted President Nicholas Ardito Barletta , a former World Bank official with close ties to the U.S. , after Mr. Barletta tried to create a commission to investigate the murder . And , all the while , Panama 's debt problems continued to grow . 
In late 1986 , he made an offer he thought the U.S. could n't refuse . 
`` North , '' the document went on , referring to Oliver North , `` has told Noriega 's representative that U.S. law forbade such actions . 
Col. North conveyed the request to his superiors and to Assistant Secretary of State Elliot Abrams , who relayed it to Secretary of State George Shultz . 
The end of the marriage was at hand . 
Within weeks the unfolding Iran-Contra scandal took away Mr. Noriega 's insurance policy . 
Within weeks the unfolding Iran-Contra scandal took away Mr. Noriega 's insurance policy . The death of CIA Director William Casey and resignation of Oliver North allowed anti-Noriega political forces to gain influence . 
Within weeks the unfolding Iran-Contra scandal took away Mr. Noriega 's insurance policy . The death of CIA Director William Casey and resignation of Oliver North allowed anti-Noriega political forces to gain influence . Public protests against him were triggered in June 1987 due to charges by Diaz Herrera , his former chief of staff , that Mr. Noriega had stolen the 1984 election and had ordered the killing of Messrs. Spadafora and Torrijos . 
Now , neither side -- the U.S. nor Mr. Noriega -- has an easy out . 
President Bush has sworn to bring him to justice . 
Mr. Noriega believes he has n't any alternative but to continue clutching to power . President Bush has sworn to bring him to justice . 
`` For short-term gains , people were willing to put up with him . 
`` For short-term gains , people were willing to put up with him . That allowed him to get stronger and stronger , '' he says . 
The new reports of sluggishness , which were foreshadowed by an earlier Labor Department report that manufacturing payrolls dropped by 105,000 in September , give the Fed another reason to further ease its grip on credit and lower interest rates . 
Measures of manufacturing activity fell more than the overall measures . 
Factory output dropped 0.2 % , its first decline since February , after having been unchanged in October . 
Output of business equipment was unchanged in September . 
Some economists expect further declines in investment spending . 
A decline in truck production more than offset a sharp rise in auto assemblies , the Fed noted . 
Robin Honiss , president and chief executive officer of this bank holding company , was elected to the additional posts of chairman , president and chief executive of the company 's New England Savings Bank subsidiary . 
The report , which comes 25 years after the U.S. Surgeon General issued a report warning against the dangers of smoking , is the strongest indication to date that the reduction in smoking is leading to lower death rates from lung cancer . 
The National Cancer Institute report compares mortality rates of two groups of people between the ages of 35 and 44 a decade apart . 
The death rate from lung cancer of white males aged 35 to 44 in the mid-1970s was 13.4 per 100,000 , but the mortality rate of the same age group in the mid-1980s was 9.6 , a decline of 28.7 % . 
Measured the same way , the decline for black males was 14.2 % . 
`` Even though these favorable trends in lung-cancer mortality affect all sex and race groups , they ca n't be taken for granted , '' the report says . 
But the editorial , by Jan Stjernsward of the World Health Organization , notes that tobacco consumption and lung-cancer mortality rates are rising in developing countries . 
The NCI report attributes the differences in mortality rates by race to different smoking patterns . 
A higher proportion of black men smoke than white men . 
Asians and native Americans were n't studied 
After gaining strength during a brief run-up when trading began , the Nasdaq Composite Index weakened under selling pressure . 
During the last two hours of trading , the composite almost drew even on the day before slipping again . 
The Nasdaq 100 Index began the day at 449.89 , lost 2 % at one point , and was up 0.4 % at another . 
The volatility was dizzying for traders . 
`` The market must have turned up and down 15 different times , '' commented Lance Zipper , head of OTC trading at Kidder Peabody . 
`` Every time you thought it was going into a rally it gave up , and every time you thought it would rally it came down . 
Mr. Zipper said the market is still settling down after the recent correction . 
`` Everybody 's confused and no one has an opinion that lasts longer than 30 seconds , '' said Mr. Zipper . 
`` A lot of the professional traders are just going back and forth . 
William Rothe , head of OTC trading at Alex . Brown & Sons , in Baltimore , said program trading is keeping the markets unsettled . 
He believes that the volatile conditions created by program trading has `` thoroughly confused '' investors about where the market is headed . 
Trading activity cooled off from Monday 's sizzling pace . 
Share turnover subsided to 161.5 million . 
Advancing and declining issues finished about even . 
One big technology issue , Novell , rode the roller coaster . 
It was a jarring day for investors in Genetics Institute . 
The stock tumbled 2 3\/4 on news that it might have to take a charge against earnings if it ca n't successfully resolve a dispute with its European licensee , Boehringer Mannheim , over its anti-anemia drug , EPO . 
Price Co. jumped 2 1\/4 to 44 on 1.7 million shares . 
`` Every year we 've been waiting for stepped-up expansion from the company . 
Intermec , a maker of optical character-recognition devices , also reported higher third-quarter earnings . 
But favorable earnings was n't a guarantee that a stock 's price would improve yesterday . 
Capital Associates dropped 1 to 5 3\/8 . 
Then cast-iron sewer pipe and the flush toilet were followed by sewage - and water-treatment plants toward the end of the 19th century . 
These apocalyptic predictions were advanced by such stalwarts as Paul Ehrlich , Barry Commoner , Rene Dubois and George Wald . 
Writing in the 1960s Ms. Carson suggested that the human race could be eliminated in 20 years , and Mr. Wald suggested that life on earth might end by 1985 . 
Writing in the 1960s Ms. Carson suggested that the human race could be eliminated in 20 years , and Mr. Wald suggested that life on earth might end by 1985 . Mr. Ehrlich predicted unprecedented famine by 1980 . 
These apocalyptic predictions were advanced by such stalwarts as Paul Ehrlich , Barry Commoner , Rene Dubois and George Wald . Writing in the 1960s Ms. Carson suggested that the human race could be eliminated in 20 years , and Mr. Wald suggested that life on earth might end by 1985 . Mr. Ehrlich predicted unprecedented famine by 1980 . There were many more . 
These apocalyptic predictions were advanced by such stalwarts as Paul Ehrlich , Barry Commoner , Rene Dubois and George Wald . Writing in the 1960s Ms. Carson suggested that the human race could be eliminated in 20 years , and Mr. Wald suggested that life on earth might end by 1985 . Mr. Ehrlich predicted unprecedented famine by 1980 . There were many more . Thousands of chemical products were categorized as carcinogenic , with recommendations that they be banned from industrial use because they produced malignant tumors in overdosed rats . 
Meanwhile , the New Environmentalists systematically opposed the methods of the Old Environmentalists . 
But the New Environmentalists oppose private wealth creation -LRB- which , they claim , depletes natural resources -RRB- and nuclear power -LRB- even though it would counteract the greenhouse effect -RRB- . 
New Environmentalism is an emotional attack on proven methods of improving our quality of life and a bid for political power . 
Nor was it intended to dictate a set of prescriptive solutions , although various points were raised . 
Each speaker was asked to address a specific topic , not deliver a point of view . 
Each scientist independently concluded society and government are underreacting when it comes to substantive policy change . 
This leads to a very special sense of urgency . 
The environment can no longer be a normal issue , to be dealt with on a business-as-usual basis with comfortable increments of change . 
We have literally altered the chemistry and physics of our planet 's atmosphere . 
This portends consequences from what we have already done that will be very destabilizing to social and economic systems . 
The consensus from the scientific community is that there is sufficient evidence to advise major policy changes . 
The results met estimates of analysts , who had already slashed their projections after the company said in late August that its 1989 earnings could tumble as much as 37 % . 
Excluding that bottling business , Coca-Cola Enterprises ' volume , measured by cases of soda , rose only 1 % . 
Coca-Cola Enterprises blamed the lower volume on its soft-drink prices , which were about 3 % higher in the third quarter . 
Consumers have been accustomed to buying soft-drinks at discounted prices for several years . 
Coca-Cola Enterprises said it had to boost spending for trade and dealer incentives to try to keep volumes from slipping . 
A spokesman attributed the bulk of a 14 % increase in selling , administrative and general expenses -- to $ 324.9 million -- to marketing costs . 
For the nine months , Coca-Cola Enterprises ' net fell 31 % to $ 65 million , or 39 cents a share , from $ 93.8 million , or 63 cents a share . 
Separately , Purchase , N.Y.-based PepsiCo Inc. , as expected , said fiscal third-quarter net rose 11 % to $ 269.3 million , or $ 1.02 a share , from $ 241.6 million , or 91 cents a share . 
In composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange , Coca-Cola Enterprises closed at $ 16.375 a share , down 62.5 cents . 
GE Capital has a working relationship with L.J. Hooker . 
Currently , Mr. Merksamer owns 20 % of the company ; L.J. Hooker acquired its 80 % interest in the firm in May 1986 . 
At the time , the Merksamer chain had 11 stores in operation . 
In recent weeks Mr. Merksamer has approached a number of his suppliers and asked them to provide letters of intent saying they will continue shipping merchandise to the chain following the buy-out , say those familiar with the situation . 
According to those familiar with the situation , other bidders included Ratners Group PLC of London and Kay Jewelers Inc . 
The company was founded in Sacramento in 1929 by two brothers , Ralph and Walter Merksamer , who operated as DeVon 's Jewelers . 
Robert J. Regal was named president and chief executive officer of this company 's Universal-Rundle Corp. unit . 
One major NBC affiliate , KCRA in Sacramento , plans to cancel the NBC Saturday morning line-up as of January and replace it with a local newscast . 
`` We do n't need cartoons anymore . 
An NBC spokesman says the network will `` closely monitor '' the Sacramento situation , and says it is the only station to defect . 
The youthful audience for Saturday programming is no longer dependent on the networks . 
At the same time , there appears to be a market for news-oriented programming 
The network 's own production company , NBC Productions , supplies a half-hour family-oriented show titled `` Saved By The Bell . '' 
NBC Productions or NBC News could supply the network with other Saturday morning shows , a move that would control costs . 
For the nine months , Rohm & Haas net totaled $ 155 million , or $ 2.33 a share , down 17 % from $ 187.8 million , or $ 2.82 a share , a year ago . 
Stephen N. Wertheimer was named managing director and group head of investment banking in Asia , based in Tokyo . 
This is written to correct a misquotation in your Oct. 3 article `` Deaths From Advanced Colon Cancer Can Be Reduced by Using Two Drugs . '' 
I did n't say this , and I 'm totally opposed to the philosophy expressed by the quote . 
This is not nearly good enough . 
The initial $ 11 million research program will conduct the most extensive testing to date of reformulated gasolines , said Joe Colucci , head of fuels and lubricants at General Motors Corp. research laboratories . 
Further investigation , he said , may result in further actions against Lincoln 's executives , said Mr. Seidman , `` including fraud actions . '' 
Some of those debtholders have filed a suit , saying they believed they were buying government-insured certificates of deposit . 
Asked about the consultants ' reports , an Eastern spokeswoman said `` we totally disagree . '' 
At a later news conference here , Frank Lorenzo , chairman of Eastern 's parent Texas Air Corp. , said Eastern was exceeding its goals for getting back into operation and predicted it would emerge from Chapter 11 protection from creditors early next year , operating with more service than it originally had scheduled . 
But after selling off pieces such as its East Coast shuttle , its Philadelphia hub and various planes , Eastern hit a stumbling block . 
Those routes , valued by the creditors ' professionals at about $ 400 million , were to be sold to AMR Corp. 's American Airlines . 
It also would leave Eastern a bigger carrier than the scaled-down one proposed under the initial plan . 
Since then , Eastern has been negotiating with creditors over revisions , but the creditors committee has been having problems with the revisions . 
The experts said they expected Eastern would have to issue new debt to cover its costs , and that it would generate far less cash than anticipated . 
At the news conference , Mr. Lorenzo and Eastern President Phil Bakes presented a far rosier assessment . 
Flanked by flight attendants , pilots and gate agents dressed in spiffy new blue uniforms , they said Eastern has exceeded its operational goals and is filling its seats . 
However , he added , `` it 's not a requirement that the plan be accepted by creditors . 
Under bankruptcy law , Eastern has exclusive rights for a certain period to develop its own reorganization plan . 
But most experts agree that the concept that is to be introduced drags in great complexity 
But most experts agree that the concept that is to be introduced drags in great complexity ; they have been trying to head it off this year . 
Now the Senate 's stripped-down bill omits any proposal to deal with the corporate tax . 
Proponents of simplification fear that the chances of getting it into the final bill are waning . 
`` We hear it has low priority on the House side , '' says Samuel Starr of Coopers & Lybrand , CPAs . 
This law aids hurricane-wracked locales named by the president as disaster areas , as well as regions so designated after other 1989 disasters . 
A loss -- after insurance recoveries -- is deductible only to the extent that it exceeds $ 100 and that the year 's total losses exceed 10 % of adjusted gross income ; victims may pick the year when income is lower and deductions higher . 
Returns for 1988 from people with six-month filing extensions were due Monday , but the IRS says people in the disaster areas wo n't be penalized for late filing if their returns are marked `` Hugo '' and postmarked by Jan. 16 . 
Among the provisions : Fiscal-year taxpayers with returns due last Monday wo n't be penalized if they file -- or request an extension -- and pay tax due by Nov. 15 . 
Excise-tax returns due by Oct. 31 or Nov. 30 may be delayed to Jan. 16 . 
USED-CAR BUYERS who try to avoid sales tax by understating prices paid in private deals are the targets of a New York drive . 
The deposits came from savings kept in a Tupperware breadbox 
BRIEFS : Asked how he made charitable gifts of $ 26,350 out of reported two-year income of $ 46,892 , Thomas H. McFall of Bryan , Texas , told the Tax Court he had understated his income . 
Kay Peterson mounts her bicycle and grinds up yet another steep , rocky path seemingly suitable only for mountain goats . 
Twelve hundred miles away , rangers at a Napa County , Calif. , state park are among the many who do n't quite share the enthusiasm . 
This summer , speeding bikers were blamed for an accident in the Napa County park , in which a horse -- spooked on a trail that was closed to bikers -- broke its leg . 
The animal had to be destroyed 
In numerous parks near San Francisco , rangers have been forced to close trails , set up speed traps and use radar guns to curb fast and reckless riding . 
`` We were being overrun , '' says Steve Fiala , trails coordinator of the East Bay Regional Park District . 
From about 200,000 six years ago , the number of mountain bikes in the U.S. is expected to grow to 10 million in 1990 . 
Key to the issue is that the bikes , in skillful hands , can go virtually anywhere , and in reckless hands can become vehicles of terror . 
For harried public-land managers across the nation , the response is increasingly to shut the gates . 
The state of California , following the lead of some regional parks , recently adopted regulations that closed nearly all hiking paths in state parks to mountain bicycles . 
Most other states have enacted similar bans . 
The bikes are unwelcome on trails in national parks . 
Often these closings come after vigorous anti-bike lobbying by conservation organizations , the politically potent Sierra Club among them . 
Sierra has been instrumental in securing a number of the California bans . 
Yet Sierra 's hard-line stance has created something of a rift in the organization , which estimates that 17 % of its 500,000 members own mountain bikes . 
But the club still insists that public lands ought to be closed to the bikes unless studies indicate the bikes wo n't injure the environment or other users . 
He says fellow bikers show the same concern for the land that they demonstrated as hikers 
To fight back , activists such as Mr. Langton are forming groups to lobby land managers over access issues and undertake education programs to show that the bikes can responsibly share trails . 
Mr. Langton 's group , Concerned Off-Road Bicyclists Association , mounted petition drives to help keep open certain Santa Monica Mountain trails designated for closing . 
These groups have been trying to improve the mountain biker 's image 
Even staunch anti-bike Sierra members concede that 10 % of all riders cause most of the problems . 
Few would have foreseen such a furor when , a decade ago , some Marin County bicycle enthusiasts created a hybrid bike using fat tires , lightweight metallurgy and multi-gear technology . 
Few would have foreseen such a furor when , a decade ago , some Marin County bicycle enthusiasts created a hybrid bike using fat tires , lightweight metallurgy and multi-gear technology . They wanted a machine that would allow them to pedal into rugged terrain then inaccessible to cycles . 
When the bikes first entered mass production in 1981 , they were dismissed as a fad . 
Last year , 25 % of the 10 million bicycles sold in the U.S. were mountain bikes . 
The majority of the bikes never even make it into the high country . 
Crested Butte , population 1,200 , is a bastion of the sport . 
By one estimate , everyone here under 50 owns at least one bike . 
The town is home to the Mountain Bike Hall of Fame and it hosts the annual Fat Tire Bike Week . 
David Lindsey , chairman of the Fat Tire Bike celebration , muses that the bike 's popularity may be a combination of technology and nostalgia . 
But stocks later recovered , erasing most of their early declines . 
The Dow Jones Industrial Average , down more than 60.25 points early in the day , finished 18.65 points lower at 2638.73 . 
`` The stock market clearly is leading the bond markets , '' said Jack Conlon , an executive vice president at Nikko Securities . 
Federal Reserve officials sent another signal of their determination to shore up investor confidence . 
Fed officials appear reluctant to ease their credit grip any further because a bold move does n't appear necessary , several investment managers said . 
The Fed has allowed a key short-term interest rate to decline about one-quarter percentage point . 
Although stocks have led bonds this week , some traders predict that relationship will reverse during the next few weeks . 
Nikko 's Mr. Conlon fears a huge wave of Treasury borrowing early next month will drive down Treasury bond prices . 
But several other traders contend investors have overreacted to junk-bond jitters , and that stock prices will continue to recover . 
The dollar was mixed . 
For the nine months , the company posted a 14 % rise in profit to $ 469.8 million , or $ 2.21 a share , from $ 410.3 million , or $ 1.95 a share . 
Forest-products operations strengthened in the third quarter , while paper operations were dogged by higher costs , soft newsprint exports and a strong Japanese yen . 
Looking ahead to the fourth quarter , the company said export log and lumber markets will be weak , while panel and plywood markets will be stronger . 
`` Step up to the plate and take the big swing . 
Get the problem behind you and do n't look back , '' said James J. McDermott , analyst at Keefe , Bruyette & Woods , in approving of the move . 
Bankers Trust `` has had the capacity to do this for some time , '' the analyst said . 
Three other major U.S. banks posted earnings increases . 
Wells Fargo & Co. of San Francisco posted a 17 % jump . 
Analysts were only slightly disappointed by Citicorp 's numbers . 
Earnings from the bank 's global consumer business grew 27 % . 
Ronald I. Mandle , analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. , called Citicorp 's venture-capital gains of $ 93 million before taxes `` strong . '' 
Wells Fargo continued to generate one of the highest profit margins among major banks , minimizing a drop in net interest margin with 13 % third-quarter growth in high-yielding business loans and similar growth in mortgages . 
As a result , Wells Fargo 's net interest income rose $ 36.3 million , or 7 % , to $ 537 million for the quarter . 
But the amount was still 39 % higher than the year-ago level , and 25 % higher as a percentage of total loans . 
That trend , and Wells Fargo 's heavy exposure to leveraged buy-outs , are about the only worries analysts have about Wells Fargo 's financial picture . 
Manufacturers Hanover said that excluding the addition to its reserves , certain tax benefits , and a one-time $ 16 million gain on the sale of an interest in a foreign leasing company , third-quarter earnings were $ 75 million . 
Fees from syndicating loans dropped 48 % , to $ 21 million . 
Net interest income in the third quarter edged up 1.4 % , to $ 317.7 million . 
Elections in this large , diverse and passionate nation are always hard to predict . 
Yesterday , four days after an unusual parliamentary defeat for the ruling party , Mr. Gandhi called elections for the lower house of Parliament on Nov. 22 and 24 . 
His early promises to make India a modern nation remain bogged down in bloated bureaucracy . 
His early promises to make India a modern nation remain bogged down in bloated bureaucracy . His pledge to clean up local administration and Indian politics , including his own party , went unfulfilled . 
His `` Mr. Clean '' image was muddied by an arms-kickback scandal , which will be a major campaign issue . 
Some analysts predict that disappointment in Mr. Gandhi 's spent pledge to reduce corruption and heavy-handed local government will crest at the polls . 
`` There 's a wide feeling of indignation across the country , '' says Bhabani Sen Gupta of the Center for Policy Research , in New Delhi . 
`` I think the people will be judging the regime by a petty policeman , by a corrupt revenue collector . 
Even if the Congress -LRB- I -RRB- retains control of the government , Mr. Gandhi 's ability to push through major initiatives might be hobbled by a thinner majority . 
In 1984 , the Congress -LRB- I -RRB- captured 405 seats , the largest victory in the history of Indian democracy . 
The landslide was fueled by panic that prevailed in India at the time . 
Mrs. Gandhi had been assassinated by separatist Sikhs , and many Indians feared their country might split apart . 
In the previous three general elections , similar national issues clinched the vote . 
In 1971 , the Congress Party won after India 's victory in the Bangladesh war . 
Chimanbhai Mehta , a parliamentarian and former Gandhi ally , predicts Congress -LRB- I -RRB- will win only 150 seats , a quarter of the house , if the opposition fields single candidates in 80 % of the races . 
In April 1987 , evidence surfaced that commissions were paid . 
But many of his statements on the issue in Parliament subsequently were proven wrong by documentary evidence . 
The scandal has faded and flared , but recent disclosures propelled it back onto the front pages , and that has helped galvanize the opposition , which last week blocked passage of two constitutional amendment bills . 
In a country where a bribe is needed to get a phone , a job , and even into a school , the name Bofors has become a potent rallying cry against the government . 
That illustrates the kind of disappointment many Indians feel toward Mr. Gandhi , whom they zestfully elected and enthusiastically supported in his first two years in power . 
But the average Indian had tremendous hope in the youthful leader and his promise to make both government and the ruling party more effective and less corrupt . 
`` We do n't like the Congress -LRB- I -RRB- , '' says Sooraji Jath , a farmer in the western state of Gujarat . 
`` The Congress government is taking the farmers ' bread and not giving us any support . 
The greatest thing going for Mr. Gandhi and the Congress -LRB- I -RRB- Party is the poor reputation of the opposition . 
Even if it unites for the elections , its coherence is likely to be temporary . 
Sweden 's National Audit Bureau releases its report confirming payment of about $ 40 million to unidentified Indians . June 1 , 1987 : 
The report says that investigations were severely hampered by lack of cooperation from Bofors . 
Bofors says it ca n't disclose the names of the middlemen because it would jeopardize industrial confidentiality . 
Retired army Chief of Staff Krishnaswami Sundarji discloses in an interview that he suggested in May 1987 that the government cancel the Bofors contract . 
`` Bond investors were hoping that stock prices would continue to fall , '' said Roger Early , a vice president at Federated Investors Inc. , Pittsburgh . 
Meanwhile , for the second straight day , the bond market paid little attention to the Federal Reserve 's open market operations . 
Fed officials injected more cash into the banking system by arranging $ 1.5 billion of repurchase agreements during the usual pre-noon intervention period . 
`` The intervention has been friendly , meaning that they really did n't have to do it , '' said Maria Fiorini Ramirez , money-market economist at Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc . 
But most junk bonds closed unchanged after opening slightly higher on bargain-hunting by institutional investors . 
Some so-called high-quality junk issues , such as R.H. Macy & Co. 's 14 1\/2 % subordinated debentures , rose . 
Traders said hedging related to the TVA pricing also pressured Treasury bonds . 
Another agency issue came to market yesterday . 
The release of several economic reports had little impact on the market , including a report that the U.S. trade deficit expanded to a surprisingly wide $ 10.77 billion in August , up from a revised $ 8.24 billion in July . 
The benchmark 30-year bond was quoted late at 100 28\/32 to yield 8.04 % , compared with 101 19\/32 to yield 7.97 % Monday . 
Short-term rates increased . 
The discount rate on three-month bills rose to 7.52 % for a bond-equivalent yield of 7.75 % . 
The TVA 's huge $ 4 billion offering dominated attention in the new-issue market . 
The revival of the real estate mortgage investment conduit market reflected the relative calm in the mortgage market after two days of volatile trading . 
Ginnie Mae 9 % securities for November delivery ended at 97 29\/32 , down 7\/32 ; 9 1\/2 % securities at 99 31\/32 , down 6\/32 ; and 10 % securities at 101 29\/32 , down 5\/32 . 
Prices of pre-refunded municipal bonds were capped by news that Chemical Securities Inc. , as agent for a customer , will accept bids today for two large lists of bonds that include many such issues . 
West Germany 's 7 % bond due October 1999 was at 99.95 late yesterday , off 0.10 point from Monday , to yield 7.01 % . 
British government bonds surged on renewed volatility in the stock market . 
But Japanese bonds ended weaker . 
And a squad of influential former Senate aides employed by the Wall Street firm Salomon Brothers came to the Capitol in a vain attempt to strip the provision . 
This sum has been guarded jealously by appropriators anxious to offset spending elsewhere , and conservative Sen. Phil Gramm cast the fight as a populist stand against monied interests . 
The action came as the administration won final congressional approval of $ 9 million in assistance for elections scheduled in Nicaragua in February . 
The Senate had refused late Friday to invoke cloture and limit debate , but behind the bipartisan leadership , a solid majority took shape yesterday and brushed aside amendments seeking to cut the total package or steer it away from direct aid to political parties . 
The money will be applied for voter registration and election monitoring , but more than half is likely to go to the Union Nacional Opositora party . 
These costs will complicate the budget picture in fiscal 1991 , and the measure further commits Congress to a set of costly projects , including the first construction funds for the space station . 
To an unusual degree , the massive bill has become a vehicle for lawmakers to earmark funds for projects in home states . 
While the practice was discouraged in the past , the conference agreement is laced with veterans ' hospitals , environmental projects and urban grants designated for specific communities . 
Yesterday 's conference agreement is the second major bill to emerge from negotiations this week , as appropriators approved a fiscal 1990 transportation bill late Monday that includes a sweeping ban on smoking on most domestic airline flights . 
And among domestic programs , the most serious threat is White House opposition to abortion riders attached to separate bills funding the District of Columbia and Department of Health and Human Services . 
In a sharply written letter , Rep. David Obey , chairman of the House appropriations subcommittee for foreign operations , warned Mr. Bush that the result of his `` ultimatum '' could weaken efforts to accommodate the administration elsewhere . 
Markets usually get noticed because they soar or plunge . 
Gold , which has n't risen or fallen significantly in quite some time , yesterday achieved what may be a new level of impassiveness 
The settlement prices of the December , February and April gold contracts were even with Monday 's final prices . 
The December 1989 contract , which has the greatest trading volume , ended at $ 371.20 an ounce . 
Yesterday , gold traded within a narrow range . 
`` December delivery gold is trading in a range of $ 365 to $ 375 -LCB- an ounce -RCB- and is having difficulty breaking out above that , '' Mr. Savaiko said . 
Jeffrey Nichols , president of APMS Canada , Toronto precious metals advisers , said there is little to motivate gold traders to buy the metal . 
There is n't any rush on the part of investors in the West to buy gold , he said . 
`` They still bear the memory of October 1987 , when they bought gold after the stock market crashed and ended up losing money because gold prices subsequently fell , '' Mr. Nichols said . 
Dinsa Mehta , chief bullion trader for Chase Manhattan Bank , said : `` There is little incentive on the part of traders to sell gold because the stock market may go lower and gold may retain some of its ` flight to safety ' quality . 
Dinsa Mehta , chief bullion trader for Chase Manhattan Bank , said : `` There is little incentive on the part of traders to sell gold because the stock market may go lower and gold may retain some of its ` flight to safety ' quality . There is little incentive to buy gold because if the stock market goes higher , it may be just a false alarm . 
Mr. Mehta observed that the U.S. merchandise trade deficit , which rose sharply in August , according to yesterday 's report , has been having less and less impact on the gold market . 
ENERGY : Crude oil prices rose slightly in lackluster activity as traders in the pits tried to assess action in the stock market . 
Since stock market indexes plummeted last Friday , participants in all markets have been wary . 
When traders become confident that the stock market has stabilized , oil prices are expected to rise as supply and demand fundamentals once again become the major consideration . 
Heating oil prices also rose . 
Futures prices rose on a report that Cuba may seek to postpone some sugar shipments . 
According to an analyst , Cuba ca n't meet all its shipment commitments and has asked Japan to accept a delay of shipments scheduled for later this year , into early next year . 
`` Japan is perceived as a wealthy nation that can turn elsewhere in the world market and buy the sugar , '' the analyst said . 
It was the possibility of this demand that helped firm prices , the analyst said . 
Another analyst noted that Cuba has been deferring shipments in recent years . 
`` To the professionals in the trade it did n't cause much surprise . 
The prices of most livestock futures contracts had dropped sharply Monday . 
The prices of most soybean and soybean-meal futures contracts rose amid rumors that the Soviet Union is interested in buying from the U.S. or South America about 250,000 metric tons of soybeans and as many as 400,000 metric tons of soybean meal . 
Traders are especially sensitive to reports of possible U.S. soybean sales because U.S. exports are lagging . 
Moody 's Investors Service Inc. , fretting about increasing competitive pressure on Ryder , placed about $ 2.8 billion in company securities under review for possible downgrade . 
Ratings under review are Ryder 's A-1 collateral trust debentures , A-2 senior notes and bonds , A-2 preferred stock and the company 's Prime-1 rating for commercial paper . 
Moody 's said it is assessing the strategies Ryder 's management may follow in addressing significant challenges in some major markets . 
The nations of southern Africa know a lot about managing elephants 
But the nations of Europe and North America have decided they know better . 
A Zimbabwean delegate argued that the ban would `` guarantee the extinction of the elephant . '' 
Legitimate ranchers , who have an interest in preserving the herds , would go out of business . 
Many delegates were willing to craft a compromise , but U.S. delegate Constance Harriman and others thundered that down . 
Fortunately , the nations of southern Africa have n't totally surrendered their sovereignty . 
In fact , they seemed a mite resentful . 
The director of Zimbabwe 's Wildlife Department described American conservationists as `` fat little puppies from urban environments who do n't know a thing about Africa . '' 
That 's not fair 
The State Development Board set up a Hugo Hotline to accept business-to-business help . 
After NBC weather man Willard Scott broadcast the hot-line number , it was flooded with 10,000 calls . 
The Senate , after deleting Section 89 repeal from its deficit-reduction bill , still is expected to join the House in voting to kill the law , which forces companies to provide comparable benefits to laborers and executives alike . 
There is also worry that the Pepper Commission studying long-term health care will again push lawmakers toward employerpaid solutions . 
Sen. Lloyd Bentsen -LRB- D. , Texas -RRB- was outraged after a private word to John Motley , lobbyist for the National Federation of Independent Business , resulted in a news release saying that the Senate Finance Committee chairman would recommend repeal of Section 89 . 
Even though the announcement was true in the end , it was issued without the senator 's permission . 
Sen. Strom Thurmond -LRB- R. , S.C . -RRB- protests pending legislation to end the preference that the federal prison system gets in selling prisoner-made furniture and other goods to government agencies . 
But the warranty on simpler parts would be lowered to two years or 24,000 miles . 
The repair shops are n't united , however . 
Shops represented by the Automotive Service Industry Association and the Motor Equipment Manufacturers Association oppose any increase in warranty length . 
Mr. McKinney will continue as chairman of the board and chairman of the executive committee of Banc One Indiana Corp. , the successor company to American Fletcher Corp. , but will no longer be active in day-to-day management . 
It was `` the Soviets ' Vietnam . '' 
It was `` the Soviets ' Vietnam . '' The Kabul regime would fall . 
It was `` the Soviets ' Vietnam . '' The Kabul regime would fall . Millions of refugees would rush home . 
It was `` the Soviets ' Vietnam . '' The Kabul regime would fall . Millions of refugees would rush home . A resistance government would walk into Kabul . 
Those who bought that illusion are now bewildered . 
But there never was a chance that the Afghan resistance would overthrow the Kabul regime quickly and easily . 
Soviet leaders said they would support their Kabul clients by all means necessary -- and did . 
With the February 1987 U.N. accords `` relating to Afghanistan , '' the Soviet Union got everything it needed to consolidate permanent control . 
The terms of the Geneva accords leave Moscow free to provide its clients in Kabul with assistance of any kind -- including the return of Soviet ground forces -- while requiring the U.S. and Pakistan to cut off aid . 
But as soon as the accords were signed , American officials sharply reduced aid . 
Not so the Soviets . 
Gen. Gromov himself said Soviet troops expected to leave behind more than $ 1 billion of military equipment and installations for the Kabul regime . 
Since the troop withdrawal , Moscow has poured in an additional $ 200 to $ 300 million worth per month -- nearly $ 2 billion since February , equivalent to the total U.S. aid to the resistance in nine years . 
By early May , Moscow had delivered , for example , 1,000 trucks , about 100 tanks , artillery and hundreds of other combat vehicles . 
Later that month , it added an entire tank brigade , including 120 T-72 tanks and more than 40 BMP state-of-the-art infantry fighting vehicles . 
By September , a new Reinforced Motorized Rifle Brigade with an additional 300 combat vehicles , 1,000 more trucks and 10,000 Soviet-trained Afghan troops had arrived in Kandahar . 
Moscow claims this is all needed to protect the Kabul regime against the guerrilla resistance . 
But this is not the entire Afghan army , and it is no longer Kabul 's only military force . 
Complete units have been trained and indoctrinated in the U.S.S.R. and other East bloc nations 
Since 1981 , Indian military advisers have been assisting the Kabul regime . 
Cuban military personnel also have been active in Afghanistan since 1979 . 
The Soviets cut a deal with Iran : a future Iranian role in Afghanistan in exchange for Iranian support of Soviet policy . 
Moreover , serious questions have been raised about the claimed withdrawal of Soviet forces . 
Before his assassination in 1988 , President Zia of Pakistan repeatedly stated that fresh Soviet troops were being inserted into Afghanistan even as others were ostentatiously withdrawn . 
In this they are aided by years of American , European , Pakistani and Saudi support for the most extreme factions -- radical Islamic fanatics with leaders whose policies are anathema to the Afghan public . 
At the last minute , however , Pakistani officials sent in Gulbuddin Hekhmatyar , perhaps the most hated and feared of the extremists , with a demand that the surrender be made to his forces . 
The resistance lacks not only air power , armor and expertise but often such essentials as maps , mine detectors , or even winter gloves . 
Instead , they were pressured by Pakistan 's ISI , the channel for their support , into attacking Jalalabad . 
They took more than 25 % casualties 
The resistance lacks not only air power , armor and expertise but often such essentials as maps , mine detectors , or even winter gloves . Experienced resistance commanders wanted to use guerrilla action and siege tactics to wear down the regime . Instead , they were pressured by Pakistan 's ISI , the channel for their support , into attacking Jalalabad . They took more than 25 % casualties ; journalists report that they faced minefields without mine detectors . 
For months the resistance has been defenseless against air attack . 
No settlement negotiated by others can force the Afghan people to give up their struggle . 
A cutoff of U.S. military aid would merely abandon them to die in vain . 
It is n't surprising that President Bush has n't led a crusade to pump up the Contras or SDI . 
What 's surprising is that there is n't more of a conservative outcry as the Bush administration lets the programs slip down the national-priority list . 
`` But it 's like kicking your father in the pants . 
You hate to do it because he 's your father . '' 
Of course , neither President Bush nor the Congress has actually abandoned the Contras or SDI . 
Most analysts think there 's little prospect the Contras can be a significant fighting force without U.S. arms , and after the February election their future in any form will be murky at best . 
But the strong pitch by Mr. Cheney may be too little too late to prevent damage to SDI . 
More ominous to SDI supporters , the Bush administration appears to have tacitly accepted a new arms-control proposal from the Soviet Union that spells long-term trouble for Star Wars . 
In fact , because communism seems to be beating a global retreat , some conservatives may simply be so pleased that their anti-communist philosophy is prevailing that they do n't have the fire at the moment to push controversial programs . 
One longtime champion of these programs in Congress , Republican whip Newt Gingrich of Georgia , is distracted by questions about his ethics , conservatives note . 
Above all , though , proponents say neither the Contra nor the SDI cause can be pushed much further without more presidential support . 
All this causes Rep. Hyde to muse about an alternate way to drum up more enthusiasm . 
His recent speech , provocatively titled `` Blacks ? Animals ? Homosexuals ? What is a Minority ? '' caused an uproar when its title leaked out . 
Mr. Allen 's commissioners voted to call his unread speech `` thoughtless , disgusting and unnecessarily inflammatory . '' 
Commissioner Mary Francis Berry said it was `` another sad episode in the saga of the unguided missile who is chairman . '' 
Commissioner Mary Francis Berry said it was `` another sad episode in the saga of the unguided missile who is chairman . '' Rep. Don Edwards , the California Democrat , warned Mr. Allen that the speech would be `` outside the scope of the commission 's jurisdiction . '' 
Mr. Allen began it with a warning to his hosts , a California church group that opposes rights for homosexuals . 
'' Mr. Allen objected to this analogy because it seems to `` assimilate the status of blacks to that of animals -- as a mere project of charity , of humaneness . '' 
He says the title of his speech was to make his point that Americans have rights as individuals , not as members of certain select groups . 
His speech criticized the `` idiocy of notions of protected groups in society '' as opposed to individual equality or , as he put it , in `` a common destiny as Americans . '' 
This hardly sounds like an anti-homosexual screed . 
Mr. Allen , who teaches government at prestigious Harvey Mudd College in California and will remain a member of the commission , has spent years arguing that civil rights are individuals ' rights . 
He last made waves when he dared to defend an Indian girl who had been adopted by non-Indian parents off her reservation . 
Indeed , the gap is so large that Mr. Allen 's critics refuse to engage the debate . 
Their ridicule of him is no substitute for argument . 
Their effort to run him out of Washington is an embarrassment to the original purpose of their own movement . 
George L. LaMore , president and chief executive officer , will become chairman and chief executive upon Mr. Cunin 's retirement . 
At the Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. stand , Mrs. Nelson Rockefeller , a board member , offered him a soy burger . 
The Soviet president and his prime minister , Nikolai Ryzhkov , spent the longest time , about 15 minutes , at the IBM stand , where they got souvenir computer-chip key rings . 
In Beijing , meantime , China opened an international aviation show , but the West 's embargo on military deals and uncertainty about the nation 's stability kept many foreign exhibitors away . 
Japanese air-conditioner maker Daikin Industries Ltd. was fined two million yen -LRB- $ 14,000 -RRB- for exporting to the Soviet Union a chemical solution that could be used in missile-guidance systems . 
A Soviet legislative panel rejected as not radical enough a government proposal on decentralizing economic control . 
Scott Paper Co. said it is abandoning a proposed $ 650 million tree-farming project in Indonesia because it no longer expects to use as much eucalyptus pulp as previously anticipated . 
Christie 's will soon have a sale of Dada and Symbolist art while Sotheby 's is luring collectors with sales of Swiss , German , Spanish , Australian and Canadian paintings . 
Berlin 's Villa Grisebach will auction art works with pre-sale estimates of less than $ 1,600 on Nov. 25 . 
Antwerp auctioneer Campo is less concerned with market niches than with Belgium 's crushing tax and auction-fee burden . 
`` Everything has to be the same between countries , '' says Campo 's Stefan Campo , who is asking clients to sign protest petitions . 
Ending tax-free shopping in the European Community after 1992 could threaten more than 3,000 jobs , the International Duty Free Confederation said . 
Polaroid reported operating profit before taxes and interest costs of $ 63.1 million for the third quarter , more than double the year-before $ 24 million . 
`` I 'm somewhat skeptical about the underlying demand '' for Polaroid products , said Michael Ellmann , an analyst with Wertheim Schroder & Co . 
`` If you believe that a good performance next year is contingent on an acceleration of revenue , there is n't a lot here to base optimism on . '' 
Sam Yanes , a Polaroid spokesman , said `` I do n't know about disappointing , '' but added that the company has n't been able to get the product on the shelves of some mass-merchandise , discount retailers that it had hoped would be carrying the product already . 
For the nine months , Polaroid reported earnings of $ 98.5 million , or $ 1.27 a share . 
Yesterday , the Dow Jones Industrial Average did a now familiar dance 
And , apparently , it is here to stay . 
`` Institutions are herding animals , '' says Peter Anderson , who heads the pension-fund management arm of IDS Financial Services Inc . 
`` We watch the same indicators and listen to the same prognosticators . 
Trading in futures and options , some people believe , can add to volatility . 
These and other modern trading methods `` tend to promote dramatic shifts in assets , '' says George Douglas , first vice president at Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc . 
For instance , First Quadrant Corp. , an asset allocator based in Morristown , N.J. , said it quickly boosted stock positions in its `` aggressive '' accounts to 75 % from 55 % to take advantage of plunging prices Friday . 
It added another 5 % Monday before stocks rallied . 
A classic example of institutions ' hunger for liquidity is portfolio insurance , now widely discredited . 
Yet even today , institutions are quietly practicing forms of portfolio insurance by nervously rushing to and fro in the markets . 
Brokers do n't deny that . 
Wall Street traders say that , with institutional brokerage commissions far lower than in the 1970s , securities firms ca n't afford to take the risk of buying too much stock . 
`` I think everyone 's a little more leery , '' says Jack Baker , head of equity trading at Shearon Lehman Hutton Inc . 
`` The institutions have driven -LRB- commission -RRB- rates down to the point where it makes no sense to commit capital , '' says Tom Gallagher , senior executive vice president in charge of institutional trading at Oppenheimer & Co . 
Lack of liquidity can also result from exchange `` reforms . '' 
Many traders say that `` circuit breakers '' put in place to damp volatility after the 1987 crash actually added to volatility when the stock market plunged Friday . 
`` With the futures-trading halt , you could only sell stocks '' to cut exposure to the market , says a money manager . 
The takeover mania also adds to volatility . 
UAL Corp. is a good example . 
Valued as a buy-out target , the airline stock was trading at nearly $ 280 a share . 
When the deal ran into trouble , the stock tumbled 
When the deal ran into trouble , the stock tumbled ; it closed at $ 198 yesterday . 
By contrast , traditional buy-and-hold investors are unlikely to generate sudden price moves . 
Some experts say markets are n't as volatile as widely assumed . 
Hans Stoll , finance professor at Vanderbilt University , says the current volatility in U.S. markets pales in comparison to the 1930s , decades before derivative instruments such as options and futures were introduced . 
Some people think the search for liquidity is fruitless . 
In 1936 , John Maynard Keynes wrote that `` of the maxims of orthodox finance none , surely , is more antisocial than the fetish of liquidity . '' 
Mr. Redmond said the intruder had n't yet done any harm but the agency feared `` garbage data could be substituted for real data . '' 
Michael Alexander , a senior editor at Computerworld , a trade publication , said he was told that the worm gets into a computer center by looking for obvious passwords -- such as ones that are the same as the user 's name . 
The worm also looks for elementary passwords that confer more privileges on the user . The passwords are included in the system software when it is installed but are supposed to be replaced as soon as the system is up and running . 
NASA estimated that , on Monday , about four computer centers were affected . 
Yesterday , the number grew to 40 
Anti-nuclear activists have protested the launch of the Galileo space probe to Jupiter because it uses plutonium to generate the electricity needed to run the craft . 
So far Galileo has been delayed twice , once because of a computer malfunction connected with a space-shuttle engine , and yesterday because of the weather . 
Mr. Alexander of Computerworld said hackers have gone after SPAN before . 
Yet it is also axiomatic that the power to create new crimes belongs only to the legislature , and not to courts . 
For example , although insider trading has long been criminal , it has never been statutorily defined . 
Gradually , however , lower courts and prosecutors have pushed this definition to its breaking point . 
Prior to a tender offer by A&P for Waldbaum Inc. in 1986 , the founder of the Waldbaum 's supermarket chain called an elderly relative to tell her to assemble her stock certificates for delivery . 
She called her daughter to take her to the bank , who , in turn , persuaded her husband , a Mr. Loeb , to run this errand . 
She called her daughter to take her to the bank , who , in turn , persuaded her husband , a Mr. Loeb , to run this errand . Hearing of this information , the husband discussed it with his broker , Mr. Chestman , and Mr. Chestman then bought for his own account and other clients . 
Basically , Mr. Chestman was a fourth-level tippee . 
A second illustration is supplied by the recent guilty plea entered by Robert Freeman , formerly head of arbitrage at Goldman , Sachs & Co . 
Essentially , Mr. Freeman had invested heavily in the Beatrice leveraged buy-out , when he was told by another prominent trader , Bernard `` Bunny '' Lasker , that the deal was in trouble . 
After placing orders to sell , Mr. Freeman called Martin Siegel , an investment banker at Kidder , Peabody & Co. , who was advising on the deal , to confirm these rumors . 
The illegal `` tip '' of the bunny 's good nose was then largely a confirmation of rumors already known to many in the market . 
It is not my contention that either Mr. Chestman or Mr. Freeman was an innocent victim of prosecutorial overzealousness . 
Courts and legislatures make decisions in very different ways and are each susceptible to very different kinds of errors . 
After-the-fact judicial examination of an actor 's conduct has always been the common law 's method . 
Still , case-by-case retrospective decision making of this sort is vulnerable to the tunnel vision caused by a fixation on ad hoc -LRB- and usually sleazy -RRB- examples . 
In the past , not only would reputable professionals have rushed to check out such rumors with the company , but companies listed on the major stock exchanges were encouraged by the exchanges to respond openly to such inquiries from securities analysts . 
The federal mail and wire fraud statutes provide even better illustrations of the rapid evolution of a federal common law of white-collar crime . 
Yet , late last year , Congress effectively reversed this decision by enacting a one-sentence statute that defined fraud to include any scheme to deprive another of `` the intangible right of honest services . '' 
Such a statute illustrates the fundamental problem : Congress finds it is easier to pass sweepingly moralistic prohibitions , which the courts must thereafter interpret , than to engage in the difficult line-drawing distinctions that are inherently its responsibility . 
We are confronted less with a judicial power grab than with a legislative giveaway . 
The telecommunications , specialty glass , ceramic products and laboratory-services concern said the latest quarter included a tax-loss carry-forward of $ 600,000 . 
The lightning moves show that the stock market remains fragile and volatile -- ready to jump at the slightest rumor -- a few days after its shocking 190.58-point plunge . 
New York Stock Exchange volume was a heavy 224,070,000 shares . 
UAL was watched closely and traded heavily . 
The market is still very touchy about rumors and news on pending takeovers . 
UAL , which is trying to reconstruct a buy-out bid that banks would n't finance , represents the future of one of the most powerful ingredients in the bull market - corporate restructuring . 
The volatility wo n't end soon . 
This Friday brings the `` double witching hour , '' Wall Street 's nickname for the monthly simultaneous expiration of a variety of stock index futures , index options and options on individual stocks . 
Traders are already buckling their seat belts . 
Investors were buying yesterday , but they were running scared to premier blue chips such as Procter & Gamble , which jumped 3 3\/8 to 127 . 
Chase Manhattan , which sold 14 million additional shares at 40 1\/8 Monday through an underwriting group led by Goldman Sachs , closed down 1\/8 to 40 . 
Aside from computer-guided selling , airline stocks took a beating as well . 
The Dow Jones Transportation Average fell 49.96 to close at 1254.27 . 
AMR , the parent of American Airlines , continued to retreat in the wake of New York developer Donald Trump 's decision to withdraw his $ 120-a-share takeover bid . 
The stock fell 3 1\/4 to 73 1\/4 on 3.4 million shares . 
But Texas Air , the owner of Continental and Eastern airlines , bucked the group 's decline by rising 7\/8 to 14 5\/8 in American Stock Exchange trading . 
Philip Morris , the most active Big Board issue for the second consecutive session , was unchanged at 43 1\/4 on 3.9 million shares . 
Other blue-chip consumer issues also fared relatively well 
Other blue-chip consumer issues also fared relatively well : PepsiCo rose 1 3\/8 to 58 1\/2 
Other blue-chip consumer issues also fared relatively well : PepsiCo rose 1 3\/8 to 58 1\/2 ; Coca-Cola Co. was unchanged at 66 3\/4 
Broader averages also fell . 
Among the takeover-related stocks that sold off yesterday were Disney , which closed down 2 1\/8 to 121 1\/4 . 
Philips Industries tumbled 3\/8 to 22 7\/8 
Among other blue chips , Exxon gained 1\/8 to 45 1\/2 . 
The only industry group to show a gain from the industrial average 's record high on Oct. 9 is restaurants . 
Trading also was heavy in the over-the-counter market . 
`` The environment is a lot more trading-oriented , '' said Gary Rosenbach , manager of equity trading at the OTC stock firm Needham & Co. in New York . 
B.F. Goodrich dropped 1 3\/8 to 49 1\/8 . 
Intertan jumped 2 1\/4 to 56 7\/8 . 
Fruit of the Loom slipped 1\/8 to 12 3\/8 on 501,200 shares . 
Fruit of the Loom slipped 1\/8 to 12 3\/8 on 501,200 shares . DWG Corp. jumped 1 1\/4 to 15 on 454,100 shares . 
Amex issues with big percentage price gains included two Eastern Air Lines preferred stocks , reacting to the news about improved recovery in flight schedules after the company filed for bankruptcy protection . 
Eastern 's Class F preferred rose 12 % , or 1 1\/4 , to 11 3\/4 
The biggest percentage gainer on the Amex was Enviropact , which jumped 23 % , or 5\/8 , to 3 3\/8 on volume of 29,000 shares . 
And they wo n't consider such a dividend , the trust added , before results are available for the first quarter of 1990 . 
In part , the trust cited the need to retain cash for possible acquisitions . 
Yields on small-denomination certificates of deposit fell at about half the rate of so-called jumbo CDs this week , according to Banxquote Money Markets , an information service based here . 
`` Banks want to remain competitive , '' said Norberto Mehl , chairman of Banxquote . 
Some bankers are reporting more inquiries than usual about CDs since Friday . 
`` Reports from branches are that there has been greater interest in the last day or so , '' said Steven Braitman , a vice president at Chemical Bank in New York . 
Average yields on CDs aimed at individual investors fell less than half as much as yields on Treasury bills sold at Monday 's auction . 
Six-month CDs of $ 50,000 and less yielded an average 8.02 % in the week ended Tuesday , down from 8.10 % , according to Banxquote . 
Meanwhile , the average yield on six-month CDs of more than $ 90,000 fell to 7.93 % in the latest week , according to Banxquote , from 8.10 % the week before . 
A six-month , broker-sold CD , for example , was yielding an average 8.09 % in the latest week , a fifth of a percentage point lower than the week before . 
CD yields are generally expected to fall further in coming weeks . 
`` Even before the market drop , rates were down about half a percentage point , '' said Robert J. Hutchinson , senior vice president for retail marketing at Manufacturers Hanover Trust Co. in New York . 
Conservatives have an important decision to make this fall . 
While the U.S. share of the increase probably will not reach the $ 12 billion or more implicit in the IMF 's request for a doubling of its $ 90 billion capital , the administration probably will agree to a multibillion-dollar increase . 
The IMF has several reasons for requesting the increase . 
Its role in the economies of developing countries has grown steadily since the 1970s . 
Third , the IMF would like to meet Japan 's request for increased ownership -LRB- currently 4.5 % -RRB- . 
While international politics may argue for the capital increase , there is a clear economic case against it . 
Opponents of the increase argue that the IMF practices central planning while supporting ineffective governments . 
Opponents of the increase argue that the IMF practices central planning while supporting ineffective governments . They question whether the IMF has any role in developing countries , given its original mandate to assist industrial countries in balance-of-payments emergencies . Opponents show that there are already more funds available than commendable reform efforts . 
They worry that new IMF funding of developing countries will simply end up substituting IMF debt for reschedulable commercial bank debt , a bad trade all around . Opponents of the increase argue that the IMF practices central planning while supporting ineffective governments . They question whether the IMF has any role in developing countries , given its original mandate to assist industrial countries in balance-of-payments emergencies . Opponents show that there are already more funds available than commendable reform efforts . 
Opponents of the increase argue that the IMF practices central planning while supporting ineffective governments . They question whether the IMF has any role in developing countries , given its original mandate to assist industrial countries in balance-of-payments emergencies . Opponents show that there are already more funds available than commendable reform efforts . They worry that new IMF funding of developing countries will simply end up substituting IMF debt for reschedulable commercial bank debt , a bad trade all around . They believe microeconomics , which addresses the problems of markets , investment climate and management practices , is the key to developing-country growth , not the IMF 's Keynesian focus on trade deficits , quarterly targets and government debt . 
The politics of the 1990 congressional authorization are likely to be similar to those of previous authorizations . 
Liberals may support the stabilizing , quasi-governmental role of the IMF on two conditions : that the administration give assurances that liberal Democrats ' support will not be used against them in congressional re-election campaigns ; and that the legislation address -- with dollars -- social and environmental concerns . 
A U.S. decision to refuse the IMF its capital increase , or limit it to 25 % , would bring a major change in international economic policy , and could not be taken lightly . 
Commentators would fret over the implications for the G-7 coordination process and the stability of world financial markets . 
On the other hand , a decision to increase the IMF 's capital would reinforce the central economic role of multilateral institutions in developing countries . 
With the increase , even more developing-country energy and talent would be diverted from creating profitable economic systems to setting up economic planning ministries that generate IMF-approved economic plans . 
Conservatives should take a position prior to the administration 's year-end deadline . 
Merc officials said Gary N. Roberts was disciplined following the exchange 's investigation of his trading in several commodities pits from July to November 1988 . 
But TCI President John Malone has long been concerned about HBO 's dominance of the pay TV business , and has been eager to keep Showtime as a healthy competitor . 
In a telephone interview , Robert Thomson , TCI senior vice president , said Showtime 's suit against HBO `` does n't involve us , and nothing we 're doing here bears any relationship to that . '' 
The TCI investment is a big victory for Viacom 's chief executive officer , Frank Biondi , and Winston H. Cox , president of the Showtime unit . 
`` It will take several meetings to resolve this , '' said a spokesman for the Machinists union . 
Intelogic Trace , a computer services company , was spun off to Datapoint holders in 1985 , after Mr. Edelman gained control . 
In a Securities and Exchange Commission filing , Mr. Edelman said from Sept. 29 to Oct. 13 , he acquired 309,500 shares of Intelogic common shares for $ 2.25 to $ 2.375 each . 
The report takes a more alarmed view of AIDS and recommends a more sweeping response than many other analyses . 
The unit stabilized about midday New York time at around 1.85 marks and 141 yen , prompting unconfirmed rumors that the U.S. Federal Reserve had intervened to blunt the unit 's tumble . 
The U.S. Commerce Department reported a $ 10.77 billion deficit in August , compared with a revised July deficit of $ 8.24 billion . 
The dollar 's near-term path remains foggy , according to currencny analysts , who characterize the market as `` bewildering . '' 
In late New York trading yesterday , the dollar was quoted at 1.8667 marks , down from 1.8685 marks late Monday , and at 142.75 yen , up from 141.85 yen late Monday . 
The National Broadcasting Co. , a unit of General Electric Co. , had its record-breaking 68-week reign as the prime-time ratings leader snapped yesterday by ABC-TV , a subsidiary of Capital Cities\/ABC Inc . 
The first two games of the World Series between the Oakland Athletics and San Francisco Giants did n't finish in the top 10 ; instead they landed in 16th and 18th place . 
NBC had five of the top 10 shows 
Houston-based Maryland Club Foods , which had sales of about $ 200 million last year , sells coffee under the Maryland Club and Butter-Nut brands to restaurants , hotels , offices and airlines . 
MACMILLAN BLOEDEL Ltd. said it borrowed 215 million Dutch guilders -LRB- US$ 102 million -RRB- from a group of Dutch institutional investors . 
MACMILLAN BLOEDEL Ltd. said it borrowed 215 million Dutch guilders -LRB- US$ 102 million -RRB- from a group of Dutch institutional investors . MacMillan Bloedel , a Vancouver , British Columbia , forest products concern , said the 8.1 % loan is due Oct. 16 , 1996 . 
Earlier this month , the Reserve Bank of New Zealand , the country 's central bank , appointed the managers to run the investment bank and pay creditors . 
However , that does n't mean they can benefit from the vaccine . 
`` The conventional wisdom used to be that you could n't modify the immune response of an infected individual '' by innoculating them with synthetic viral proteins , Dr. Redfield said . 
He said certain volunteers developed kinds of antibodies associated with early AIDS . 
Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan meets regularly for lunch with Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady and talks frequently with Budget Director Richard Darman and Michael Boskin , chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers . 
Net fell to $ 40.1 million , or $ 1.50 a share , from $ 60.7 million , or $ 2.32 a share , a year earlier . 
Polyvinyl chloride capacity `` has overtaken demand and we are experiencing reduced profit margins as a result , '' said John D. Ong , chairman and chief executive . 
Goodrich 's vinyl-products segment reported operating profit for the quarter of $ 30.1 million , less than half the $ 64.1 million of the year-earlier quarter . 
Ford 's latest move increases the pressure on GM to complete its current talks with Jaguar quickly . 
At that point investors may face a long , bumpy ride . 
A victor in the fight for Jaguar may not emerge until after the expiration late next year of British government takeover restrictions . 
The curbs prevent a buyer from purchasing more than 15 % of Jaguar shares without permission . 
Last week , many Jaguar shareholders took their money and ran . 
Both Shearson 's Mr . Will and Stephen Reitman , European auto analyst at the London brokerage firm UBS-Phillips & Drew , recently switched their Jaguar recommendations to hold from buy . 
Jaguar shareholders would have to bless such a far-reaching accord . 
Ford might challenge the proposal by offering a full bid if holders and the U.K. government agreed to drop the anti-takeover barrier early . 
`` I think Ford is going to come out with full guns blazing , '' Mr. Reitman says . 
`` Ford wants -LCB- Jaguar -RCB- very much . '' 
Then , Mr . Will says , `` you get a bidding war between two very rich , very determined international companies . '' 
`` There 's quite a bit of value left in the -LCB- Jaguar -RCB- shares here even though they have run up '' lately , says Doug Johnson , a fund manager for Seattle-based Safeco Asset Management . 
The risk is that Jaguar 's share price could slump if GM 's agreement with Jaguar effectively locks out its U.S. rival . 
`` Ford 's appetite to attack -LCB- Jaguar -RCB- could gradually wane over time , particularly if Saab is a reasonably attractive proposition , '' says John Lawson , an auto analyst at London 's Nomura Research Institute . 
Clifford Stahl , president and chief investment officer of C-S Capital Advisors Inc. , two weeks ago sold his Cincinnati firm 's 107,100 Jaguar ADRs at about 10 each , making a tidy profit on a holding purchased at 4 7\/8 in early May . 
`` I thought the probabilities of -LCB- a bidding war -RCB- happening were less , '' he says . 
The Redmond , Wash. company , a bellwether provider of operating systems and software for personal-computer makers and users , reported net income for the quarter ended Sept. 30 of $ 49.6 million , or 87 cents a share , up from $ 36.6 million , or 65 cents a share , in the year-ago period . 
Microsoft 's stock rose $ 2.875 a share in national over-the-counter trading to $ 78.625 . 
As a result , Microsoft 's cost of goods , as a percentage of sales , fell 17 % from the year-ago quarter and 13 % from the previous period . 
Microsoft officials said the strong results also reflected continuing high demand for its software applications and operating systems . 
While it has predicted that overall growth in unit sales of personal computers is slowing to about a 10 % yearly rate , its own products are selling at a much faster rate because many are geared to the high-performance end of the market . 
Control Data said it expects its first RISC-based mainframe machine to be introduced next year . 
UAL'S STOCK SKIDDED an additional $ 24.875 , to $ 198 , as British Airways indicated it may balk at any hastily revised version of the aborted $ 6.79 billion buy-out of United Air 's parent . 
Stock prices fell broadly in heavy trading , dominated by futures-related program selling and further declines by UAL and other airline stocks . 
The Dow Jones industrials closed off 18.65 points , at 2638.73 , after plunging over 60.25 points in the morning . 
The U.S. trade deficit swelled to $ 10.77 billion in August , prompting worries that the nation 's export drive had stalled . 
Exports declined for the second month in a row , while imports rose to a record . 
Industrial output fell 0.1 % in September , the latest sign manufacturing is slowing . 
Three big drug makers posted robust third-quarter earnings . 
McGill , a Valparaiso , Ind. , ball-bearing manufacturer , had rebuffed BroadBeach 's proposal . 
The B\/T gene rearrangement test is more accurate than existing tests for diagnosing the type of cancer , whether it has spread or whether there is a recurrence following treatment , said Oncor President Stephen Turner . 
Dr. Wyndham Wilson , a cancer treatment specialist at the National Cancer Institute , said the test is widely used in research centers but is n't having a major impact because it is only occasionally useful in choosing the most effective treatment . But the test may prove to be more sensitive in determining whether a tumor has spread or returned following treatment , Dr. Wilson said . 
Couch-potato jocks watching ABC 's `` Monday Night Football '' can now vote during halftime for the greatest play in 20 years from among four or five filmed replays . 
Interactive telephone technology has taken a new leap in sophistication , and television programmers are racing to exploit the possibilities . 
`` We 've been spending a lot of time in Los Angeles talking to TV production people , '' says Mike Parks , president of Call Interactive , which supplied technology for both ABC Sports and NBC 's consumer minutes . 
Other long-distance carriers have also begun marketing enhanced 900 service , and special consultants are springing up to exploit the new tool . 
The use of 900 toll numbers has been expanding rapidly in recent years . 
Up to now , 900 numbers have mainly been used on local TV stations and cable channels . 
MTV used one to give away the house that rock star Jon Bon Jovi grew up in . 
The newest uses of the 900-interactive technology demonstrate the growing variety of applications . 
Capital Cities\/ABC Inc. , CBS Inc. and General Electric Co. 's National Broadcasting Co. unit are expected to announce soon a joint campaign to raise awareness about hunger . 
The subject will be written into the plots of prime-time shows , and viewers will be given a 900 number to call . 
Other network applications have very different goals . 
ABC Sports was looking for ways to lift deflated halftime ratings for `` Monday Night Football . '' 
Profit from the calls goes to charity , but ABC Sports also uses the calls as a sales tool 
Profit from the calls goes to charity , but ABC Sports also uses the calls as a sales tool : After thanking callers for voting , Frank Gifford offers a football videotape for $ 19.95 , and 5 % of callers stay on the line to order it . 
Meanwhile , NBC Sports recently began `` Scores Plus , '' a year-round , 24-hour 900 line providing a complex array of scores , analysis and fan news . 
Each weekday matches a sponsor and a topic 
Viewers can call a 900 number for additional advice , which will be tailored to their needs based on the numbers they punch -LRB- `` Press one if you 're pregnant , '' etc . -RRB- . 
Diane Seaman , an NBC-TV vice president , says NBC has been able to charge premium rates for this ad time . 
Mr. Parks of Call Interactive says TV executives are considering the use of 900 numbers for `` talk shows , game shows , news and opinion surveys . '' 
Experts are predicting a big influx of new shows in 1990 , when a service called `` automatic number information '' will become widely available . 
`` Hard Copy , '' the new syndicated tabloid show from Paramount Pictures , will use its 900 number for additional purposes that include research , says executive producer Mark B. von S. Monsky . 
`` For a piece on local heroes of World War II , we can ask people to leave the name and number of anyone they know who won a medal , '' he says . 
But Mr. Monsky sees much bigger changes ahead . 
`` These are just baby steps toward real interactive video , which I believe will be the biggest thing yet to affect television , '' he says . 
Although it would be costly to shoot multiple versions , TV programmers could let audiences vote on different endings for a movie . 
Someday , viewers may also choose different depths of news coverage . 
`` A menu by phone could let you decide , ` I 'm interested in just the beginning of story No. 1 , and I want story No. 2 in depth , '' Mr. Monsky says . 
Integrated also said it expects to report a second-quarter loss wider than the earlier estimate of about $ 600 million . 
The sales force is viewed as a critical asset in Integrated 's attempt to sell its core companies . 
Numerous injuries were reported . 
Some buildings collapsed , gas and water lines ruptured and fires raged . 
The World Psychiatric Association voted at an Athens parley to conditionally readmit the Soviet Union . 
NASA postponed the liftoff of the space shuttle Atlantis because of rain near the site of the launch pad in Cape Canaveral , Fla . 
The Bush administration is seeking an understanding with Congress to ease restrictions on U.S. involvement in foreign coups that might result in the death of a country 's leader . 
An international group approved a formal ban on ivory trade despite objections from southern African governments , which threatened to find alternative channels for selling elephant tusks . 
An assassin in Colombia killed a federal judge on a Medellin street . 
Libyan leader Gadhafi met with Egypt 's President Mubarak , and the two officials pledged to respect each other 's laws , security and stability . 
UAL stock plummeted a further $ 24.875 to $ 198 on volume of more than 2.8 million shares in New York Stock Exchange composite trading . 
The stock has fallen $ 87.25 , or 31 % , in the three trading days since announcement of the collapse of the $ 300-a-share takeover jolted the entire stock market into its second-worst plunge ever . 
Adding insult to injury , United 's 25,000-member Machinists ' union , which helped scuttle financing for the first bid , yesterday asked UAL Chairman Stephen Wolf and other UAL directors to resign . 
John Peterpaul , Machinists union general vice president , attacked Mr. Wolf as `` greedy and irresponsible '' for pursuing the buy-out . 
Yesterday 's selling began after a Japanese news agency reported that Japanese banks , which balked at the first bid , were ready to reject a revised version at around $ 250 a share , or $ 5.65 billion . 
The machinists also asked for an investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission into possible securities-law violations in the original bid for UAL by Mr. Davis , as well as in the response by UAL . 
The huge drop in UAL stock prompted one takeover stock trader , George Kellner , managing partner of Kellner , DiLeo & Co. , to deny publicly rumors that his firm was going out of business . 
The stock 's decline also has left the UAL board in a quandary . 
Macmillan said Berlitz intends to pay quarterly dividends on the stock . 
Berlitz will borrow an amount equal to its expected net proceeds from the offerings , plus $ 50 million , in connection with a credit agreement with lenders . 
Right away you notice the following things about a Philip Glass concert . 
It attracts people with funny hair -LRB- or with no hair -- in front of me a girl with spiked locks sat beside a boy who had shaved his -RRB- . 
Whoever constitute the local Left Bank come out in force , dressed in black , along with a smattering of yuppies who want to be on the cutting edge . 
Currently in the middle of a four-week , 20-city tour as a solo pianist , Mr. Glass has left behind his synthesizers , equipment and collaborators in favor of going it alone . 
Either one likes it or one does n't . 
The work , though , sounds like Muzak for spaceships . 
Softly introducing and explaining his pieces , Mr. Glass looks and sounds more like a shaggy poet describing his work than a classical pianist playing a recital . 
The piano compositions , which have been labeled variously as minimalist , Oriental , repetitive , cyclical , monophonic and hypnotic , are relentlessly tonal -LRB- therefore unthreatening -RRB- , unvaryingly rhythmic -LRB- therefore soporific -RRB- , and unflaggingly harmonious but unmelodic -LRB- therefore both pretty and unconventional -RRB- . 
It is music for people who want to hear something different but do n't want to work especially hard at the task . 
Mr. Glass has inverted the famous modernist dictum `` less is more . '' 
His more is always less . 
But the music has its charm , and Mr. Glass has constructed his solo program around a move from the simple to the relatively complex . 
`` Opening '' -LRB- 1981 -RRB- , from Glassworks , introduces the audience to the Glass technique 
There is a recognizable musical style here , but not a particular performance style . 
The music is not especially pianistic ; indeed , it 's hard to imagine a bad performance of it . 
Nothing bravura , no arpeggios , no ticklish fingering problems challenge the performer . 
With `` Planet News , '' music meant to accompany readings of Allen Ginsberg 's `` Wichita Vortex Sutra , '' Mr. Glass gets going . 
His hands sit farther apart on the keyboard . 
His hands sit farther apart on the keyboard . Seventh chords make you feel as though he may break into a -LRB- very slow -RRB- improvisatory riff . 
His hands sit farther apart on the keyboard . Seventh chords make you feel as though he may break into a -LRB- very slow -RRB- improvisatory riff . The chords modulate , but there is little filigree even though his fingers begin to wander over more of the keys . 
Contrasts predictably accumulate : First the music is loud , then it becomes soft , then -LRB- you realize -RRB- it becomes louder again . 
When Mr. Glass decides to get really fancy , he crosses his hands and hits a resonant bass note with his right hand . 
He does this in at least three of his solo pieces . 
Not only is the typical Glasswork open-ended , it is also often multiple in its context -LRB- s -RRB- . 
`` Mad Rush '' began its life as the accompaniment to the Dalai Lama 's first public address in the U.S. , when Mr. Glass played it on the organ at New York 's Cathedral of St. John the Divine . Later it was performed on Radio Bremen in Germany , and then Lucinda Childs took it for one of her dance pieces . 
The evening ended with Mr. Glass 's `` Metamorphosis , '' another multiple work . 
Parts 1 , 2 , and 5 come from the soundtrack of Errol Morris 's acclaimed film , `` The Thin Blue Line , '' and the two other parts from incidental music to two separate dramatizations of the Kafka story of the same name . 
But while making the obvious point that both composers develop variations from themes , this comparison ignores the intensely claustrophobic nature of Mr. Glass 's music . 
Honeywell said it is negotiating the sale of a second stake in Yamatake-Honeywell , but indicated it intends to hold at least 20 % of the joint venture 's stock long term . 
Overall , Honeywell reported earnings of $ 74.4 million , or $ 1.73 a share , for the three months ended Oct. 1 compared with a loss of $ 41.4 million , or 98 cents a share , a year earlier . 
The previous period 's results included a $ 108 million pretax charge related to unrecoverable contract costs and a $ 12.3 million pretax gain on real estate sales . 
For the nine months , Honeywell reported earnings of $ 212.1 million , or $ 4.92 a share , compared with earnings of $ 47.9 million , or $ 1.13 a share , a year earlier . 
Once again , your editorial page misstates the law to conform to your almost beatific misperceptions . 
In an excursus of little relevance to his central point about private enforcement suits by environmental groups , Michael S. Greve informs your readers , `` ... the Clean Water Act is written upon the presumption -- the pretense , rather -- that nothing but zero risk will do 
This statement surely buttresses your editorial viewpoint that environmental protection is generally silly or excessive , but it is simply wrong . 
The Clean Water Act contains no `` legal standard '' of zero discharge . 
It requires that `` discharges of pollutants '' into the `` waters of the United States '' be authorized by permits that reflect the effluent limitations developed under section 301 . 
Perhaps Mr. Greve was confused by Congress 's meaningless statement of `` the national goal '' in section 101 , which indeed calls for the elimination of discharges -- by 1985 , no less . 
Thus , you do the public a great disservice when Mr. Greve suggests , even facetiously , that the Clean Water Act prohibits the preparation of a scotch and water 
To hear advertisers tell it , the magazine just has n't kept up with the times . 
Despite renewed interest by the public in such topics as the environment and the Third World , it has n't been able to shake its reputation as a magazine boys like to flip through in search of topless tribe women . 
Advertisers do n't think of the magazine first , says Joan McCraw , who joined in April as national advertising director . 
`` What we want to do is take a more aggressive stance . 
The 101-year-old magazine has never had to woo advertisers with quite so much fervor before . 
But this year , when the hullabaloo surrounding its centennial died , so too did some advertiser interest . 
Perhaps the biggest of those factors is its high ad prices -- $ 130,000 for a four-color page , vs. $ 47,000 for the Smithsonian , a comparable publication with a far smaller circulation . 
But Ms. McCraw says the magazine is fighting back . 
The campaign , created by Omnicom Group 's DDB Needham agency , takes advantage of the eye-catching photography that National Geographic is known for . 
In one ad , a photo of the interior of the Sainte-Chapelle in Paris is paired with the headline , `` The only book more respected than ours does n't accept advertising . '' 
Her goal : to top 300 ad pages in 1990 , up from about 274 this year . 
`` The ad campaign is meant to contemporize the thought of National Geographic , '' she says . 
WHO 'S NEWS : Stephen Novick , 49 , was named executive vice president , deputy creative director at Grey Advertising , New York . 
The issue exploded this year after a Federal Bureau of Investigation operation led to charges of widespread trading abuses at the Chicago Board of Trade and Chicago Mercantile Exchange . 
While not specifically mentioned in the FBI charges , dual trading became a focus of attempts to tighten industry regulations . 
The exchanges contend that dual trading improves liquidity in the markets because traders can buy or sell even when they do n't have a customer order in hand . 
The CFTC may take those arguments into account by allowing exceptions to its restrictions . 
The study , by the CFTC 's division of economic analysis , shows that `` a trade is a trade , '' a member of the study team said . 
Members of Congress have proposed restricting dual trading in bills to reauthorize CFTC operations . 
The House 's bill would prohibit dual trading in markets with daily average volume of 7,000 contracts or more , comprising those considered too difficult to track without a sophisticated computer system . 
So far , one test of restricting dual trading has worked well . 
The Chicago Merc banned dual trading in its Standard & Poor 's 500-stock index futures pit in 1987 . 
Under the rules , traders decide before a session begins whether they will trade for their own account or for customers . 
A Merc spokesman said the plan has n't made much difference in liquidity in the pit . 
`` It 's too soon to tell ... but people do n't seem to be unhappy with it , '' he said . 
But at a meeting last week , Tom Donovan , the Board of Trade 's president , told commodity lawyers : `` Dual trading is definitely worth saving . 
Nissan Motor Co. 's Infiniti division likes to insist that every dealer construct and furnish a building in a Japanese style . 
But only two-thirds of Lexus dealers are constructing new buildings according to the Lexus specs . 
Yet some dealers have turned down Infiniti or Lexus franchises because they were unwilling or unable to meet the design requirements . 
Lee Seidman of Cleveland says Infiniti `` was a bear on interiors '' but at least let him retrofit an existing building -- without the stream . 
PRODUCTS DON'T have to be first to be winners . 
Dictaphone Corp. was caught off guard in 1974 when its main competitor , Lanier Office Products of Japan , introduced a microcassette dictation recorder half the size of standard cassette devices . 
Blocked by patent protection from following suit , Dictaphone decided to go a step further and cut the cassette in half again -- down to the length of a paperclip . 
But others said pico should proceed . 
Dictaphone went ahead and introduced the pico in 1985 , but it has n't sold well . 
Nevertheless , the device has been successful in other ways . 
His crude device worked 
But other rake makers have their doubts . 
John Stoner , marketing director for True Temper Corp. , a subsidiary of Black & Decker , says people do n't want to move a leaf pile . 
NO MORE STUBBED toes or bruised shins , promises Geste Corp. of Goshen , Ind. , the designer of a bed support to replace traditional frames . 
The Pentagon is a haunted house . 
Living there for six years was really scary . 
Some can be bought off relatively cheaply . 
During the Korean War , Gen. Douglas MacArthur demanded and got , in addition to his U.N. command in Korea , his own naval command in Japan , NavforJapan . 
That 's about all it costs to appease Adm. Erich Raeder 's ghost . 
In 1941 , Raeder and the German navy threatened to attack the Panama Canal , so we created the Southern Command in Panama . 
The Southern Command has grown even bigger since the war because Raeder 's ghost sometimes runs through the E ring dressed like Gen. Noriega . 
The Command 's huge bureaucracy is needed to analyze whether leaders of coups against Gen. Noriega meet the War Powers Act 's six points , Cap Weinberger 's seven points , the Intelligence Committee 's 32 points and Woodrow Wilson 's 14 points necessary to justify U.S. support . 
The ghost of the Soviet brigade discovered in Cuba back in the '70s costs just a few hundred million : the price of the Caribbean Command in Key West that President Carter created in 1980 . 
George Marshall 's ghost is much more difficult to keep happy . 
We keep a lot of shrines to him around the Pentagon : statues , busts , relics and such . 
The Army headquarters on the third deck of the Pentagon used to burn a lot of incense to him , but the Navy headquarters on the fourth deck made them stop it . 
You see , Marshall had this thing about the Navy and the Marines -- he wanted to make them part of the Army but Secretary of the Navy James Forrestal blocked him . 
Which brings up the worst and meanest ghost of all -- the ghost of the shah of Iran . 
When the shah died , President Carter was so scared that the shah 's ghost would blame him for shoving him out to make way for the ayatollah that he declared the Carter Doctrine . 
But that ghost was n't fooled 
I saw what he did to them firsthand . 
It made my shoelaces dance with terror . 
Why , he used to lay in wait for Cap 
Cap added four more divisions to the Army , two active and two reserve ; two carrier groups to the Navy ; a division -- equivalent to the Marines ; and the C-5B , KC-10 , C-17 and a thousand tactical aircraft to the Air Force . 
One night both Marshall 's ghost and the shah 's ghost together caught Cap and threw him to the ground . 
Before they let him go he added a thousand bureaucrats to the RDF in Tampa and renamed it Central Command . 
Marshall figured it would be good training for those soldiers -- someday maybe they would get the whole Navy . 
We 'd get our asses kicked . '' Then suddenly Ike 's ghost came to visit and said , `` What the hell are you doing planning for a land war in Asia 12,000 miles away ? 
Still , Berbera was the best we could get , so we stay in bed with President Barrah . 
Questions like that really stir up Marshall 's ghost . 
Marshall came clanking in like Marley 's ghost dragging those chains of brigades and air wings and links with Arab despots . 
On the other hand , Mr. Cheney retained all those new land forces . 
What with Halloween coming and bigger defense cuts looming , more and more Pentagon bureaucrats are crawling under their desks . 
Then the whole thing will start to collapse , just as it did in the 1970s , and the ghosts and banshees will be howling through the place turning people 's hair white . 
At the moment , however , the painting is a nagging reminder of the problems that have engulfed CenTrust and its flamboyant chairman and chief executive , David L. Paul . 
By midnight Oct. 6 , all of the paintings were supposed to have been sold off , under orders from Florida 's comptroller , whose office regulates the state 's S&Ls . 
The collection was at the heart of a grandiose plan Mr. Paul had in which the art was to do double duty -- as an investment for CenTrust and as decoration for the S&L 's new office tower , designed by I.M. Pei . 
The rub is that the $ 28 million was plucked from the funds of this federally insured institution even as CenTrust was losing money hand over fist . 
Last spring , the comptroller 's office called a halt to Mr. Paul 's fling , giving him six months to sell the paintings . 
So far , Mr. Paul has unloaded but three of his masterpieces , he wo n't say to whom . 
`` The last six months has established the quality of the collection . 
Paintings are just part of the picture . 
Although Mr. Paul has pared a $ 1.35 billion junk-bond portfolio to less than $ 900 million since April , the high-yield debt market has plummeted . 
And CenTrust has other problems . 
Late last week federal regulators ordered the thrift institution to stop paying dividends on its preferred stock -- a move that suggests deep concern about an institution . 
It is Mr. Paul 's art venture , however , that has drawn the most attention from investors and regulators , not to mention galleries throughout the world . 
Embittered shareholders -LRB- some of whom are suing -RRB- say the chairman and his collection epitomize the excesses of speculation that set off the national S&L crisis . 
Collectors do n't say `` It 's a van Gogh '' anymore , laments Harry Brooks , the president of Wildenstein & Co. , a New York gallery . 
The great collectors we depended on , such as Paul Mellon or Norton Simon , have stopped buying , and the new buyers are brilliant men who made money in the stock market or in takeovers and rushed into collecting ... . '' 
Mr. Payson , an art dealer and collector , sold Vincent van Gogh 's `` Irises '' at a Sotheby 's auction in November 1987 to Australian businessman Alan Bond . 
He established his reputation as a freespender in January last year at Sotheby 's auction of the Linda and Gerald Guterman collection in New York . 
He paid $ 2.2 million , for instance , for a still life by Jan Jansz. den Uyl that was expected to fetch perhaps $ 700,000 . 
-LRB- Some 64 % of items offered at the Guterman auction were sold , at an average price of $ 343,333 . 
`` And he tells me , ` If you want to see your paintings , you 'll have to come to my house in Florida . ' '' 
Mr. Paul denies phoning and gloating . 
Mr. Hall says Mr. Paul `` was known to spend a lot of money . 
Mr. Paul was eager to assemble a collection for the headquarters CenTrust has been moving into for the greater part of a year . 
In March 1989 , just 15 months into his campaign , Mr. Paul was named by Art & Antiques magazine as one of the top 100 individual collectors in the U.S. . 
`` An unknown quantity to most of the art world , Paul is no stranger to lavish spending , '' the magazine said , noting that he does n't stop at paint on canvas but also spends big on art you can eat . 
`` He recently bid $ 30,000 at a Paris charity auction for a dinner cooked by six of the world 's great chefs , but the final party cost closer to $ 100,000 . '' 
The state gave CenTrust 30 days to sell the Rubens . 
In other words : Get rid of all the pictures . 
Mr. Paul says that at one point he did indeed have eight or nine of the paintings at home and that the rest were in storage at Sotheby 's . 
For instance , he got a $ 3 million loan from the S&L , negotiated at a below-market rate . 
The $ 12 million lavished on the Rubens , for example , was a record price for the artist and maybe twice its value , given a dispute among scholars about its provenance . 
David Tunick , the president of David Tunick Inc. , a New York gallery , says scholars question the authenticity of the Rubens . 
`` The feeling among many experts on the commercial side is that the price paid at the time was excessive in any event , '' Mr. Tunick says . 
Victor Wiener , the executive director of the Appraisers Association of America , agrees that Mr. Paul paid very dearly for the Rubens and adds that getting rid of it any time soon for a similar sum would be quite a feat . 
Still , predicting is tricky . 
Jonathan H. Kress , the son of the painting 's former owner , Mrs. Rush Kress , dismisses the price talk as `` sour grapes . '' 
Mr. Paul , for his part , defends the Rubens price , saying a lot of the experts have never seen the thing itself . 
Art prices are skyrocketing , but a good deal of legerdemain is involved in compiling statistics on sales . 
Salomon Brothers Inc. , the investment-banking firm , in its annual tally of investment returns , reported that old masters appreciated 51 % in the year ended June 1 , the greatest return of any of 13 assets it tracked . 
Salomon , moreover , gets its data on art appreciation from Sotheby 's , whose prices go up with clients like Mr. Paul in its thrall . 
The percentages omit from consideration the many paintings that go begging at auction . 
Also , at any of Sotheby 's auctions of old masters , roughly one-third to one-fifth of what is offered does n't sell at any price . 
Mr. Paul boasts that he spotted bargains in old masters just before they took an upward turn . 
`` They went up 51 % last year , and they 'll do it again this year , '' he declares . 
`` They were a sleeper . 
And while Sotheby 's chief rivals in the art world , private art dealers , `` wo n't be happy to hear it , '' she adds , `` a number of -LCB- the artworks -RCB- have already been sold , and at a substantial profit . '' 
Mr. Paul claims to have sold three paintings , at more than a 10 % profit . 
He furthermore denies that he relied too heavily on Sotheby 's or Mr. Wachter . 
Mr. Paul says he had not one but four advisers and that he never bid impulsively . 
That is , he is being compelled to put them on the market too soon , and has already gotten offers that are less than he paid for some of the art works . 
But quick turnover in artwork is `` like pawning your jewelry -- you end up with 50 % . 
Sotheby 's defends itself and Mr. Paul in the matter . 
Mr. Wachter says Mr. Paul was a quick study who worked intensely and bought the best pictures available at the moment . 
Naomi Bernhard Levinson , a fine-arts appraiser at Bernhard Associates in San Francisco , considers it `` definite conflict of interest for an auction house to both advise a client on purchases and to set price estimates on the paintings to be purchased . '' 
`` I ca n't see why there would be a conflict of interest , '' says Sotheby 's Ms. Levitt . 
`` Estimates are based on the previous price of similar works sold at auction and current market conditions , and are not affected by any knowledge of who the potential buyer could be . '' 
One dealer , Martin Zimet of French & Co. in New York , says he `` would have loved to buy '' a Jan Davids de Heem painting from the bank . 
`` I tried to steal the picture -- to buy it attractively -- and -LCB- Sotheby 's -RCB- would n't do it . 
Meanwhile , Mr. Paul and CenTrust executives are getting squeamish about opulence . 
Mr. Paul has been characterized as `` the Great Gatsby or something , '' complains Karen E. Brinkman , an executive vice president of CenTrust . 
Mr. Paul nods in agreement . 
Mr. Paul says , yes , the ceiling in his executive suite is gold-leaf inlay . 
`` Do n't say it 's a gold ceiling . 
The new Financial Accounting Standards Board -LRB- FASB -RRB- was created in 1972 to replace the Accounting Principles Board of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants . 
The climate was right for the new FASB . 
The FASB had its initial meeting on March 28 , 1973 . 
On Dec. 13 , 1973 , it issued its first rule 
On Dec. 13 , 1973 , it issued its first rule ; it required companies to disclose foreign currency translations in U.S. dollars . 
This Los Angeles company and its Union Federal Savings Bank subsidiary said more than 99 % of their 7 1\/4 % convertible subordinated debentures due 2011 were tendered for conversion into UnionFed common stock . 
As president , Mr. Lung , 42 years old , succeeds his father , Mervin D. Lung , 66 , who founded the company in 1959 . 
Reynolds Metals Co. said third-quarter net income dropped nearly 10 % to $ 123.7 million , or $ 2.10 a share , from $ 137.2 million , or $ 2.56 a share , a year earlier . 
Reynolds Metals Co. said third-quarter net income dropped nearly 10 % to $ 123.7 million , or $ 2.10 a share , from $ 137.2 million , or $ 2.56 a share , a year earlier . The latest earnings reflect an increase of about 5.5 million in common shares outstanding . 
Reynolds is the third big aluminum company since Friday to report disappointing earnings . 
The No. 1 domestic aluminum producer , Aluminum Co. of America , Friday said its earnings fell 3.2 % to $ 219 million , or $ 2.46 a share . And Alcan Aluminium Ltd. yesterday reported net income slid 30 % to $ 180 million , or 77 cents a share , from $ 258 million , or $ 1.07 a share . 
The base metal price has dropped 30.3 % from a year earlier to 78 cents a pound . 
But William O. Bourke , chairman and chief executive officer , said the ingot price `` appears to have bottomed out . '' 
He said shipments are continuing at a `` healthy '' pace and the company has no excess inventory . 
But quite a few money managers are n't buying it . 
`` The stock market ai n't going to do much of anything '' for a while , says John Neff of Wellington Management , who runs the $ 8.3 billion Windsor Fund . 
Bulls say the market is an incredible bargain , priced at only about 12 times estimated 1989 earnings for stocks in the Standard & Poor 's 500 index . 
The common view , says Abby Cohen , strategist for Drexel Burnham Lambert , is that there will be `` mild economic growth , modest profit expansion , and things are going to be hunky-dory . 
Our view is that we may see a profit decline . '' 
Some think investors should sell into rallies . 
The market `` is going to wind down , '' says Gerald W. Perritt , a Chicago money manager . 
`` Things are a little less overpriced '' after Friday 's jolt in the market . 
After Friday 's decline , Mr. Perritt 's firm ran statistical tests on 100 high-quality stocks , using old-fashioned value criteria devised by Benjamin Graham , an analyst and author in the 1930s and 1940s who is widely considered to be the father of modern securities analysis . 
Nicholas Parks , a New York money manager , expects the market to decline about 15 % . 
`` I 've been two-thirds in cash since July , and I continue to think that having a defensive position is appropriate , '' he says . 
Money manager Robert Ross , head of Duncan Ross Associates Ltd. in Vancouver , British Columbia , says stocks would have to fall 15 % to 20 % before they are competitive with less risky investment alternatives . 
There are still bulls out there . 
`` I still think we will have a 3000 Dow , whether it 's six months or 12 months from now I do n't know , '' says David Dreman , managing partner of Dreman Value Management in New York . 
Many brokerage house officials also are optimistic . 
Yesterday , Goldman Sachs , Merrill Lynch and Dean Witter all increased the proportion of assets they recommend investors commit to stocks . 
Some investors say Friday 's sell-off was a good thing , because it deflated a lot of crazy takeover speculation . 
`` The fundamentals are pretty strong , '' Mr. Dreman says . 
`` I do n't see this as a bear market at all . 
Friday 's big fall was `` just a blunder by the stock market , '' says John Connolly , chief strategist for Dean Witter . 
Many investors have nagging worries , however . 
Newspapers are full of headlines about companies defaulting on their debts and banks writing off real estate loans . 
Not even all the brokerage firms see clear sailing ahead . 
She thinks the market could drop about 10 % in the next few months , then recover and go higher . 
Managers at five chains have said in recent weeks that they intend to bid for their companies . 
`` The pricing will become more realistic , which should help management , '' said Bruce Rosenthal , a New York investment banker with Nathan S. Jonas & Co . 
Earlier this year , bankers and other investors were willing to provide financing because they assumed there would be major gains in both profitability and sales , Mr. Rosenthal added . 
`` But when prices were crazy , it was even harder to do an LBO . 
Bankers believed in the greater-fool theory that says somebody else is always willing to pay more . 
`` It would also help us in our search for equity partners . 
'' None believe the proposed management LBOs will be easy to complete , especially at B. Altman & Co. , which is under Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection . 
Further , many institutions today holding troubled retailers ' debt securities will be reticent to consider additional retailing investments . 
`` It 's called bad money driving out good money , '' said one retailing observer . 
`` What 's encouraging about this is that retail chains will be sold on the basis of their sales and earnings , not liquidation values , '' said Joseph E. Brooks , chairman and chief executive officer of Ann Taylor Inc. , a specialty chain . 
`` But the hurdle of financing still has to be resolved . 
Judge John E. Sprizzo issued the order in Manhattan federal court , where Sony has accused the tiny company of illegally knocking off the `` My First Sony '' line . 
According to industry lawyers , the ruling gives pipeline companies an important second chance to resolve remaining disputes and take advantage of the cost-sharing mechanism . 
MEDUSA Corp. said it voluntarily prepaid $ 7 million on its original $ 75 million term loan , bringing the total debt reduction for the year to $ 18 million . 
Among other things , the restructured facilities will substantially reduce the group 's required amortization of the term loan portion of the credit facilities through September 1992 , MLX said . 
Certain details of the restructured facilities remain to be negotiated . 
Mr. Kossuth , 52 years old , succeeds Ermanno Pascutto , 36 , who resigned to join Hong Kong 's Securities and Futures Commission . 
But opponents fear overcrowding . 
Not all Poles are pleased . 
Algeria plans to increase natural-gas sales to Europe and the U.S. . 
The Swedish publishers of a new Estonian-language newspaper rushed an extra edition across the Baltic on Oct. 10 after the first run sold out in one day . 
Editor Hasse Olsson said plans had called for 7,000 copies of the monthly Are Paev -LRB- Business Paper -RRB- to be sold at newsstands and an additional 3,000 promotion issues to be sent by direct mail . 
China 's top film actress , Liu Xiaoqing , paid $ 4,555 in back taxes and fines in Shandong province , the People 's Daily reported . 
THE R.H. MACY & CO . department-store chain is n't for sale . 
They are enjoying domestic sales that are more than making up for lost overseas sales . 
As it is , waiting lists of a month are n't unusual for popular models . 
Demand is so strong that all of the domestic makers -- Hyundai , Kia Motors Corp. , Daewoo Motor Co. and even upstart SsangYong Motor Co. -- plan to build more factories . 
But South Korean auto makers are confident that the export market will bounce back and that demand in Korea will stay strong . 
Currently only one in 38 South Koreans owns a car , up from one in 200 a decade ago . 
`` In the year 2000 it will be one car per family . 
The reason for the tremendous demand is simple 
The reason for the tremendous demand is simple : South Koreans suddenly have a lot more money . 
A part of the construction-oriented conglomerate SsangYong Group , it took over the dying Dong-A Motor Co. in 1986 . 
SsangYong began making variations of the Jeep-like `` Korando '' vehicle . -LRB- Dong-A had had a technology agreement with Jeep maker American Motors Corp. , now a part of Chrysler Corp . -RRB- 
The four-wheel-drive vehicles start at $ 15,000 
SsangYong , which has only about 3 % of the domestic market , will sell about 18,000 of its models this year , twice as many as last year . 
Kia , the only Korean car maker that has seen its overseas sales grow in 1989 , aims at Korea 's common man . 
Its advantage has been the peppy little Pride , sold as the Ford Festiva in the U.S. . 
Kia is the most aggressive of the Korean Big Three in offering financing . 
Daewoo Motor , a 50-50 joint venture with General Motors Corp. and the Daewoo Group conglomerate , is the only auto maker that appears to be hurting . 
Kia is reportedly also considering such a plan . 
Even giant Samsung Group is rumored in the Korean press to be considering getting into the auto-making business 
Robert P. Bulseco , 44 years old , was named president and chief administrative officer of this regional commercial bank . 
Net outflows from Fidelity 's stock funds stood at less than $ 300 million , or below 15 % of the $ 2 billion cash position of the firm 's stock portfolios . 
Much of the money was switched into the firm 's money market funds . 
`` Two years ago , there was a lot of redemption activity and trouble with people getting through on the phone , '' said Kathryn McGrath , head of the investment management division of the Securities and Exchange Commission . 
But funds generally are better prepared this time around . 
As a group , their cash position of 10.2 % of assets in August -- the latest figure available -- is 14 % higher than two years earlier . 
The biggest flurry of investor activity came early in the day . 
Vanguard Group Inc. saw heavy exchanges from stock funds into money market funds after the telephone lines opened at 8:30 a.m . 
At Scudder , Stevens & Clark Inc. , phone calls came in at 40 % more than the normal pace through early afternoon . 
At Scudder and at the smaller Ivy funds group in Hingham , Mass. , for instance , some shareholders called early in the morning to switch money from stock funds to money market funds , but later called back to reverse the switches . 
Instead of selling bonds to meet redemptions , however , some funds have borrowed from banks to meet withdrawal requests . 
This avoids knocking down prices further . Instead of selling bonds to meet redemptions , however , some funds have borrowed from banks to meet withdrawal requests . 
That way , Mr. Collins says , `` We did n't have to sell securities in a sloppy market . '' 
Amcore , also a bank holding company , has assets of $ 1.06 billion . 
But the new lens became the eye of a storm . 
In September 1971 California officials seized `` bootlegged '' lenses -- made by unlicensed companies -- after some showed traces of bacteria . 
And there were Senate hearings on the questions in July 1972 . 
The early soft lenses , which cost $ 300 a set , were expected to last for a year . 
In 1983 `` extended wear '' versions , designed to be worn for 30 days at a time , wree offered . 
In the wake of Friday 's plunge and yesterday 's rebound , some companies are already postponing deals , and others wish they could . 
`` The implication of an unsettled situation is that the thing could drop dramatically , '' says Henry Linsert Jr. , chairman of Martek Corp. , a four-year-old biotechnology company that is planning a private placement of stock . 
Earlier this month , Staples Inc. , a Newton , Mass. , office-supplies discounter , said it would accelerate expansion plans nationwide and offer more of its stock to the public . 
Other companies figure they ca n't avoid the market . 
`` We have capital requirements , '' says Mr. Linsert , `` so we have to go ahead '' with a planned $ 1.5 billion private placement . 
Life is particularly nerve-racking for companies that had planned to go public this week . 
Robertson , Stephens & Co. , a San Francisco investment banking concern , has a client that looked forward to making its initial public offering yesterday . 
Officers of the company , a health-care concern , `` were very discouraged on Friday and felt they should n't go public 
As the market dropped Friday , Robertson Stephens slashed the value of the offering by 7 % . 
For many , the situation is especially discouraging because the market for IPOs was showing signs of strengthening after several years of weakness . 
Companies planning to go public `` are definitely taking a second look , '' says Allen Hadhazy , senior analyst at the Institute for Econometric Research , Fort Lauderdale , Fla. , which publishes the New Issues newsletter on IPOs . 
Many companies are hesitating . 
But now , Peter Behrendt , president , says , `` We 're making decisions on a day-to-day basis . '' 
KnowledgeWare Inc. , an Atlanta computer-software concern , says it is still planning to go ahead with its IPO this week or next -- unless conditions change . 
Delayed financings also would affect the operations of many companies . 
William O'Donnell , president , says he still thinks the IPO will succeed . 
But the market turmoil could be partially beneficial for some small businesses . 
James G. Zafris , president of Danvers Savings Bank , Danvers , Mass. , says the market turmoil `` is an absolute non-event for small business . '' 
Peter Drake , biotechnology analyst for Vector Securities International , Chicago , thinks market uncertainty may encourage small companies to form more strategic alliances with big corporations . 
Partly because the 1987 market crash made it harder for them to find financing , many high-technology concerns have made such alliances recently . 
Some even see a silver lining in the dark clouds . 
And William E. Wetzel Jr. , a University of New Hampshire management professor and director of Venture Capital Network Inc. , says the market 's gyrations will underline the investors ' lack of control in big stock investments . 
Bay said a `` substantial part '' of its debt outstanding is in default as a result of inability to sell certain properties quickly and lower-than-expected prices for sales made . 
The company said it had a net loss in its fourth quarter ended June 30 of $ 36.2 million , or $ 9.33 a share , on revenue of $ 13.1 million . 
For the year , it had a net loss of $ 62 million , or $ 15.97 a share , on revenue of $ 44.3 million . 
Although it is having serious cash-flow problems , Bay said the fair-market value of its holdings , minus debt , was equal to $ 6.02 a share at June 30 based on a recent appraisal . 
Results for the 1988 quarter included a gain of $ 1.05 a share from sale of the Reda Pump and Oilwell Cable units , partly offset by a charge of 69 cents a share for recall of faulty truck steering systems . 
Automotive sales jumped 16 % to $ 791 million , mainly because of higher sales of air bags and other passenger restraint systems , TRW said . 
For the nine months , TRW 's net was $ 199 million , or $ 3.22 a share , down 3 % from $ 205 million , or $ 3.33 a share , a year earlier . 
In fact , Kazuo Ishiguro 's `` The Remains of the Day '' -LRB- Knopf , 245 pages , $ 18.95 -RRB- is both an homage to traditional English forms and a dramatic critique of them . 
As the narrator Stevens , the solitary butler of Darlington Hall , mulls over such hallowed terms as `` greatness , '' `` dignity , '' `` service '' and `` loyalty , '' we see how pious cant subverts the soul . 
Stevens 's dutiful conflation of the public and private realms -- like his beloved master 's -- destroys all it was designed to preserve . 
Such armor crushes the soldier . 
Yet I would venture that the landscape of our country alone would justify the use of this lofty adjective ... . 
It is the very lack of obvious drama or spectacle that sets the beauty of our land apart . 
What is pertinent is the calmness of that beauty , its sense of restraint . 
But let Stevens continue in his unwitting comic manner -LRB- his conscious efforts at `` banter '' always fail -- most comically -RRB- : `` This whole question is very akin to the question that has caused much debate in our profession over the years : what is a ` great ' butler ? '' 
His answer is one `` possessed of a dignity in keeping with his position . '' 
Such dignity `` has to do crucially with a butler 's ability not to abandon the professional being he inhabits . '' 
He `` will not be shaken out by external events , however surprising , alarming or vexing ... . 
Despite his racial advantage , to be a great butler is a heroic calling 
If , for example , in the midst of a great social occasion -LRB- such as an international conference on revising the Versailles Treaty in 1923 -RRB- , one 's 72-yearold father , himself a great butler once , should happen to die of a stroke , one must continue to serve the port : `` Please do n't think me unduly improper in not ascending to see my father in his deceased condition just at this moment . 
Now shifting his scene from the country he left at five to the England he has lived in for nearly 30 years , he has fashioned a novel in the mode of Henry James and E.M. Forster . 
With great aplomb he considers not only filial devotion and -LRB- utterly repressed -RRB- sexual love , but British anti-Semitism , the gentry 's impatience with democracy and support of Hitler , and the moral problematics of loyalty : `` It is , in practice , simply not possible to adopt such a critical attitude towards an employer and at the same time provide good service ... . 
` This employer embodies all that I find noble and admirable . 
I will hereafter devote myself to serving him . ` This employer embodies all that I find noble and admirable . 
In the end , after meeting with the former housekeeper , Stevens sits by the seashore at dusk , thinking of her and of his employer , and declares `` I trusted . 
I trusted in his lordship 's wisdom ... . 
I ca n't even say I made my own mistakes . 
That 's not all , he says . 
Aer Rianta , the Irish airport authority , could build a cargo terminal in the Soviet Union . 
Have the freedoms of glasnost gone to Mr. Ovcharenko 's head ? Hardly . 
The Irish-Soviet aviation connection is alive and well here at Shannon Airport . 
GPA is indeed talking about leasing Western planes to Aeroflot and even about buying Soviet-built Tupolev 204s . 
GPA is indeed talking about leasing Western planes to Aeroflot and even about buying Soviet-built Tupolev 204s . Aer Lingus is in discussions with the Soviet carrier about a cargo venture and other possibilities . 
`` Irish and Soviet people are similar , '' says Mr. Ovcharenko . 
`` They look the same . 
Moreover , he says , Irish companies are small but spunky . 
`` We have to study their experience very well , '' he says . 
Aeroflot carried about 125 million passengers last year , and Shannon Airport , the airline 's largest transit airport outside the Soviet Union , saw 1,400 Aeroflot flights and 250,000 passengers pass through . 
The airport 's biggest supplier of aircraft fuel is the Soviet Union . 
Tankers from the Latvian port of Ventspils each year unload 25 million gallons of fuel into a special tank farm at the airport . 
That is n't all . 
Last year , the Irish airport authority , in a joint venture with Aeroflot , opened four hard-currency duty-free shops at Moscow 's Sheremetyevo Airport . 
Last year , the Irish airport authority , in a joint venture with Aeroflot , opened four hard-currency duty-free shops at Moscow 's Sheremetyevo Airport . Aer Rianta now manages duty-free sales on all Aeroflot international flights out of Moscow . 
Aeroflot 's international fleet of 285 planes is being repainted and refurbished at Shannon Airport . 
Thanks to a new air-traffic agreement and the ability of Irish travel agents to issue Aeroflot tickets , tourists here are taking advantage of Aeroflot 's reasonable prices to board flights in Shannon for holidays in Havana , Kingston and Mexico City . 
The round-trip fare to Havana is 410 Irish punts -LRB- $ 578 -RRB- . 
It all started with geography . 
When it opened in 1939 , Shannon was the first landfall in Europe for thirsty airplanes flying from North America . 
Output in the energy sector , which can vary greatly with swings in the oil market , rose 3.8 % in August from May but was down 7.1 % from a year earlier . 
The new technology , which creates a very thin piece of steel , radically reduces the costs of making flat-rolled sheets . 
`` We 've had the Russians and Chinese , and people from India visiting us , '' Mr. Iverson beams . 
Especially his neighbors , the major U.S. steelmakers . 
Already , USX Corp. and Armco Inc. are studying Nucor 's technology to see if they can adopt it . 
The once-staid steel industry is about to be turned topsy-turvy by a 1990s technology revolution . 
But such thin-slab technology is only the beginning . 
Eager engineers espouse direct-steelmaking and direct casting , which by the end of the 1990s will enable production without coke ovens and blast furnaces . 
But that wo n't suffice . 
`` It 's no longer enough to beat the guy down the street . 
You have to beat everyone around the world , '' says Mr. Dennis . 
`` The technology revolution is going to be very threatening to established producers , '' says Peter Marcus , an analyst with PaineWebber Inc . 
No one expects minimills to eclipse major integrated steelmakers , who remain the undisputed kings of highest-quality steel used for autos and refrigerators . 
Moreover , the process is n't without its headaches . 
Because all operations are connected , one equipment failure forces a complete plant shutdown . 
Indeed , with demand for steel not growing fast enough to absorb capacity , steelmakers will have to change the way they do business . 
In the past , says Armco 's chief economist John Corey , steelmakers made a product and set it out on the loading dock . 
`` We said : ` We 've got a product : if you want it , you can buy it 
But steelmakers must also find new markets . 
Weirton Steel Corp. , Weirton , W. Va. , for example , is touting to homeowners fashionable steel doors , with leaded glass inserts , as a secure and energy-efficient alternative to wooden or aluminum ones . 
Still others are looking at overseas markets . 
USX is funneling drilling pipe to steel-hungry Soviet Union . 
Producers also are trying to differentiate by concentrating on higher-profit output , such as coated and electrogalvanized products , which remain beyond the reach of minimills . 
But unfortunately , that segment is much smaller than the bread-and-butter flat-rolled steel . 
`` It 's like everyone climbing out of the QE II and getting into a lifeboat , '' says John Jacobson , an analyst with AUS Consultants . 
`` After a while , someone has to go over the side . '' 
Robert Crandall , with the Brookings Institute , agrees . 
Not to mention the incursion of imports . 
Moreover , the U.S. can expect more competition from low-cost producing Pacific Rim and Latin American countries . 
`` People think of the steel business as an old and mundane smokestack business , '' says Mr. Iverson . 
Most have read the pre-trial documents , however , and estimate Kodak will be ordered to pay $ 1 billion to $ 1.5 billion for infringing on seven Polaroid patents . 
Few analysts think it is worth their time to slog through the Polaroid trial testimony . 
`` It 's like panning for gold outside of Grand Central Station . 
The main issues remaining are how to calculate damages and whether the infringement was `` willful and deliberate . '' 
Mr. Crary said testimony by Kodak 's patent counsel , Francis T. Carr of Kenyon & Kenyon , showed that `` he worked with Kodak continuously from the outset of the project '' in an effort to avoid infringement . 
But Irving Kayton , a patent expert at George Mason University School of Law who is familiar with the case , said the fact that seven patents were infringed `` suggests that infringement was willful . 
Observers also wonder whether Judge Mazzone will use the lost-profits method of determining damages , which Polaroid favors because it would result in a larger award , or the reasonable royalty method . 
Each side has called a Harvard Business School professor to testify on that issue . 
Earnings fell to $ 877 million , or $ 1.51 a share , somewhat below securities analysts ' revised expectations of around $ 1.60 a share . 
IBM , Armonk , N.Y. , remained upbeat . 
The computer giant , whose U.S. results have been dismal for years , noted that revenue rose again in the U.S. in the third quarter , following an increase in the second period . 
The company said in a statement that `` demand for IBM products and services continues to be good world-wide . 
Securities analysts , however , remained downbeat . 
On leasing , Bob Djurdjevic at Annex Research said he thinks IBM has hurt itself unnecessarily . 
But he said IBM would have won the business anyway as a sale to a third party that would have then leased the equipment to the customer . 
In the nine months , IBM earned $ 3.17 billion , or $ 5.43 a share , down 8.4 % from the year-earlier $ 3.46 billion , or $ 5.83 a share . 
D. Wayne Calloway , also chief executive officer of the company , indicated that he expects analysts to raise their forecasts for 1989 after the company releases its earnings today . 
So far , analysts have said they are looking for $ 3.30 to $ 3.35 a share . 
Mr. Calloway blamed the slower volume on rainier weather , a dearth of new products in the industry and -- to a much lesser extent -- pricing . 
Mr. Calloway also noted that soft-drink volume rose a hefty 9 % in last year 's third quarter , making the comparison more difficult . 
Snack-food tonnage increased a strong 7 % in the third quarter , while domestic profit increased in double digits , Mr. Calloway said . 
Led by Pizza Hut and Taco Bell , restaurant earnings increased about 25 % in the third quarter on a 22 % sales increase . 
Same-store sales for Pizza Hut rose about 13 % , while Taco Bell 's increased 22 % , as the chain continues to benefit from its price-value strategy . 
Taco Bell has turned around declining customer counts by permanently lowering the price of its tacos . 
The provincially owned utility said it is tearing up the deal because `` the contract 's objectives ca n't be fulfilled . '' 
Hydro-Quebec said Maine regulators ' refusal to approve the contract earlier this year halted work on transmission lines and stopped negotiations for resale of electricity carried through Maine to other utilities . 
Hydro-Quebec said Maine regulators ' refusal to approve the contract means Central Maine Power has lost its place in line . 
`` We wo n't sign any new contracts -LCB- with deliveries -RCB- beginning earlier than 2000 , '' the Hydro-Quebec official said . 
He said Hydro-Quebec already has some `` customers in mind '' for the power that was to be delivered to Maine . 
Jeffrey Miller of Miller Tabak Hirsch & Co. said that given the high degree of leverage in the options market , it is `` very easy for these guys to get wiped out . 
Options traders who , in return for a small fee , or premium , had previously sold put options on stocks or stock indexes were forced on Friday to buy those contracts back at the previously agreed prices , which were substantially above those in the market as it was falling . 
CBOE Chairman Alger `` Duke '' Chapman , said that , unlike the futures market , the options exchange has to open in a rotation that allows each different options series to trade . 
The damage was so bad at Fossett Corp. , an options trading firm here , that it was forced to transfer its accounts to First Options of Chicago , a unit of Continental Bank Corp. , as a result of options trading losses . 
`` Steve and his firm were still worth a lot of money , '' Mr. Rawls said . 
A federal official said that Continental Bank worked with securities and banking regulators over the weekend to fashion the Fossett bailout , but that conditions were n't dictated by those agencies . 
Officials at Options Clearing Corp. , which processes all options trades for U.S. exchanges , said that the $ 50 million guarantee was unprecedented , but was necessary to help insure the integrity of the options markets . 
Debora Foster takes off her necklace , settles herself on a padded chair and gently leans forward . 
With a jazz-piano tape playing softly in the background , the soothing hands of Sabina Vidunas begin to work on Ms. Foster 's neck and shoulders . 
Although such sessions may never replace coffee breaks , on-site massage , as it is known in the trade , is certainly infiltrating corporate America . 
`` The blood flows to your head , you feel lightheaded and you do n't feel tension around the head or neck , '' says Minnie Morey , an operations supervisor at the Social Security office in Grand Rapids , Mich. , where massages began last month . 
Not everyone , however , is at ease with office massage . 
Last month , the complaints intensified and the massages ended . 
Massage also has an image problem to contend with . 
Phil Harms , a software engineer , was an eager customer . 
But after about eight months , the vice president of the division , Ed Soule , learned about the sessions and brought them to a halt . 
Mr. Soule says his only beef was that the massages were being given in a company conference room 
Mr. Soule says his only beef was that the massages were being given in a company conference room ; the department 's supervised health facility would have been fine . 
Given such attitudes , some corporate masseurs prefer to go about their business quietly . 
He visits the same department every two or three weeks . 
`` This is common with a lot of large companies , '' says Mr. Borner , who worked for American Telephone & Telegraph Co. for 23 years before choosing his current trade . 
My vision is to change human consciousness towards touch . 
Occasionally , all that 's needed is a little coaxing . 
`` I pull my hair back , wear a little makeup and look corporate , '' says Ms. Byler , who has been visiting Emerson since January . 
The self-proclaimed father of on-site massage is David Palmer , a 41-year-old San Francisco masseur whose mission is to save the touch-starved masses . 
`` The culture is not ready to take off its clothes , lie down and be touched for an hour for $ 45 , '' he says . 
`` The idea is to keep the clothes on and to keep people seated . 
Sitting in one of Mr. Palmer 's chairs , which cost $ 425 and have since been copied by others , is a bit like straddling a recliner . 
Customers lean forward , rest their knees on side supports and bury their face in padding on the back of the chair . 
Scot MacInnis , a masseur in Boulder , Colo. , had a scary experience while massaging a man in a natural-foods supermarket as part of a store promotion . 
Three minutes into the massage , the man curled up , began shaking and turned red . 
`` But he pulled through , and after the ambulance left , there were still six people in line waiting for a massage . 
Despite the number of fans that office massage has won , some purists look down on it , arguing that naked , full-body rubs are the only way to go . 
`` Whole areas of their bodies are neglected , '' she says , adding that clothes ruin the experience . 
The decision to cancel the loan exemplifies the tough attitude bankers have taken toward China since June 4 . 
Many loans are being renegotiated , especially those tied to the hotel sector , which has been hit hard by a post-June 4 tourism slump . 
The canceled Shanghai loan leaves Asia Development , a small concern , saddled with a half-completed 32-story apartment building and heavy debts . 
The project , known as Lotus Mansion , has been mired in controversy . 
When the loan agreement was announced , it was hailed as one of the first Western-style financing transactions ever used in China . 
Instead , the banks secured a promise from state-owned Bank of Communications that it would lend Asia Development the entire $ 55 million at maturity to finance repayment of the original borrowing . 
Warehouse clubs typically carry general merchandise and food products , which they sell for close to wholesale prices in no-frills stores . 
The company had losses for several years before turning profitable in fiscal 1988 . 
But some analysts contend K mart has agreed to pay too much for Pace . 
`` Even if you look at it as a turnaround situation , it 's expensive , '' said Wayne Hood of Prudential-Bache Securities Inc . 
Ms. McGlade of PaineWebber raised a more fundamental question about the deal . 
`` If K mart ca n't get its act together in discounting , why is it spending time worrying about other growing markets ? '' 
She said , `` I would say K mart 's number one job is to address its market-share loss -LCB- in discount stores -RCB- , which longer-term will lead to improved profit margins . 
In composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange , K mart closed yesterday at $ 36 a share , up 12.5 cents . 
Among the conditions of the offer is that Pace shareholders tender a majority of the company 's shares outstanding . 
Traders nervously watching their Quotron electronic-data machines yesterday morning were stunned to see the Dow Jones Industrial Average plummet 99 points in seconds . 
`` It was crazy , '' said Neil Weisman , general partner of Chilmark Capital Corp . 
But those who said `` This ca n't be happening '' were right . 
Quotron Systems Inc. , a Citicorp unit , blamed the 30-minute foul-up on `` a timing problem in our software '' caused by the enormous early volume -- about 145 million shares in the first hour of New York Stock Exchange trading . 
Meanwhile , there was an awful lot of confusion . 
And there were other blunders . 
When the market opened at 9:30 a.m. EST , a reporter for the Reuters newswire miscalculated the industrial average 's drop as a 4 % decline when it really was down 0.7 % . 
But it was the Quotron problems that had lingering effects . 
It was the second time in less than a week that Quotron has had problems calculating the industrial average . 
At the start of trading last Wednesday , the average appeared to plunge more than 200 points . 
A Quotron spokeswoman said recent software changes may have contributed to yesterday 's problems . 
`` Today of all days , '' she lamented . 
Steven F. Kaplan was named a senior vice president of this graphics equipment company . 
Ms. Parks 's mother also gets to cuff Mr. Alexander . 
When Ms. Parks and her mother heard about what had happened , Mr. Friend says , they volunteered that they would like to give Mr. Alexander a good walloping . 
Although time and place have yet to be determined , some details are in place . 
Mr. Friend says he agreed to strike Mr. Alexander above the belt . 
Ms. Parks and her mother indicated they want to `` catch him unawares from behind , '' he says . 
However , he acknowledges they `` have the option of taking a swat at me if they really want to . '' 
Mr. Friend says his side is `` dead serious . '' 
Many institutions and individual investors have shied away from stock-index futures , blaming them for speeding the stock market crash on Black Monday two years ago . 
More than 400 traders jammed the S&P 500 futures pit to await the opening bell . 
But several traders quickly stepped up and bid for contracts , driving prices sharply higher . 
`` Traders five feet from each other were making bids and offers that were a full point apart , '' said one S&P 500 broker . 
Several of Wall Street 's largest securities firms , including Salomon Brothers Inc. and PaineWebber Inc. , were also large buyers , traders said . 
But the junk recovery , led by the bellwether RJR Holdings bonds , was precarious . 
No trading existed for the vast majority of junk bonds , securities industry officials said . 
At Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. , the leading underwriter of junk bonds , `` I was prepared to be in a very bad mood tonight , '' said David Feinman , a junk bond trader . 
Analysts are concerned that much of the high-yield market will remain treacherous for investors . 
`` Junk bonds are a highly stratified market , '' said Lewis Glucksman , vice chairman of Smith Barney , Harris Upham & Co . 
Analysts at Standard & Poor 's say junk bond offerings by `` tightly stretched '' issuers seem to be growing . 
`` You could still have some very bad times ahead , '' said Mr. Bachmann . 
`` It 's possible to have a 10 % default rate in one year , because we 're already seeing big problems in the midst of a pretty strong economy . 
But yesterday 's rally among `` good '' junk was a badly needed tonic for the market . 
`` Sometimes a shakeout is healthy , '' said Drexel 's Mr. Feinman . 
`` People will learn to be more circumspect . 
If they do good credit analysis , they will avoid the hand grenades . 
Mr. Trump , who vowed Wednesday to `` go forward '' with the bid , said he was dropping it `` in light of the recent change in market conditions . '' 
Some said Friday 's market debacle had given Mr. Trump an excuse to bail out of an offer that showed signs of stalling even before problems emerged with the UAL deal . 
`` He still has n't proven his mettle as a big-league take-out artist , '' said airline analyst Kevin Murphy of Morgan Stanley & Co . 
`` He 's done this thing where he 'll buy a little bit of a company and then trade out of it . 
He 's written this book , ` The Art of the Deal . ' 
Mr. Trump withdrew his bid before the AMR board , which is due to meet tomorrow , ever formally considered it . 
AMR had also sought to foil Mr. Trump in Congress by lobbying for legislation that would have bolstered the authority of the Transportation Department to reject airline buy-outs . 
Some analysts said they believed Mr. Trump , whose towering ego had been viewed by some as a reason to believe he would n't back out , might come back with a lower bid . 
Ray Neidl of Dillon Read & Co. said Mr. Trump `` is stepping back and waiting for the dust to settle . 
But others remained skeptical . 
`` I was never sure Donald Trump really wanted to take AMR , '' said John Mattis , a bond analyst with Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc . 
At $ 250 a share , the group would have to borrow about $ 6.1 billion from banks . 
The first UAL deal unraveled after Citibank and Chase could n't raise $ 7.2 billion . 
But other banks balked at the low interest rate and banking fees the UAL group was willing to pay them . 
Nor is the group likely to come forward with a revised offer within the next 48 hours despite the hopes of many traders . 
UAL 's board could reject the new price as too low , especially since there are n't any competing bids . 
The pilots could play hardball by noting they are crucial to any sale or restructuring because they can refuse to fly the airplanes . 
Also , because UAL Chairman Stephen Wolf and other UAL executives have joined the pilots ' bid , the board might be forced to exclude him from its deliberations in order to be fair to other bidders . 
