Ms. Haag plays Elianti . 
The new rate will be payable Feb. 15 . 
A record date has n't been set . 
The oboist Heinz Holliger has taken a hard line about the problem : He commissions and splendidly interprets fearsome contemporary scores and does some conducting , so he does n't have to play the same Mozart and Strauss concertos over and over again . 
Years ago , he collaborated with the new music gurus Peter Serkin and Fred Sherry in the very countercultural chamber group Tashi , which won audiences over to dreaded contemporary scores like Messiaen 's `` Quartet for the End of Time . '' 
Just the thing for the Vivaldi-at-brunch set , the yuppie audience that has embraced New Age as its very own easy listening . 
He believes in what he plays , and he plays superbly . 
His recent appearance at the Metropolitan Museum , dubbed `` A Musical Odyssey , '' was a case in point . 
It felt more like a party , or a highly polished jam session with a few friends , than a classical concert . 
He launched into Saint-Saens 's `` The Swan '' from `` Carnival of the Animals , '' a favorite encore piece for cellists , with lovely , glossy tone and no bite . 
Mr. Stoltzman introduced his colleagues : Bill Douglas , pianist\/bassoonist\/composer and an old buddy from Yale , and jazz bassist Eddie Gomez . 
An improvisational section was built around pieces by Mr. Douglas , beginning with `` Golden Rain , '' a lilting , laid-back lead in to the uptempo `` Sky , '' which gave Mr. Stoltzman the opportunity to wail in a high register and show off his fleet fingers . 
Bach 's `` Air '' followed . 
Mr. Stoltzman tied the composer in by proclaiming him `` the great improviser of the 18th century , '' and then built on the image by joining with Mr. Douglas in some Bach two-part inventions , cleverly arranged for clarinet and bassoon by Mr. Douglas . 
Glamorous and pure-voiced as ever , Ms. Collins sang Joni Mitchell 's `` For Free '' -- about an encounter with a street-corner clarinetist , to which Mr. Stoltzman contributed a clarinet obligatto -- and Mr. Douglas 's lush setting of a Gaelic blessing , `` Deep Peace . '' 
It was all too mellow to be believed , but they probably would have gotten away with it , had they not felt compelled to add Ms. Collins 's signature tune , `` Amazing Grace , '' and ask for audience participation . 
That went over the permissible line for warm and fuzzy feelings . 
Either way it was a pity , because Mr. Stolzman offered the most substantial music of the evening just after intermission : Steve Reich 's `` New York Counterpoint , '' one of a series of Reich works that juxtapose a live performer with recorded tracks of his or her own playing . 
: He warned us in advance that `` New York Counterpoint '' lasts 11 1\/2 minutes . 
The rest of the concert was more straight jazz and mellow sounds written by Charlie Parker , Ornette Coleman , Bill Douglas and Eddie Gomez , with pictures for the Douglas pieces . 
It was enjoyable to hear accomplished jazz without having to sit in a smoke-filled club , but like the first half , much of it was easy to take and ultimately forgettable . 
Managers and presenters insist that chamber music concerts are a hard sell , but can audiences really enjoy them only if the music is purged of threatening elements , served up in bite-sized morsels and accompanied by visuals ? 
What 's next ? 
Slides to illustrate Shostakovich quartets ? 
The personal antics of agency Director Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow drew much attention , such as when several of his top aides were uncovered as KGB plants and ejected from France and when a mysterious office fire was set just before Congress sent accountants to trace U.S. funds . 
Several ridiculous projects continue , including the `` New International Economic Order , '' which means redistributionism from the West to pay for everyone else 's statism . 
The Orwellian `` New World Information Order '' would give government officials rights against the press ; journalists would be obliged to kowtow to their government , which would have licensing and censorship powers and , indeed , duties to block printing of `` wrong '' ideas . 
; journalists would be obliged to kowtow to their government , which would have licensing and censorship powers and , indeed , duties to block printing of `` wrong '' ideas . 
Million-dollar conferences were held to chew on subjects such as `` ethical responsibilities of scientists in support of disarmament '' and `` the impact of the activities of transnational corporations . '' 
Glasnost may be partly responsible , but Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze last year admitted , `` The exaggerated ideological approach undermined tolerance intrinsic to UNESCO . '' 
Mr. Mayor 's hope that references to `` press freedom '' would survive unamended seems doomed to failure ; the current phrasing is `` educating the public and media to avoid manipulation . '' 
; the current phrasing is `` educating the public and media to avoid manipulation . '' 
He has n't been able to replace the M'Bow cabal . 
Soviets remain in charge of education programs , a former head of an African military tribunal for executions is in charge of culture , and a hard-line Polish communist in exile directs the human-rights and peace division . 
Of the agency 's 2,750 staff members , 230 are in the field working on actual projects , such as literacy and oceanographic research . 
John Bolton , the assistant secretary of state for international organizations , told Congress that the continuing `` statist , restrictive , nondemocratic '' programs make rejoining any time soon `` extremely unlikely . '' 
This has n't much bothered the UNESCO delegates , who last week could n't even agree to raise funds by selling off a fancy 19th-century French chateau the agency somehow owns . 
This is that the Reagan Revolution spanning Eastern Europe and Tiananmen Square shows the power of ideas unencumbered by international civil servants or government functionaries . 
Free markets , free minds and free elections have an appeal that seems to get muddled only when delivered through U.N. organizations -- which of course are made up largely of governments that fear these principles at home . 
This can have its purposes at times , but there 's no reason to cloud the importance and allure of Western concepts of freedom and justice . 
We can see plenty of reasons to stay out , and none to rejoin UNESCO . 
That 's because the male part , the tassel , and the female , the ear , are some distance apart on the corn plant . 
In a labor-intensive process , the seed companies cut off the tassels of each plant , making it male sterile . They sow a row of male-fertile plants nearby , which then pollinate the male-sterile plants . 
They sow a row of male-fertile plants nearby , which then pollinate the male-sterile plants . 
The vast majority of the U.S. corn crop now is grown from hybrid seeds produced by seed companies . 
The male part , the anthers of the plant , and the female , the pistils , of the same plant are within a fraction of an inch or even attached to each other . The anthers in these plants are difficult to clip off . 
The anthers in these plants are difficult to clip off . 
In China , a great number of workers are engaged in pulling out the male organs of rice plants using tweezers , and one-third of rice produced in that country is grown from hybrid seeds . 
At Plant Genetic Systems , researchers have isolated a pollen-inhibiting gene that can be inserted in a plant to confer male sterility . 
The application of herbicide would kill off the male-fertile plants , leaving a large field of male-sterile plants that can be cross-pollinated to produce hybrid seed . They attached a second gene , for herbicide resistance , to the pollen-inhibiting gene . Both genes are then inserted into a few greenhouse plants , which are then pollinated and allowed to mature and produce seed . The laws of heredity dictate that half of the plants springing from these greenhouse-produced seeds will be male sterile and herbicide resistant and half will be male fertile and herbicide susceptible . 
The application of herbicide would kill off the male-fertile plants , leaving a large field of male-sterile plants that can be cross-pollinated to produce hybrid seed . 
One technique developed by some of these companies involves a chemical spray supposed to kill only a plant 's pollen . 
`` There is a large market out there hungry for hybrid seeds , '' he said . 
That 's because pollination , while easy in corn because the carrier is wind , is more complex and involves insects as carriers in crops such as cotton . 
`` It 's one thing to say you can sterilize , and another to then successfully pollinate the plant , '' he said . 
Not only are Japan 's financial institutions putting their enormous clout to work ; increasingly they 're squaring off against one another in unprecedented public fashion . 
; increasingly they 're squaring off against one another in unprecedented public fashion . 
Already , the consequences are being felt by other players in the financial markets -- even governments . 
Nomura was attempting to organize the 50 billion-yen -LRB- $ 352 million -RRB- borrowing in Japan at a time when many Japanese banks , led by Industrial Bank of Japan , were pressuring the Wellington government to help them recover loans made to a defunct investment bank that had been owned by New Zealand 's civil-service pension fund . Unwilling to put up new money for New Zealand until those debts are repaid , most banks refused even to play administrative roles in the new financing , forcing an embarrassed Nomura to postpone it this week . 
Unwilling to put up new money for New Zealand until those debts are repaid , most banks refused even to play administrative roles in the new financing , forcing an embarrassed Nomura to postpone it this week . 
Not only can they block Wellington from raising money in Japan , bankers here say , but as the largest underwriters in the Eurobond market , they might be able to scuttle borrowings there , too . 
He told reporters in Wellington Tuesday that the government had n't guaranteed the loans to DFC New Zealand Ltd. , an investment bank 80%-owned by the National Provident Fund , and would n't bail it out . `` It may very well be what the Japanese banks want , '' he told Radio New Zealand . `` I think it would be irresponsible and I am not about to be blackmailed by Japanese banks or any other international interests . '' 
`` I think it would be irresponsible and I am not about to be blackmailed by Japanese banks or any other international interests . '' 
Anxiety is rising over recent government proposals to eventually lower the strict barriers that now separate -- and protect -- the two industries from each other . 
The banks badly want to break into all aspects of the securities business . Meanwhile , the securities companies -- most of them smaller than the banks -- are seeking access only to limited kinds of banking that would n't open them to the full brunt of competition from the banks . 
Nomura started a credit-card venture with American Express Co. that allowed cardholders to use their Nomura securities accounts like a bank account , attracting the wrath of banks . And Industrial Bank of Japan started up a London securities subsidiary that sells Japanese stocks to non-Japanese institutions overseas , a move that stirred the anger of the stock brokerage firms . 
The New Zealand bond issue simply has brought the two institutions face-to-face . 
On a pretax basis , Itel 's third-quarter earnings of 30 cents a share were actually 7.14 % higher than the average of estimates . 
Mr. Conlon was executive vice president and director of the equity division of the international division of Nikko Securities Co . 
In the outfield , Paul Blair , the Orioles ' eight-time Gold Glove winner , elegantly shags a fly . 
On the mound , former Red Sox great Luis Tiant , the wily master of 1,001 moves , throws an off-speed strike . 
Now that the baseball season is officially over , you see , it 's time for a new season to begin . 
One hundred and ninety two former greats , near greats , hardly knowns and unknowns begin a 72-game , three-month season in spring-training stadiums up and down Florida . 
For everyone involved , it 's one more swig of that elixir of youth , baseball . 
`` You feel you want one more -- one more at-bat , one more hit , one more game . '' 
It 's one more for the baseball-loving lawyers , accountants and real estate developers who ponied up about $ 1 million each for the chance to be an owner , to step into the shoes of a Gene Autry or have a beer with Rollie Fingers . 
Midmorning , he dons an orange-and-blue uniform and , for fun , may field a bunt from Dave Kingman . 
`` I feel like a little kid , '' says a gleeful Alex de Castro , a car salesman , who has stopped by a workout of the Suns to slip six Campaneris cards to the Great Man Himself to be autographed . 
When he sent letters offering 1,250 retired major leaguers the chance of another season , 730 responded . 
Others , just released from the majors , hope the senior league will be their bridge back into the big-time . 
Real good , '' says 39-year-old Pete Broberg , working in the midday heat of the Tropics camp . 
For a long time , he ignored baseball altogether , even the sports pages . 
`` You ca n't give it up that easily , '' he says . 
`` I tried . '' 
He gave up seven hits , walked five and did n't get a decision . 
Arm troubles forced him back to the minors the next year . 
He means the rule that a player ca n't cut it after a certain age . 
`` I feel people should be allowed to remember players as they were . '' 
Most are trim . 
Some have been training for months ; others only recently left active status . 
; others only recently left active status . 
-LRB- No one has worked out the players ' average age , but most appear to be in their late 30s . -RRB- 
`` I 'm not going to look stupid , '' vows former Pittsburgh Pirate second baseman Rennie Stennett , sweat dotting his brow as he prepares for some practice swings . 
`` There will be a lot of malice . '' 
Men who have played hard all their lives are n't about to change their habits , he says . 
He no longer crowds the plate . 
He 's not thinking about home runs anymore , just base hits . 
Expect `` tricky '' stuff from pitchers , says Mr. Weaver , the manager . 
Expect brushbacks but no beanballs , says Mr. McEnaney . 
Even expect stolen bases , says the wiry and fit Mr. Campaneris : `` If you know how to slide , it 's no problem , '' he says . 
, says the wiry and fit Mr. Campaneris : `` If you know how to slide , it 's no problem , '' he says . 
`` I 'm not so young anymore , '' concedes the cigar-chomping , 48-year-old Mr. Tiant . 
`` I wo n't be throwing 90 mph , but I will throw 80-plus , '' he says . 
Stuffing a wad of Red Man into his cheek , he admits the fastball he brought into the majors in 1955 has become a slowball . 
Its maximum velocity is 72 mph . 
He will compensate with the guile learned from his years in the majors . 
He has good control . 
He will keep the ball down , move it around . 
The separate contracts were from Paragould Light & Water Commission , a utility in Paragould , Ark. , and PSE Inc. , a cogeneration-plant operator in Houston . 
; lending practices vary widely by location . 
Output of goods-producing industries increased 0.1 % . 
The company said its People 's Savings Bank unit does n't have a `` large exposure to construction and commercial loans that have caused the loan-loss problems in many of the banks . 
The record price for a full membership on the exchange is $ 550,000 , set March 9 . 
Both General Motors Corp. and Ford Motor Co. have been trying to amass 15 % stakes in Jaguar . 
Ford , which already has an unwelcome 13.2 % holding , is prepared to bid for the entire company and had lobbied the government to lift the takeover restrictions early . 
GM has been negotiating a friendly transaction with Jaguar that likely would involve joint ventures and an eventual stake of just under 30 % . 
`` I ca n't believe they -LRB- GM -RRB- will let Ford have a free run , '' said Stephen Reitman , a European auto industry analyst at UBS-Phillips & Drew . 
`` I am sure they will be going for a full bid . '' 
Jaguar shares skyrocketed yesterday after Mr. Ridley 's announcement , following their temporary suspension on London 's Stock Exchange . 
In late trading , the shares were up a whopping 122 pence -LRB- $ 1.93 -RRB- -- a 16.3 % gain -- to a record 869 pence on very heavy volume of 9.7 million shares . 
In the U.S. over-the-counter market , Jaguar shares trading as American Depositary Receipts closed at $ 13.625 , up $ 1.75 . 
The share price was languishing at about 400 pence before Ford 's Sept. 19 announcement of its interest in a minority stake . 
Such a countermove could end Jaguar 's hopes for remaining independent and British-owned . 
Because of their longstanding rivalry , GM just `` wants to make sure Ford pays a huge packet for -LRB- Jaguar -RRB- , '' said John Lawson , an auto analyst at London 's Nomura Research Institute . 
`` It 's either going to be a shootout , or there only may be one player in town , '' one person said . 
Another person close to the talks said , `` It is very hard to justify paying a silly price for Jaguar if an out-and-out bidding war were to start now . '' 
The statement emphasized that holders representing 75 % of the shares voting at a special shareholders ' meeting must agree to lift the takeover restrictions . 
Jaguar officials in the U.S. noted that Ford , as Jaguar 's largest shareholder , now has the power to call for such a meeting . 
Jaguar 's own defenses against a hostile bid are weakened , analysts add , because fewer than 3 % of its shares are owned by employees and management . 
`` Our intensive discussions with Jaguar , at their invitation , '' GM said , `` have as their objectives to create a cooperative business relationship with Jaguar that would provide for the continued independence of this great British car company , to ensure a secure future for its employees and to provide an attractive long-term return for its shareholders . '' 
Mr. Ridley 's announcement set off a howl of protests from members of the opposition Labor Party , who accused the Thatcher administration of backing down on promised protection for a privatized company . 
`` It 's now a very good time politically to get this over and done with , '' observed Daniel Jones , professor of motor industry management at the University of Cardiff in Wales . 
The government , already buffeted by high interest rates and a slowing economy , has been badly hurt by last week 's shake-up in Mrs. Thatcher 's cabinet . 
Mr. Ridley hinted at this motive in answering questions from members of Parliament after his announcement . 
He said he was giving up the golden share `` to clear the way so the playing field is level between all contestants . '' 
Dataproducts is fighting a hostile tender offer by DPC Acquisition Partners , a group led by New York-based Crescott Investments Associates . Under the circumstances , Dataproducts said , Mr. Tomash said he was unable to devote the time required because of other commitments . 
That compared with an operating loss of $ 1.9 million on sales of $ 27.4 million in the year-earlier period . 
The index fell 109.85 Monday . 
Mitsubishi Estate ended the day at 2680 , up 150 . 
Sumitomo Realty & Development rose 40 to 2170 . 
Heiwa Real Estate gained 40 to 2210 . 
Many of the morning-session winners turned out to be losers by afternoon . 
The balance of short positions outstanding fell 159.7 billion yen , to 779.8 billion yen . 
`` The market was dragged up by the scruff of its neck by Wall Street and by market makers getting caught short . 
No one wants stock on their books . '' 
Volume totaled a modest 334.5 million shares , up from 257.8 million shares Monday . 
Secretary of State for Trade and Industry Nicholas Ridley said later in the day that the government would abolish its golden share in Jaguar , the luxury auto maker being stalked by General Motors and Ford Motor . 
Jaguar shares closed at 869 pence , up 122 pence , on hefty turnover of 9.7 million shares . 
The DAX index closed at 1472.76 , up from 1466.29 . 
Prices were mixed in Zurich and lower in Stockholm . 
Taipei was closed for a holiday . 
An official linked the gain essentially to higher prices for beef and pork . 
He said summer drought problems that had hit several southern agricultural regions had stopped being a major source of price pressure in September . 
A figure above 50 indicates the economy is likely to expand ; one below 50 indicates a contraction may be ahead . 
; one below 50 indicates a contraction may be ahead . 
Canonie said it anticipates naming Mr. Donovan to succeed Richard F. Brissette , 55 , as president and chief executive officer , effective March 1 . 
The average one-year savings-type CD was down to 7.99 % from 8.01 % , according to Banxquote Money Markets , a New York information service that tracks CD yields . 
`` The major banks have n't even reacted to sharp rises in the three-month Treasury bill rates '' in the past two weeks . 
Banks that adjusted payouts on CDs in the most recent week made only fractional moves , he said . 
The average six-month bill was sold with a yield of 8.04 % , up from 7.90 % . 
The average three-month issue rose to 8.05 % from 7.77 % . 
; banks need a competitive edge to sell their products . 
The average six-month yield on a jumbo CD was at 7.90 % , down from 7.93 % , Banxquote said . 
For longer-term CDs , yields were up . 
The average two-year and five-year jumbos were up 0.02 of a percentage point to 7.91 % and 7.96 % , respectively . 
It is offered by the flagship banks of New York 's Manufacturers Hanover Corp. in the one-year maturity only . 
The yield is offered across a range of maturities at San Francisco 's BankAmerica Corp. and Wells Fargo & Co . 
Just two weeks ago , BankAmerica 's yields in many of those maturities was 8.61 % . 
The average yield there on six-month issues is 8.32 % . 
The diners at my table simply lit more Gauloises and scoffed at the suggestion of interrupting a perfectly good Saturday morning to go golfing or even montgolfing -LRB- ballooning to you ; the brothers Montgolfier , French of course , were the world 's first hot-air balloonists -RRB- . 
As in : `` You went ballooning ? ? ! ! In France ? ? ! ! '' 
Americans it seems have followed Malcolm Forbes 's hot-air lead and taken to ballooning in a heady way . 
During the past 25 years , the number of balloonists -LRB- those who have passed a Federal Aviation Authority lighter-than-air test -RRB- have swelled from a couple hundred to several thousand , with some estimates running as high as 10,000 . 
Some 30 balloon shows are held annually in the U.S. , including the world 's largest convocation of ersatz Phineas Foggs -- the nine-day Albuquerque International Balloon Fiesta that attracts some 800,000 enthusiasts and more than 500 balloons , some of which are fetchingly shaped to resemble Carmen Miranda , Garfield or a 12-story-high condom . 
-LRB- The condom balloon was denied official entry status this year . -RRB- 
Ballooning at the de rigueur hour of 6 a.m. held all the attraction for most people of sunrise root-canal work . 
Feeling the naggings of a culture imperative , I promptly signed up . 
-LRB- So long as you do n't look down . -RRB- 
I 'm talking about landing in a canal . 
In a porous wicker basket . 
With a pilot who speaks no English . 
When it was n't my turn in the balloon I followed its progress from the `` chase car , '' listening to the driver holler into a walkie-talkie . 
After long stretches of this attendant ground activity came 20 or so lovely minutes of drifting above the Vosges watching the silver mists rise off the river and the French cows amble about the fields . 
It 's hard not to feel that God 's in his heaven with this kind of bird's-eye view of the world , even if your pilote in silly plaid beret kept pointing out how `` belle '' it all was . 
We were coming down straight into their canal . 
See , the other rule of thumb about ballooning is that you ca n't steer . 
You can go only up or down -LRB- by heating the balloon 's air with a propane burner , which does make the top of your head feel hot -RRB- and ride the air currents . 
Which makes the chase car necessary . 
When the balloon is cruising along at a steady altitude there is little sense of motion . 
Only when one is ascending -- or in our case descending a tad trop rapidement -- does one feel , well , airborne in a picnic basket . 
`` Attention , '' yelled our pilot as our basket plunged into the canal . 
`` You bet attention , '' I yelled back , leaping atop the propane tanks , `` I 'm wearing alligator loafers ! '' 
Our pilot simply laughed , fired up the burner and with another blast of flame lifted us , oh , a good 12-inches above the water level . 
We scuttled along for a few feet before he plunged us into the drink again . 
I looked at my watch . 
It was the most exercise we 'd had all morning and it was followed by our driving immediately to the nearest watering hole . 
A whole morning of ballooning and I had been off the ground barely 30 minutes . 
My American companion and I were left to ride alfresco in the wicker basket . 
As we streaked by a blase gendarme , I could n't resist rearing up on my soggy loafers and saluting . 
Fed Vice Chairman Manuel Johnson , who had dissented from the Treasury 's policy , told lawmakers , `` I became convinced about what looked to me like an attempt to push the dollar down against the fundamentals in the market . '' 
A Fed spokesman denied Mr. LaFalce 's statement . 
`` The solution is stronger domestic growth -LCB- in Germany -RCB- , '' he said . 
The board increased by one to 26 members . 
In the past year , one inside director resigned , while three others retired . 
Five of the six categories of weapons under negotiation have n't even been defined . 
The Soviets complicated the issue by offering to include light tanks , which are as light as 10 tons . 
Oleg A. Grinevsky , the chief Soviet negotiator in the conventional-arms talks , argued that this would mean the Soviets would have to destroy some 1,800 tanks , while the U.S. would lose none because it has no light tanks in Europe . 
France , Britain and Italy all have light tanks they would like to keep out of the talks . 
The Soviets insisted that aircraft be brought into the talks , then argued for exempting some 4,000 Russian planes because they are `` solely defensive . '' 
The dispute over that issue , according to one U.S. official , is a `` potential treaty stopper , '' and only President Bush and Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev may be able to resolve it . 
`` It 's just going to be sloppy , both on our side and theirs -LCB- the Warsaw Pact 's -RCB- , '' says one NATO analyst . 
They argue that the bigger danger would be that the West would delay action so long that the Soviets might back away from the current conciliatory attitude . 
`` The bottom line is that if we can get that -LCB- Warsaw Pact -RCB- superiority brought down to parity , we ought to keep pressing ahead as quickly as possible . 
I worry more about things becoming so unraveled on the other side that they might become unable to negotiate . 
Four of the planes were purchased by International Lease from Singapore Airlines in a previously announced transaction . 
The figure excludes a record number employed by extraordinary government work programs , the Labor Directorate announced Tuesday . 
Those employed in state-funded special programs increased by 7,400 to 65,200 in the same period , the Directorate said . 
So far this year , it has put nearly $ 700 million into bottling operations in Australia , New Zealand and France . 
Aside from Europe , the Pacific division is where Coke will be focusing much of its attention for years to come . 
In countries such as Taiwan , South Korea and Singapore , economies are growing , resulting in a rise in disposable income that consumers can use for soft drinks . 
By acquiring stakes in bottling companies in the U.S. and overseas , Coke has been able to improve bottlers ' efficiency and production , and in some cases , marketing . 
Coke has tended to increase its control when results were sluggish in a given country . 
In Singapore , per-capita consumption is about one-third that of the U.S. . 
Coke could be interested in more quickly developing some of the untapped potential in those markets . 
A Coke spokesman said he could n't say whether that is the direction of the talks . 
His new stake would be in the form of preferred shares , which receive higher dividends but have voting rights only in extraordinary shareholders assemblies . 
It unfortunately encourages others to engage in a highly dangerous and illegal activity that only a very few are doing now . 
President Bush in June vetoed a measure passed by Congress and said he would n't accept any minimum-wage rise that went beyond limits he set early in this year 's debate on the issue . 
Under the agreement with the House and Senate leaders , the minimum wage would rise from the current $ 3.35 an hour to $ 4.25 an hour by April 1991 . 
Under the compromise , the $ 4.25 level would be reached nine months earlier , while the training subminimum would be shorter , unless it is tied to a training plan . 
With congressional elections next year , GOP leaders have worried about opposing a minimum-wage rise for low-paid workers at a time when Congress is moving toward a capital-gains tax cut that would directly benefit wealthier taxpayers . 
Republicans have been imploring the White House to compromise on the wage issue . 
The Senate will probably vote not long afterward . 
Rep. Austin Murphy -LRB- D. , Pa. -RRB- , chairman of the House labor standards subcommittee , said they might have done better `` if we 'd held their feet to the fire . '' 
Mr. Kennedy suggested Democrats `` yielded a great deal '' on the size of the increase , but he cited concessions from the White House on the training wage , which he said make it `` less harsh . '' 
The AFL-CIO , which previously opposed the administration 's subminimum idea , said the compromise has `` adequate safeguards , so the youth are not exploited and older workers are not displaced . '' 
Capital requirements will be declining and no new generating facilities will be required for several years , Moody 's said . 
Mr. Smith , 39 , retains the title of chief financial officer . 
Analysts expect Armstrong to use proceeds of the sale to reduce debt , buy back stock or perhaps finance an acquisition . 
Shaw , based in Dalton , Ga. , has annual sales of about $ 1.18 billion , and has economies of scale and lower raw-material costs that are expected to boost the profitability of Armstrong 's brands , sold under the Armstrong and Evans-Black names . 
Armstrong 's shares , also listed on the Big Board , closed at $ 39.125 , up 12.5 cents . 
In the year-ago quarter , earnings were $ 42.9 million , or 93 cents a share . 
So far this year , the index of leading indicators has risen in four months , fallen in four months and remained unchanged in the other month . 
Because the figures are based on a small sample , the department said it is 90 % confident only that new-home sales fell somewhere between 5 % and 23 % during the month . 
This measure had dropped sharply in August . 
The Commerce Department said that as a result of a new adjustment to the formula used to calculate the index , the influence of this component has been reduced . 
These include new orders for manufactured consumer goods , lead times on vendor deliveries , orders for new plant and equipment , and backlogs of orders for durable goods . 
The remainder expect a downturn to begin sometime in 
The other 40 % said the Fed ought to worry less about inflation and bring interest rates down . 
September , and the change from August , are : from 1.11 in the previous month . 
As expected , the settlement limits rate increases for three years and ties future charges to customers for operation of the troubled Pilgrim Nuclear Power Station to that plant 's performance . 
Accepted bids ranged from 8.38 % to 8.395 % . 
Accepted bids ranged from 8 % to 8.019 % . 
The bank holding company will auction another $ 50 million in each maturity next Tuesday . 
Amateur spy-chaser Clifford Stoll is a real person , or as he might waggishly put it , a surreal person . 
He once described himself as a `` Berkeley Hippie , '' and played the role well ; obligatory ragged jeans , a thicket of long hair and rejection of all things conventional , including , for a time at least , formal marriage to his `` sweetheart , '' Martha Matthews . 
In `` The Cuckoo 's Egg '' -LRB- Doubleday , 326 pages , $ 19.95 -RRB- , he spins a remarkable tale of his efforts over 18 months to catch a computer spy . 
One of them , 25-year-old Markus Hess of Hannover , allegedly used the international telecommunications network to break into more than 30 high-security computers in the U.S. , searching for secrets . 
He probably did n't penetrate any top-secret files , but the KGB in East Berlin was willing to pay two of his associates , Peter Carl and Dirk Brezinski , $ 15,000 for some of the material Hess collected . 
They promised yet more for really good stuff . 
The computer spy had discovered that a popular editing\/electronic mail program called Gnu-Emacs could do tricks with the widely used Unix operating system created by AT&T . Using Gnu-Emacs , the spy could substitute a bogus `` atrun '' program for the one that routinely cleans up the Unix system every five minutes . 
Using Gnu-Emacs , the spy could substitute a bogus `` atrun '' program for the one that routinely cleans up the Unix system every five minutes . 
Once his cuckoo 's egg was laid , he could enter Unix and become a `` super-user , '' with access to everything . 
He discovered a 75-cent discrepancy in the charges made to various departments for computer time and traced it to a user named `` Hunter , '' who had no valid billing address . 
Mr. Stoll suspected the intruder was one of those precocious students who has fun breaking into computers . 
Finding him became an obsession for Mr. Stoll . 
He made a midnight requisition of all the printers he could lay hands on so that he could monitor all the telephone lines coming into the lab 's computers . 
After discovering that the hacker had taken over the dormant account of a legitimate user named Joe Sventek , he rigged up an alarm system , including a portable beeper , to alert him when Sventek came on the line . 
Some nights he slept under his desk . 
His boss complained about neglect of other chores . 
The White Sands missile range and CIA contractor Mitre Inc. were among the targets . 
Sometimes , if the hacker seemed to be into a sensitive file , he would drag his keychain across the terminal to create static or slow the system down to frustrate his quarry . 
The CIA told him it does not do domestic counterespionage . 
One learns a lot from this book , or seems to , about crippling federal bureaucracy . 
`` Seems to '' because it 's possible that the CIA and the National Security Agency were more interested than they let on to Mr. Stoll . 
Tymnet is a major network linking computers . One of its international specialists , Steve White , took a quick interest in Mr. Stoll 's hunt , ultimately tracing the hacker to West Germany . 
He savored the humor of his uncombed appearance among these buttoned-up chaps . 
Back in Berkeley , he was violently scolded by a left-wing lady friend for consorting with such people . 
He became angry in return . 
He had developed a hatred for the hacker and a grudging appreciation of the federal `` spooks '' who make national security their business . 
The machine employs reduced instruction-set computing , or RISC , technology . 
`` In the price range it 's a tremendously high-performing product , '' said Sandy Gant , an analyst at the market-research firm InfoCorp . 
`` This clearly demonstrates that Mips is a systems company rather than just a chip company , '' said Mips Vice President John Hime . 
`` The thing it says about Mips is that they 're on a roll right now , '' said Ms. Gant at InfoCorp . 
`` They 're getting some major wins , '' she added . 
Sony Corp. , Tandem Computers Inc. and Digital Equipment have agreed to sell MIPS computers and companies such as Japan 's NEC Corp. and West Germany 's Siemens A.G. have agreed to make Mips chips under license . 
`` Suddenly CDC -LRB- Control Data -RRB- has a competitive product to fight back against the VAX9000 , '' a machine Digital announced last month , he added . 
The computer can process 13.3 million calculations called floating-point operations every second . 
The machine can run software written for other Mips computers , the company said . 
The spending could be exempted from meeting deficit-reduction targets in the Gramm-Rudman budget law . 
The borrowing to raise these funds would be paid off as assets of sick thrifts are sold . 
`` To allow this massive level of unfettered federal borrowing without prior congressional approval would be irresponsible , '' said Rep. Fortney Stark -LRB- D. , Calif. -RRB- , who has introduced a bill to limit the RTC 's authority to issue debt . 
`` If working capital financing is not provided , '' he said , `` the RTC may have to slow -LCB- S&L sales -RCB- or dump acquired assets through fire sales . 
Texas Eastern Transmission will build and operate the system , which will connect the Arkoma Basin with several interstate pipelines . 
For one thing , Ms. Shere can draw on her cookbook , published by Random House four years ago , which is teeming with recipes for such specialties as kiwi sherbet , gooseberry fool -LRB- a creamy dish made with crushed stewed berries -RRB- and hazelnut `` oeufs a la neige . '' 
`` We make what we know how to make , '' says business manager Richard Mazzera . 
`` It 's an overwhelming job , '' she says . 
`` There are so many possible proportions when you consider how many things are made out of eggs and butter and milk . 
Mr. Wakeman was vice president of the instrument and controls division of closely held Omega Engineering Inc. , another company controlled by Mr. Hollander . 
The dividend had been five cents a share . 
A year earlier UniFirst earned $ 2.4 million , or 24 cents a share adjusted for the split . 
Sales rose to $ 52.4 million from $ 50.1 million . 
The lumber , insulation and fireproofing concern said the transaction , which includes a swap of other timber interests , would result in a $ 13.5 million after-tax gain , to be recorded in the fourth quarter . 
In return , HealthVest agreed that it wo n't exercise its rights and remedies against Healthcare during the 120-day period . 
Healthcare has given HealthVest a 12 % note for that overdue amount , to be repaid over three years . 
Because Healthcare actually owes HealthVest $ 4.2 million in rent and mortgage payments each month , the amount due above the amount paid will be added to the three-year note . 
A spokesman said HealthVest has paid two of the three banks it owed interest to in October and is in negotiations with the third bank . 
Actually , about two years ago , the Journal listed the creation of the money fund as one of the 10 most significant events in the world of finance in the 20th century . 
We innovated telephone redemptions , daily dividends , total elimination of share certificates and the constant $ 1 pershare pricing , all of which were painfully thought out and not the result of some inadvertence on the part of the SEC . 
The local American Legion color guard led the way . 
As the judge marched down the center aisle in his flowing black robe , he was heralded by a trumpet fanfare . 
While his case may be extreme , it reflects the vulnerability of many small communities to domineering judges . 
The allegations , ranging from theft and bribery to coercion and lewdness , paint a disquieting picture . 
Bailiffs claimed they were required to chauffeur him to and from work , mow his lawn , chop his wood , fix his car and even drop by his house to feed his two grown mutts , Dixie and Husky . 
One former bailiff charged that the judge double-crossed him by reneging on a promise of a better paying job after pocketing a $ 500 bribe . 
Two former secretaries told the grand jury they were summoned to the judge 's chambers on separate occasions to take dictation , only to find the judge in his bikini underwear . 
One secretary testified that the judge once called her to his office while wearing nothing at all . 
He blames the indictment on local political feuding , unhappiness with his aggressive efforts to clear the courthouse 's docket and a vendetta by state investigators and prosecutors angered by some of his rulings against them . 
`` I 'll find out , eventually , who pushed the state police buttons into action . '' 
Fear of alienating that judge is pervasive , says Maurice Geiger , founder and director of the Rural Justice Center in Montpelier , Vt. , a public interest group that researches rural justice issues . 
He graduated near the top of his class , serving on the school law review with Richard Thornburgh , who went on to become governor of Pennsylvania and , now , U.S. Attorney General . 
He divorced his first wife three years ago and married the daughter of his court clerk . 
Clearly , the judge has had his share of accomplishments . 
; in 1981 , he was effectively re-elected . 
Six years ago , Judge O'Kicki was voted president of the Pennsylvania Conference of State Trial Judges by the state 's 400 judges . 
He has been considered several times for appointments to federal district and appellate court vacancies in Pennsylvania . 
`` He 's sharp as a tack . 
He could grasp an issue with the blink of an eye . '' 
`` What about those institutions that are supposed to be the bedrock of society , the banks and the bar association ... ? '' wrote a columnist for the Tribune-Democrat , a newspaper in nearby Johnstown , shortly after the scandal became public . `` If only a banker or a lawyer had spoken out years ago , the judicial process would n't be under the taint it is today . '' 
`` If only a banker or a lawyer had spoken out years ago , the judicial process would n't be under the taint it is today . '' 
`` Nobody told us ; nobody called us , '' says an official close to the case who asked not to be named . 
; nobody called us , '' says an official close to the case who asked not to be named . 
`` Nobody had the guts to complain . '' 
Johnstown attorney Richard J. Green Jr. shelled out $ 500 in loans to the judge over five years , he said in testimony to the grand jury . 
`` The judge never made a pretense of repaying the money , '' said Mr. Green . 
Mr. Green thought little of it , he told the grand jury , until the judge walked up to him after the courtroom had cleared and suggested a kickback . 
One had best not dance on top of a coffin until the lid is sealed tightly shut . '' 
He sipped tea sweetened with honey from his high-backed leather chair at his bench , while scribbling notes ordering spectators to stop whispering or to take off their hats in his courtroom . 
Four years ago , he jailed all nine members of the Cambria County School Board for several hours after they defied his order to extend the school year by several weeks to make up for time lost during a teachers ' strike . 
The judge , they say , was fiercely proud of his abilities and accomplishments . 
The dealership dutifully recorded the sale under the name `` Judge O'Kicki . '' 
`` Until this came up and hit the press , there was never any indication that he was doing anything wrong . '' 
Even his routine business transactions caused trouble , according to the grand jury report . 
When the judge bought his new Sunbird from James E. Black Pontiac-Cadillac in Ebensburg five years ago , the dealership had `` certain apprehensions '' about the judge 's reputation , according to the grand-jury report . The dealership took the extra step of having all the paper work for the transaction pre-approved by Ebensburg 's local lender , Laurel Bank . Then , as an additional precaution , the car dealership took the judge 's photograph as he stood next to his new car with sales papers in hand -- proof that he had received the loan documents . But when the judge received his payment book , he disavowed the deal . `` There was no loan , there is no loan , there never shall be a loan , '' the judge wrote the bank on his judicial stationery , according to the report . 
The dealership took the extra step of having all the paper work for the transaction pre-approved by Ebensburg 's local lender , Laurel Bank . 
`` There was no loan , there is no loan , there never shall be a loan , '' the judge wrote the bank on his judicial stationery , according to the report . 
After Laurel Bank tried to repossess the car , a vice president asked him to intervene in an unrelated legal dispute involving a trust account . The judge wrote again . `` I find myself in an adversary relationship with Laurel Bank , and I am not inclined to extend myself as far as any favors are concerned , '' the judge wrote back in a letter attached to the grand jury 's report . `` Perhaps if my personal matters can be resolved with Laurel bank in the near future , I may be inclined to reconsider your request ... . '' 
The judge wrote again . 
`` Perhaps if my personal matters can be resolved with Laurel bank in the near future , I may be inclined to reconsider your request ... . '' 
The judge now says it was `` unfortunate '' that he chose to write the letter but says `` there was certainly no intent to extort there . '' 
It refinanced the judge 's loan , lowered its interest rate and accepted a trade-in that had n't originally been part of the deal -- a beat up 1981 Chevy Citation the dealer had to repair before it could be resold . 
Two years later , he wrote to complain that the interest he was paying on an unsecured $ 10,000 loan was `` absolutely onerous . '' Paul L. Kane , Laurel 's president at the time , quickly responded . The bank , he wrote back , was `` immediately '' lowering the rate by 3.5 % , `` as a concession to you . '' 
Paul L. Kane , Laurel 's president at the time , quickly responded . 
The bank , he wrote back , was `` immediately '' lowering the rate by 3.5 % , `` as a concession to you . '' 
His seven-bedroom cedar and brick house outside of Johnstown is up for sale to pay for his lawyers . 
Already , he notes , the 76 charges originally filed against him have been trimmed to 27 . 
Most of the allegations no longer pending were ethics charges withdrawn by state prosecutors as part of a pre-trial agreement . 
The heart of the case -- `` official oppression '' -- remains intact . 
`` My God and I know I am correct and innocent . 
The use of the abominable construction practices in the Soviet Union -- as evidenced by the collapse of sand apartment blocks during the Armenian earthquake -- as a metaphor for the U.S. economic system was a sublime example of Mr. Cockburn 's satirical muse . 
It should be a scream . 
Please make me and thousands of other readers more comfortable with our daily purchase of your newspaper by raising your environmental standards to your overall impeccable quality levels , and increase your use of recycled paper . 
The rate on the notes will be reset annually to give the issue a market value of 101 . 
The minimum coupon is 13 3\/4 % . 
The initial coupon on the floating-rate notes will be 12.9375 % . 
The group 's bid for $ 34.2 million of wastewater treatment bonds , Series 1989 B , produced a 7.0808 % true interest cost . The Series 1989 B bonds are uninsured and rated double-A by Moody 's and S&P . 
The bonds are insured and rated triple-A by Moody 's and S&P . 
Each $ 5,000 bond carries one warrant , exercisable from Nov. 30 through Nov. 2 , 1993 , to buy company shares at an expected premium of 2 1\/2 % to the closing share price when terms are fixed Tuesday . 
Each $ 5,000 bond carries one warrant , exercisable from Nov. 30 through Nov. 2 , 1994 , to buy company shares at an expected premium of 2 1\/2 % to the closing share price when terms are fixed Monday . 
He said it especially will strengthen the company 's efforts in the rapidly growing field of bio-analytical instrumentation , and in applied nuclear physics . 
The sale , for $ 7 million in cash and securities , will leave EG&G with a 12 % stake in Transgenic , executives said . 
The Peruvian minerals concern had been seeking a claim of $ 251 million against Mr. Hunt . 
Minpeco attorneys said they would appeal the decision to a federal district court . 
The IRS had demanded $ 90 million but Mr. Hunt would agree to no more than $ 60 million . 
As much as 10 % of new U.S. mortgage securities issued by the Federal National Mortgage Association , or Fannie Mae , and Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. , or Freddie Mac , now flow into Japanese hands . 
`` Interest is a great deal higher than it was a year ago . '' 
The steady growth of the mortgage securities market in the U.S. has even triggered talk of building up a similar market here . 
Earlier this year , Blackstone Group , a New York investment bank , had no trouble selling out a special $ 570 million mortgage-securities trust it created for Japanese investors . 
Industrial Bank of Japan , which claims to be the biggest Japanese buyer of U.S. mortgage securities , says it will more than double its purchases this year , to an amount one official puts at several billion dollars . 
`` This year , some investors are changing their policies and investing a lot . '' 
While they are n't backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. government , as Treasury bonds are , it is widely assumed that the government would support them if necessary . 
The secondary market in federally backed mortgage securities now exceeds $ 900 billion , or nearly half of the $ 2.2 trillion in U.S. residential mortgages issued . 
At the moment , some offer as much as 1.6 to 1.8 percentage points over Treasury securities of similar maturities . 
Since most mortgages can be prepaid or refinanced at any time , issuers of mortgage securities retain the right to buy back their bonds before maturity . 
That 's a headache for long-term investors , since it forces them to reinvest their money -- usually at lower rates than the original mortgage securities carried . 
Since 1985 , Japanese investors have bought nearly 80 % of $ 10 billion in Fannie Mae corporate debt issued to foreigners , money that Fannie Mae uses to buy mortgages from U.S. banks . 
Freddie Mac for years has offered a so-called participation certificate that guarantees it wo n't be prepaid for a set number of years and offers semiannual payments . 
Recent studies by Georgeson & Co. conclude that corporations with poison pills have experienced greater stock-price appreciation than corporations without poison pills during the past few years . 
These critics are backed by several academic studies showing that the adoption of poison pills reduces shareholder values not merely in the short run , but also over longer periods . 
Does this corporation have a high-quality management team with a good track record ? 
Does this team have a viable strategy for improving shareholder values , and does this strategy require implementation over an extended period ? 
Will the adoption of this particular form of a poison pill significantly improve the chances for management to carry out this strategy ? 
Although the current management team may be outstanding , who will be the CEO in 10 years ? 
Although the five-year strategy may be excellent , what will be the strategy in 25 years ? 
The limit could range from three years to seven years , depending on the composition of the management team and the nature of its strategic plan . 
At the end of this period , the poison pill would be eliminated automatically , unless a new poison pill were approved by the then-current shareholders , who would have an opportunity to evaluate the corporation 's strategy and management team at that time . 
Pennzoil 's poison pill covers five years in order to give current management enough time to put these proceeds to work in a prudent manner . 
The State of Wisconsin Investment Board , which owned about 7 % of the company 's voting stock , worked with management to devise a time-limited poison pill . This pill automatically expires after three years unless continued by a vote of the shareholders . 
This pill automatically expires after three years unless continued by a vote of the shareholders . 
Such concrete analysis is likely to lead to more fruitful dialogue between management and shareholders than the abstract debate about poison pills . 
Yesterday 's election was a sequel to Enfield 's annual meeting in June when Mr. Blair disallowed proxies in favor of two Hees nominees . 
The Ontario Supreme Court overturned Mr. Blair 's decision . 
He said his suit against Enfield seeks two years severance pay , equivalent to C$ 720,000 . 
The usually cautious giant will become the majority owner of the company that owns New York 's beloved Rockefeller Center at a time when tensions over Japanese purchases of U.S. property are at an all-time high . 
`` We think there will be positive as well as negative reactions , '' says Raymond Pettit , senior vice president and chief financial officer of Rockefeller Group . 
`` On balance , we think it will be positive . '' 
In Los Angeles , Arco Plaza was sold to Shuwa Corp. for $ 620 million in 1986 , and Sumitomo Life Insurance Co. paid $ 300 million for Atlanta 's IBM Tower last year . 
Critics say Mitsubishi Estate 's decision to buy into Rockefeller reflects the degree to which companies are irritated by the pressure to act for the good of Japan . 
`` Those who have no money and are n't buying think it 's right to refrain , but those with money who want to buy for themselves pay no attention , '' says an official of the Japan-U.S . Business Council . 
In asset terms , Mitsubishi Estate is the largest real estate firm in Japan . 
The core of its holdings is 190,000 square meters of incredibly expensive property in the Marunouchi district , the business and financial center of Tokyo , often jokingly called `` Mitsubishi Village . '' 
Mitsubishi built the government 's dream development , the story goes , in exchange for the official decision to locate Tokyo 's central railway station there . 
: In the year ended March 31 , 57.4 % of its total revenue came from office building management . 
Its earnings can rise 10 % to 12 % annually simply from the natural turnover of tenants and automatic rent increases , says Graeme McDonald , an industry analyst at James Capel Pacific Ltd . 
For the latest fiscal year , the company 's net income jumped a robust 19 % to 35.5 billion yen -LRB- $ 250.2 million -RRB- . 
It is the largest private-sector landowner of the Minato-Mirai 21 project , a multibillion-yen development in the port city of Yokohama , about an hour outside Tokyo . 
Warner Communications Inc. , which is being acquired by Time Warner , has filed a $ 1 billion breach-of-contract suit against Sony and the two producers . 
Warner has a five-year exclusive contract with Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters that requires them to make movies exclusively at the Warner Bros. studio . 
; the two have continued on-again , off-again settlement talks over the last few weeks , and people familiar with the talks say the matter could be resolved within a week . 
Warner has surpassed Sony as the largest record company , but it does n't have a powerful world-wide record club like CBS . 
In his affidavit , Mr. Yetnikoff accused Warner Chairman Steven J. Ross of having an `` antiSony , anti-Japanese bias '' and said that Mr. Ross had tried to talk him out of letting Sony buy CBS Records two years ago for that reason . 
Time executives such as the company 's president , N.J . Nicholas , who will eventually be co-chief executive of Time Warner alongside Mr. Ross , have no personal relationships or ego at stake in the fight over the Guber-Peters duo , and were never directly drawn into the fray . 
; studios develop hundreds of movies but produce only 10 to 20 each year . 
The company is the subject of a federal grand jury investigation into whether its officials and its utility subsidiaries conspired to cover up their accounting for spare parts to evade federal income taxes . 
`` This is only a further step in a lengthy investigation . '' 
The contributions were funded by monthly payments of $ 1,000 to $ 2,000 to Appleyard in the guise of a `` special production fee '' -- in effect , hiding the nature of the payments from the Internal Revenue Service , federal prosecutors said . 
`` I 'm surprised they 're doing this , '' says Penn Kavanagh , president of Schieffelin & Somerset Co. , which markets Johnnie Walker scotches . 
`` I would be very leery of anything that says if you drink more , you get more . '' 
`` It 's really bizarre , '' says Albert Lerman , creative director at the Wells Rich Greene ad agency . 
`` Chivas has an image of something you would savor , rather than guzzle . '' 
Last year , J&B Scotch offered 500 TWA frequent flier miles in exchange for a label . 
The current campaign is just the first leg of an aggressive three-to-five-year direct marketing plan . 
Seagram asks customers to buy only two or three bottles over a 12-month period , says Richard Shaw , vice president of U.S. direct marketing . 
`` We 're not asking them to save up 50 proof-of-purchases . 
We 're not saying drink more , we 're saying trade up . '' 
To give Leche Fresca the creamier taste Goya says Hispanics prefer , the new brand has a butterfat content of 3.8 % . 
That compares with 3.5 % butterfat for whole milk . 
Borden sells considerably more whole milk than reduced-fat milks in southern and Hispanic markets , he says . 
Borden even tested a milk with 4 % butterfat in the South , but decided the market was too small . 
Because of Leche Fresca 's success , he says , the joint venture is developing other dairy products tailored to Hispanic tastes . 
Jewelry displays in department stores were often cluttered and uninspired . 
They 're hiring models to stroll the aisles sporting their jewels , and they 're even beginning to borrow a perennial favorite of the beauty business -- offering a gift when consumers make a purchase . 
Ms. Renk says retailers nixed a promotion for pins with animal motifs . 
Her idea : bring in live zoo animals . 
The company focuses on the how-to aspects , says Andrew E. Philip , president . 
Trifari now trains sales help to advise customers on the best earring styles . 
: They motivate sales people with commissions . 
Jewelry makers rarely pay commissions and are n't expected to anytime soon . 
Procter & Gamble Co. recently introduced refillable versions of four products , including Tide and Mr. Clean , in Canada , but does n't plan to bring them to the U.S. . 
Marketers believe most Americans wo n't make the convenience trade-off ... . 
He reset opening arguments for today . 
Tax-exempt airport and street-corner solicitations were intended only to provide start-up funds . 
More stable industries were to build an economically viable infrastructure for the Moon movement in North America , as they had in Japan and South Korea . 
It is still common to read in the press that the church has 10,000 or more full-time American members and 25,000 `` associates . '' 
Some estimates have gone as high as 80,000 members . 
Mr. Moon 's support for a Watergate-beleaguered Richard Nixon , the Koreagate scandal , and his prison sentence for income-tax evasion did not help the church 's recruitment efforts . 
Defections , burnouts , and abduction `` deprogrammings '' kept member turnover high . 
That the membership number has even kept close to its 1976 size is the result of the `` graying '' of the church . 
Many of the enthusiastic young `` Moonies '' of the Nixon era who remained faithful to Father Moon are now parents , producing new members by procreation rather than conversion . 
For a while in the 1970s it seemed Mr. Moon was on a spending spree , with such purchases as the former New Yorker Hotel and its adjacent Manhattan Center ; a fishing\/processing conglomerate with branches in Alaska , Massachusetts , Virginia and Louisiana ; a former Christian Brothers monastery and the Seagram family mansion -LRB- both picturesquely situated on the Hudson River -RRB- ; shares in banks from Washington to Uruguay ; a motion picture production company , and newspapers , such as the Washington Times , the New York City Tribune -LRB- originally the News World -RRB- , and the successful Spanish-language Noticias del Mundo . Yet these purchases can be misleading . 
Most were obtained with huge inputs of church money from South Korea and Japan , minimum cash downpayments and sizable mortgages . 
Those teams of young fund-raisers selling flowers , peanuts or begging outright at traffic intersections brought in somewhere near $ 20 million a year during the mid-to-late 1970s , but those revenues were a pittance compared to the costs of Mr. Moon 's lavish international conferences , speaking tours , and assorted land buys . 
Only his factories in Japan and Korea , employing his followers at subsistence wages and producing everything from rifles to ginseng to expensive marble vases , kept the money flowing westward . 
Start-up costs for the Washington Times alone were close to $ 50 million , and the total amount lost in this journalistic black hole was estimated at $ 150 million by 1984 . 
Insiders say that not even their editors know for sure how much these show-piece publications , along with the newspapers , have cost Mr. Moon . 
Some components of the American church had their budgets cut in half last year and again this year . 
The relatively small academic conferences that have attracted conservative guests -- and press scrutiny -- in recent years are much more narrowly targeted and austere than the thousand-person get-togethers in fancy digs and exotic locales of years past . 
-LRB- Mr. Moon 's Paragon House eventually even published three of my co-edited books on religion and politics . -RRB- 
`` Everything , '' one non-`` Moonie '' senior consultant to the Unification Church recently told me in an interview , `` is going back to Korea and Japan . '' 
-LRB- Europe had proved even less hospitable than North America . 
European politicians were less reluctant to have their governments investigate and harass new religions . -RRB- 
South Korea and Japan continue to be profitable . 
Moon 's Tong'Il industry conglomerate is now investing heavily in China , where church accountants have high hopes of expanding and attracting converts even in the wake of the bloody massacre in Tiananmen Square . 
Panda Motors is one such investment . 
Mr. Moon has agreed to put up $ 10 million a year for 25 years and keep the profits in China . In return , he has the government 's blessing to build churches and spread Unificationism in that country . 
In return , he has the government 's blessing to build churches and spread Unificationism in that country . 
The trust is considering a sale of its Manville holdings , but Manville has the right of first refusal on any sales of its stock held by the trust . 
It said the situation is caused by efforts to streamline bloated factory payrolls . 
`` The only people who are flying are those who have to , '' said Frank Moore , chairman of the Australian Tourist Industry Association . 
He added : `` How is a travel agent going to sell a holiday when he can not guarantee a return flight ? '' 
; a few days before Mr. Nahas 's failure , the exchange raised the required margin on stock-margin transactions . 
The two , Szeto Wah and Martin Lee , were deemed unfit because they had condemned China 's crackdown on its pro-democracy movement . 
Israel has been accused in the past of using subterfuge to seek elements needed to develop nuclear weapons . 
; South Korea established diplomatic relations with Hungary in February 1989 . 
Friday 's auction will be limited to $ 150 million disbursed by the Central Bank to potential investors . 
Most of the proposals are in tourism , basic industry and fishery and agro-industry projects , he said . 
The South African Broadcasting Corp. said the song `` Freedom Now '' was `` undesirable for broadcasting . '' ... 
The `` anti-hooligan '' law , which would deprive troublemakers of cards , must be ratified by the House of Lords and is expected to become effective early next year . 
Mrs. Marcos had claimed that she did n't have to turn over the documents because she was brought here involuntarily and because providing the materials would violate her marital privilege . 
Much of the money was fraudulently concealed through purchases of prime Manhattan real estate , federal prosecutors have charged . 
The first one permits a witness to refuse to testify against her spouse . But Judge Keenan said that privilege 's purpose is `` fostering harmony in marriage . '' Because Mr. Marcos died Sept. 28 , the privilege can no longer apply , the judge said . 
Because Mr. Marcos died Sept. 28 , the privilege can no longer apply , the judge said . 
The office will tap the resources of Sidley 's 700 lawyers in the U.S. , London and Singapore as well as the 400 Ashurst staff members in London and Brussels . 
Sidley will maintain its association with the Hashidate Law Office in Tokyo . 
The UAW is seeking a hearing by the full 14-judge panel . 
In November 1987 , a district court judge in Detroit ruled against the UAW . 
The bill would authorize courts to order the licenses as a condition of probation . 
He said an altered license would be an `` embarrassment '' to teenagers and young adults and would act as a deterrant to drug use . 
Richard Avena , executive director of the Texas Civil Liberties Union , called the proposal `` political gimmickry , '' and said it fails to recognize the drug problem as a health issue . 
No one could voice an opinion until everybody with more seniority had spoken first , so younger employees -- often the most enthusiastic and innovative -- seldom spoke up at all . 
In recent years , Nissan has instituted flex-time work schedules and allowed employees to dress casually , even in blue jeans . 
A rule forbidding staffers to own competitors ' cars has been lifted , and now many designers drive foreign cars to get useful ideas . 
Nissan 's decades-old corporate song filled with references to Mount Fuji has been scrapped in favor of a snappy tune sung by a popular Japanese vocalist . 
`` We had lots of internal debate about this one , '' concedes Tadahiko Fukuyama , a senior public-relations official . 
The company 's turnaround is far from complete ; many crucial tests are just beginning . 
; many crucial tests are just beginning . 
Atsushi Muramatsu , Nissan 's executive vice president for finance , helped set the tone in December 1986 , when the company was heading toward the first operating loss by a Japanese auto maker since the nation 's postwar recovery . 
`` This is a time of self-criticism to discover what is wrong with us , '' he said . 
Yutaka Kume , who took the helm as Nissan 's president in June 1985 , added simply , `` I am deeply disappointed . '' 
Nissan , Japan 's second-largest auto maker and the world 's fourth-largest , was getting beat up not only by its bigger rival , Toyota Motor Corp. , but also by Honda Motor Co. , the most successful Japanese car company in the U.S. but a relative pipsqueak in Japan . 
Its U.S. sales sagged , partly because of price increases due to the rising yen . 
Worst of all , Nissan was preoccupied with management infighting , cronyism and corporate rigidity . 
At that time , tasks were assigned strictly on the basis of seniority . 
`` The oldest designer got to work on the dashboard , '' she recalls . 
`` The next level down did doors . 
If a new person got to work on part of the speedometer , that was a big deal . '' 
Desperately hoping to spark sales , Nissan transferred 5,000 middle managers and plant workers to dealerships . 
One group of middle-aged manufacturing men from the company 's Zama plant outside Tokyo was supposed to check out a trendy restaurant in the city . 
Mr. Kume himself visited Honda 's headquarters in Tokyo 's upscale Aoyama district . 
One engineer developed a `` crab car '' that moves sideways . 
Nissan handled the die-hards in a typically Japanese fashion : They were n't fired but instead `` were neglected , '' says Kouji Hori , the personnel manager at the Nissan Technical Center . 
A year ago , the company completely revamped its near-luxury sedan , the $ 17,699 Maxima , which competes against a broad range of upscale sedans ; it replaced its boxy , pug-nosed body with sleek , aerodynamic lines . 
; it replaced its boxy , pug-nosed body with sleek , aerodynamic lines . 
All three new models are outselling their predecessors by wide margins . 
One is the Pao , a tiny coupe with a peelback canvas top and tilted headlights that give it a droopy-eyed look . 
The chairs are S-Cargo seats , and a gift shop sells such items as alarm clocks styled like the Pao 's oversized speedometer . 
Nissan had 29 % of the Japanese car market in 1980 before beginning a depressing eight-year slide that continued through last year . 
Strong sales so far this year are certain to turn the tide , but even the 25 % market share that Nissan expects in 1989 will leave it far below its position at the beginning of the decade . 
`` Everyone else is going to catch up '' with Nissan 's innovative designs , says A. Rama Krishna , auto analyst at First Boston -LRB- Japan -RRB- Ltd . 
Nissan 's pace of new-model hits will slow , he adds , just as arch-rival Toyota unleashes its own batch of new cars . 
So far , Nissan 's new-model successes are mostly specialized vehicles with limited sales potential . 
In compact and subcompact cars , the bread-and-butter sales generators for Japanese auto makers , Nissan still trails Toyota and Honda . 
The Stanza has been a nonentity compared with Honda 's hugely successful Accord and Toyota 's Camry . 
; at $ 11,450 , Stanza prices start $ 749 below the predecessor model yet have a more-powerful engine . 
Accord prices start at $ 12,345 . 
Nissan will introduce a completely revamped Sentra next fall . 
The ads featured fences , rocks and pussy-willow buds -- almost anything but the cars themselves . 
The ads have generated some laughs but also plenty of attention because they are so unlike any other U.S. auto advertising . 
Nissan will build only about 3,500 of the $ 38,000 Infiniti Q45 sedans each month , sending about 2,000 of them to the U.S. and keeping the rest for sale in Japan . Toyota wants to sell about 49,000 Lexus LS400 sedans next year in the U.S. alone . 
Toyota wants to sell about 49,000 Lexus LS400 sedans next year in the U.S. alone . 
`` Infiniti is Nissan 's big business move for the 21st century , and we 're in no hurry to generate large profits right away , '' Mr. Oka says . 
Despite plans to add two new Infiniti models next year , bringing the total to four , Infiniti wo n't show profits for at least five years , he adds . 
Nissan had record net income of 114.63 billion yen -LRB- $ 868 million -RRB- in the fiscal year ended last March 31 , a remarkable recovery from the 20.39 billion yen of two years earlier , when the company lost money on operations . 
Nissan has increased earnings more than market share by cutting costs and by taking advantage of a general surge in Japanese car sales . 
The big reason : For all its cost-cutting , Nissan remains less efficient than Toyota . 
In its last fiscal year , Nissan 's profit represented just 2.3 % of sales , compared with 4.3 % at Toyota . 
To help close the gap , Nissan recently established a top-level cost-cutting committee . 
That gives it an enviable strategic advantage , at least until its rivals catch up , but also plenty of managerial headaches . 
He promises that Nissan will soon establish a holding company overseeing all U.S. operations , just as it 's doing in Europe . 
Already , personnel officials are talking about the need for a `` Phase Two '' cultural-reform effort of some sort . 
`` We are still only half way through the turnaround of this company , and there are many more things to do , '' President Kume says . 
In a statement yesterday , Mr. Azoff said he chose Warner , the largest record company , because `` their standing in the entertainment industry is second to none . 
Mr. Gorbachev badly needs a diversion from the serious economic problems and ethnic unrest he faces at home . 
American officials have said that a meeting with the leader of the U.S. could help bolster his stature among Soviet politicians and academics , whose support he needs . 
A face-to-face meeting with Mr. Gorbachev should damp such criticism , though it will hardly eliminate it . 
`` By doing it in this manner we can have , I would say , more time without the press of social activities or mandatory joint appearances , things of that nature for public consumption , '' Mr. Bush said . 
Although no specific agreements are expected , Mr. Shevardnadze said `` that does n't mean they will be without an agenda . '' 
Mr. Gorbachev has for months been publicly urging the U.S. to drop its restrictions on Soviet trade . 
He recently told a small group of American businessmen in Moscow that he hoped to sign a general trade agreement with the U.S. , possibly at the 1990 summit . 
The Soviets hope a trade agreement would give them Most-Favored Nation status , which would lower the tariffs on Soviet exports to the U.S. . 
Economists in Moscow are now proposing that the state start a system of unemployment benefits . 
`` Those things will all come up , but in a fairly informal way . '' 
This was George Bush 's own idea . 
It 's George Bush wanting to meet a foreign leader and talk to him directly . '' 
Western analysts say that , given the meeting 's setting at sea , Gorbachev is unlikely to pass up the opportunity to press once again for negotiated cuts in the navies of both the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and the Warsaw Pact . 
They argue that as the Kremlin follows through on announced plans to cut land forces -- the Soviets ' area of greatest strength -- the U.S. should show more willingness to cut sea forces -- Washington 's area of greatest superiority . 
That meeting sent shivers through the Western alliance because Mr. Reagan was pulled into discussing the possible elimination of nuclear weapons without consulting American allies . 
Mr. Bush decided he wanted the meeting after talking in Europe in July with the leaders of Poland and Hungary , who urged him to support Mr. Gorbachev 's efforts to transform the Soviet system and to urge him to loosen his grip on Eastern Europe , a senior aide said . 
While flying home from those discussions , Mr. Bush drafted a letter to Mr. Gorbachev suggesting an informal get-together to precede their formal summit next year . 
State-owned BNL , Italy 's largest bank , has filed charges against the branch 's former manager , Christopher Drogoul , and a former branch vice president , alleging fraud and breach of their fiduciary duties . 
The central bank had ordered BNL to come up with a suitable program by yesterday . 
Of recent note are the activities of the pro- and anti-abortionists , anti-nuclear activists , animal rights protesters , college students concerned about racism , anti-apartheid groups , various self-styled `` environmentalists '' and those dissatisfied with the pace of the war against AIDS . 
The Mahatma , or `` great souled one , '' instigated several campaigns of passive resistance against the British government in India . 
Unfortunately , according to Webster 's Biographical Dictionary , `` His policies went beyond his control and resulted ... in riots and disturbances '' and later a renewed campaign of civil disobedience `` resulted in rioting and a second imprisonment . '' 
I am not a proponent of everything Gandhi did , but some of his law breaking was justified because India was then under occupation by a foreign power , and Indians were not able to participate fully in decisions that vitally affected them . 
Where truly representative governments are safeguarded by constitutional protections of human rights and an independent judiciary to construe those rights , there is no excuse for breaking the law because some individual or group disagrees with it . 
There may be a few cases where the law breaking is well pinpointed and so completely non-invasive of the rights of others that it is difficult to criticize it . 
The case of Rosa Parks , the black woman who refused to sit at the back of the bus , comes to mind as an illustration . 
It is true that both are non-violent , but there is a fundamental difference between them . 
Lawful demonstrations , such as peaceful picketing and other assemblages that do not disturb the peace or cause a public nuisance or interfere with the rights of others , are rights guaranteed by any truly free system of government . Civil disobedience , violent or non-violent , is intentional law breaking . 
Civil disobedience , violent or non-violent , is intentional law breaking . 
They are useful to call public attention to grievances , but they have little value in educating anyone about the issues in dispute . 
The delight of television in dramatic confrontation encourages overuse of slogans chanted through bullhorns , militant gestures , accusatory signs and other emotionally inspired tactics . 
Civilized discourse and an environment where compromise can begin are lost in a hostile posture abetted by superficial media interviews . 
; at worst , they can become the stimuli that lead to law breaking . 
Petty criminals and street people looking for excitement attach themselves like remora to the fringes of the crowd and use the protest as an excuse for rock throwing , auto trashing , arson , window breaking , looting , pocket picking and general hooliganism . 
Soon the whole purpose of the demonstration is lost in mob mania . 
There are better ways to promote a cause . 
Some find no harm in the misdemeanors of trespass , minor property destruction , blocking traffic and the like . 
They say these are small prices to pay for galvanizing action for the all-important cause . 
The crimes may appear small , but the prices can be huge . 
The protesters lie down in the street , blocking traffic , and will not move until the authorities carry them away . 
Assume that someone caught in the jam has a heart attack . 
There is no way to get an ambulance in quickly to move him to a hospital . 
He dies . 
The demonstration was non-violent and involved only a simple misdemeanor , but its impact on that individual was violent and terminal . 
The politician appearing is highly controversial and has recently generated a good deal of rancor amid certain groups . 
In a planned protest against his appearance , several members of the studio audience chain themselves in front of the TV cameras in such a way that the program can not continue . 
The network must refund money to the advertisers and loses considerable revenue and prestige . 
The demonstrators have been non-violent , but the result of their trespasses has been to seriously impair the rights of others unconnected with their dispute . 
Geraldo or Phil would probably pull up another camera and interview the chained protesters . 
Let us look for a moment at another type of non-violent civil disobedience that only harms other people indirectly , yet does irreparable damage to the nation as a whole . 
I am referring to those young men who chose to disobey their country 's call to arms during the Vietnam war and fled to Canada or some other sanctuary to avoid combat . 
Their cowardly acts of civil disobedience , which they tried to hide under the cloak of outrage at a war they characterized as `` immoral , '' weakened the national fabric and threw additional burdens on those who served honorably in that conflict . 
It is amazing that the ensuing mass executions in Vietnam and Cambodia do not weight more heavily on minds so morally fine-tuned . 
Worse , it remained to a well-meaning but naive president of the United States to administer the final infamy upon those who fought and died in Vietnam . 
The precedent having been set , who can complain if future generations called upon to defend the U.S. yield to the temptation to avoid the danger of combat by simply declaring the war immoral and hiding until it is over ? 
Give television a chance to cover live any breaking of the law , and no second invitation will be required . 
This brings into question the motives of those who lead civil disobedience demonstrations . 
Do they want the spotlight for themselves or for their cause ? 
In either case , ask yourself whether you have become better informed on the issues under protest by watching the act of civil disobedience . 
If you have not , it is probable that a thorough airing of the dispute by calm and rational debate would have been the better course . 
Aside from as much as $ 3.45 billion in recently approved federal aid , the state is expected to draw from a gubernatorial emergency fund that currently stands at an estimated $ 700 million . 
Some legislators expressed concern that a gas-tax increase would take too long and possibly damage chances of a major gas-tax-increasing ballot initiative that voters will consider next June . 
Sales rose 6.2 % to $ 1.45 billion from $ 1.37 billion . 
Those gains came from higher prices , particularly for disposable diapers and tissue products , and from increased sales , primarily for feminine-care products , the company said . 
Newsprint results continued to be depressed , the company added , because of industrywide price discounting . 
Sales rose 6.7 % to $ 4.27 billion from $ 4 billion . 
Specially trained IRS agents will look for under-reported income and unsupported deductions and credits . 
; they want to look at living standards and business assets . 
Courts have ruled that taxpayers must submit to TCMP audits , but the IRS will excuse from the fullscale rigors anyone who was audited without change for either 1986 or 1987 . 
He would ease the proposed penalties for delayed payroll-tax deposits and for faulty Form 1099 and other reports that taxpayers correct voluntarily . 
The General Accounting Office urges Congress to ensure that all penalties retain their force as deterrents . 
States are following suit . 
California enacted a rights law in 1988 . 
In 1989 , Illinois , Kansas , Ohio , Oregon and South Carolina have adopted rights laws , the Federation of Tax Administrators , a state officials ' group , reports ; the features vary . 
, the Federation of Tax Administrators , a state officials ' group , reports ; the features vary . 
The group 's Mark Cahoon says its efforts begun in 1989 have led to the introduction of bills in Massachusetts , Minnesota and Colorado to establish evenhanded procedures affecting all kinds of taxpayers . 
, the IRS says ; the rate stays 11 cents for each added mile . 
South Carolina 's congressional delegation has entered Senate and House bills to provide special casualty-loss treatment and other tax relief for timber growers in the hurricane disaster areas . 
Charles O. Givens of Mount Vernon , Ind. - investment broker , ex-accountant , and son of a former stable owner - bred Tennessee Walking Horses for six years , raised cattle for four , and never made a profit on either . 
He claimed losses totaling $ 42,455 -- and the IRS denied them all . 
: He kept detailed accounts , practiced soil conservation , enhanced his experience by consulting experts , spent several hours a day doing chores , and dropped the sideline when his best brood mare died . 
: He had no prior experience and did n't seek business counsel about them . 
All Eastern 's previous court efforts to head off the pilots ' demands have failed . 
Like any other creditor , the pilots will have to apply to the court for payment of their claim . 
`` The obligation is totally unwarranted , '' the statement said . 
`` This is a blow not only to Eastern but to the creditors committee , '' he said . 
An earlier plan , which had received the creditors ' approval in July , fell apart when Eastern changed its business plan . 
The clause was part of an agreement in which pilots accepted a substantial pay cut as long as no other labor group got a raise . Shortly after Texas Air took control of Eastern , some Machinists union supervisors received a 20 % pay raise . The pilots argued that this triggered a pay raise for them . Eastern has disputed the claim , but a federal district court , an appeals court and now the arbitrator have all sided with the pilots . 
The pilots argued that this triggered a pay raise for them . 
Eastern has disputed the claim , but a federal district court , an appeals court and now the arbitrator have all sided with the pilots . 
The pilots put the amount as high as $ 100 million , the company at $ 65 million . 
About 800 have crossed the picket lines and returned to work . 
The general public may not know his name , but he 's famous -- make that infamous -- in advertising circles : A marketing consultant , he pioneered slashing ad agency commissions , to the delight of advertising clients and the dismay of agencies . 
: A marketing consultant , he pioneered slashing ad agency commissions , to the delight of advertising clients and the dismay of agencies . 
Backer Spielvogel Bates Worldwide named Mr. Achenbaum , 62 , vice chairman of professional services , reporting directly to Carl Spielvogel , chairman and chief executive officer . 
They have since mellowed , although one senior Young & Rubicam executive , echoing others , said : `` I think ad agencies owe Carl -LCB- Spielvogel -RCB- a vote of thanks for getting him out of the consulting business . '' 
Mr. Achenbaum has counted among his clients some of the most visible blue-chip advertisers in the country , including Nissan , Toyota , Seagram and Backer Spielvogel clients Hyundai and J.P. Morgan . 
; aside from agency compensation issues , he helped Nissan , for example , come up with its positioning and pricing for its new Infiniti line . 
`` I 've done over 40 ad agency searches -LCB- for clients -RCB- , so I have a pretty good notion of what clients are interested in when they look for an agency , '' Mr. Achenbaum said . 
As a consultant , he has given seminars at agencies including Ogilvy & Mather on how to win new business . 
He pampers them ; he invites them to fabulous parties ; he strokes them . 
; he invites them to fabulous parties ; he strokes them . 
; he strokes them . 
Mr. Achenbaum , too , delves into his clients ' business . 
`` Carl has a much higher degree of intimacy with his clients than is ordinary for an agency his size . 
When the announcement came out , `` I picked up the phone and said , ` Why do n't you come to us ? ' '' Mr. Spielvogel said . 
; if a client spent $ 100 million on TV time , the agency made $ 15 million . 
More recently , he negotiated `` indemnification '' clauses in which an ad agency in some cases must pay a client if it drops the account . 
`` I was very frustrated , '' he said . 
`` The fact of the matter is , I am a marketer . 
That 's another reason -LCB- for the Backer Spielvogel job -RCB- . 
It struck me as a way to get back to what I really want to do . '' 
He will concentrate on , among others , J.P. Morgan and Hyundai . 
Mr. Achenbaum helped Morgan in its recent agency search , and he has a long relationship with Hyundai , which is having severe troubles , including declining sales . 
Instead of being just an ad agency , he said : `` We have redefined our mission here . 
Our mission is to help our clients grow , and to use every tool of marketing communications to accomplish that . '' 
Leonard Matthews , then-president of the American Association of Advertising Agencies , called Mr. Achenbaum a `` quisling '' in an incendiary 1987 speech . 
Yesterday , Mr. Matthews , now a consultant with the Stamford , Conn. , firm Matthews & Johnston , quipped , `` I think he 'll be very good at that -LCB- new job -RCB- . 
During the takeover , Mr. Hahn said he would put his account up for review if WPP 's bid were successful , but he did n't . 
For years , the company 's ads were tied in with pitches for Cannon sheets or Martex towels , for example , and an announcer at the end of the ads would tell customers where to `` find the true performance label . '' 
`` We 're making a fairly obvious plea for some emotional reaction , '' says Tom Rost , creative director at Ogilvy & Mather . 
Revenue increased 20 % to $ 246.6 million from $ 204.8 million . 
Skipping personal pleasantries , Mr. Lee picked up exactly where he left off several months earlier -- before the government crackdown in China -- when he had warned that the orthodox leadership in Beijing feared a plurality of views . 
`` It took Zhao Ziyang -LRB- former premier and party chief -RRB- 10 years to build a team of economists who understood how the Western economies work and now that team is part in exile , part being rusticated and part missing . '' 
Rebuilding that team , Mr. Lee predicted , will take another 10 years . 
`` That 's very sad for China and for Asia because China could have been a good engine for growth , not just for Hong Kong and Taiwan but for Japan , Korea and the rest of Asia . '' 
They are already industrialized ... . 
Their problem is one of inefficiency of an industrial economy . 
The Chinese problem is much greater -- it 's how to industrialize to begin with . '' 
Mikhail Gorbachev , he said , is ahead of China 's leaders in his awareness of the world . 
In such an arrangement , `` all benefit , '' he said . 
It 's not a zero-sum game . '' 
An Asian bloc is n't intended , he said . 
`` That 's not possible . '' 
I think the earlier strident notes struck by -LCB- U.S. Commerce Secretary Robert -RCB- Mosbacher and -LCB- U.S. Trade Representative -RCB- Carla Hills have been more rounded . 
I believe the U.S. is becoming more patient and circumspect , '' he said . 
`` It 's the total relationship that is important . '' 
`` They 'll be more timorous in tackling their own voters , like opening up more to agricultural imports from America , hurting their farmers . '' 
We are willing to share the political burden of being host to America , an imperial power . 
We think it is n't such a great burden , that it carries no stigma , and we are prepared to do it . '' 
I really do not understand how it is that Filipinos feel so passionately involved in this father figure that they want to dispose of and yet they need . 
I just do n't understand it . 
My relationships with the British are totally different . 
They lorded it over me . 
They did me some good . 
They did themselves even more good . 
They let me down when the Japanese came down -LCB- during World War II -RCB- ... . 
I do n't feel down or done in because I show British serials on my television network or read their books . 
I mean it is a normal adult relationship . 
The occasional Englishman tries to put on airs but we let it pass ... . 
It 's just comic when they try to pretend they 're still the master race . '' 
I suppose sooner or later , the Japanese would have to fill up a large part of the gap on the naval side . 
Maybe the Chinese , maybe even the Indians . '' 
Is the trouble over ? 
Can Sihanouk and Hun Sen knock off the Khmer Rouge still supported by China ? 
He ca n't . 
To get the Khmer Rouge as part of a process for elections . 
Let 's put it bluntly . The Chinese can not be seen to have made use of the Khmer Rouge and then discard them . '' 
The Chinese can not be seen to have made use of the Khmer Rouge and then discard them . '' 
Mr. Wain is editor of The Asian Wall Street Journal . 
The shocks generated nerve impulses that traveled via spine to brain and showed up clearly on a brain-wave monitor , indicating no damage to the delicate spinal tissue . 
The tragedy , he adds , `` galvanized me '' to look for a way to prevent similar cases . 
Besides holding the promise of safer spinal surgery , the probe could improve the diagnosis of brain and nerve disorders such as strokes and multiple sclerosis . 
Perhaps most exciting , the device is thrusting open a window to the workings of the brain . 
If positioned over the brain 's motor-control area , the hand-held electromagnets generate nerve impulses that zip down motor nerves and activate muscles , making , say , a finger twitch . 
In principle , they will enable doctors to check the body 's motor system the way an electrician tests a home 's electrical circuits by running current through them . 
`` All we could do was tell a patient , ` squeeze my fingers as hard as you can ' or ` raise your arm . ' 
`` Under the best circumstances such tests are subjective ; when a patient is unconscious , they do n't work at all . 
; when a patient is unconscious , they do n't work at all . 
In the 1960s , Mayo Clinic researchers developed magnetic devices to stimulate motor nerves in the hand and other limbs . 
In August , a Chicago conference on such devices attracted more than 100 researchers , who reported studies on everything from brain mapping to physical therapy . 
A problem , he adds , is that anesthetized brains are more resistant to magnetic stimulation than awake ones . 
One apparent side effect is a minor increase in a brain hormone . 
The machines , which at $ 12,500 are inexpensive by medical standards , have n't been approved in the U.S. for marketing as brain stimulators but are sold for stimulating nerves in the hand , legs and other non-brain areas . 
Researchers can apply for permission to use the probes for brain studies . 
The devices might someday serve as temporary pacemakers or restarters for stopped hearts , says Dr. Tacker , whose prototype was dubbed the `` Tacker whacker . '' 
Probing with the stimulators , National Institutes of Health scientists recently showed how the brain reorganizes motor-control resources after an amputation . 
Similar studies are expected to reveal how stroke patients ' brains regroup -- a first step toward finding ways to bolster that process and speed rehabilitation . 
At the State University of New York at Brooklyn , researchers flash two groups of different letters on a computer screen in front of human guinea pigs . 
Between flashes , certain areas in subjects ' brains are jolted with a magnetic stimulator . 
`` Trying to answer that is suggesting all kinds of theories , '' such as precisely where and how the brain processes incoming signals from the eyes . 
Last year , Du Pont agreed to pay $ 4.5 million for rights to superconductor work at the University of Houston . 
The offering was priced with an 8.95 % coupon rate at 99.1875 % to yield 9.19 % . 
The trust will issue the certificates . 
Even after-hours drag ; `` karaoke '' bars , where Japanese revelers sing over recorded music , are prohibited by Mexico 's powerful musicians union . 
; `` karaoke '' bars , where Japanese revelers sing over recorded music , are prohibited by Mexico 's powerful musicians union . 
Keeping the Japanese happy will be one of the most important tasks facing conservative leader Ernesto Ruffo when he takes office Nov. 1 , as the first opposition governor in Mexico 's modern history . 
Conservative Japanese investors are put off by what they consider Mexico 's restrictive investment regulations and loose work habits . 
From the Mexicans ' viewpoint , vaunted tactics of methodical Japanese managers do n't count for much in a land where a saying says `` there are no fixed rules . '' 
The young president so admires Japanese discipline that he sends his children to a Japanese school in Mexico City . 
He already has finagled a $ 2 billion loan from the Japanese government . 
Mr. Salinas 's unpopular Institutional Revolutionary Party , or PRI , faces congressional elections in 1991 . For the PRI to stand a chance , Mr. Salinas has to press on with an economic program that so far has succeeded in lowering inflation and providing moderate economic growth . 
Mr. Salinas needs big investment inflows -- quickly . 
`` The Japanese will come to Mexico , but not immediately , '' says Kazushige Suzuki , director-general of the Japanese External Trade Organization in Mexico . 
If not now , when ? 
`` When the fruit is ripe , it falls from the tree by itself , '' he says . 
`` There will be big Japanese investments probably five to 10 years from now . '' 
`` There seems to be a presumption in some sectors of -LRB- Mexico 's -RRB- government that there is a lot of Japanese money waiting behind the gate , and that by slightly opening the gate , that money will enter Mexico . 
I do n't think that is the case . '' 
`` Because of distance , it takes a while for them to appreciate the economic stability we 've achieved , '' says one economic policymaker . 
It is hoped that other Japanese would then follow the leader . 
Unable to get a new law through a congress with a strong leftist bloc , Mexico jury-rigged the existing law 's regulations . It created special 20-year trusts to allow foreigners 100 % ownership in some once-closed industries . It also made artful use of semantics , redefining as non-strategic industries some that had been in the national domain . 
It created special 20-year trusts to allow foreigners 100 % ownership in some once-closed industries . 
Mr. Nakamura cites the case of a customer who wants to build a giant tourism complex in Baja and has been trying for eight years to get around Mexican restrictions on foreign ownership of beachfront property . He could develop the beach through a trust , but instead is trying have his grandson become a naturalized Mexican so his family gains direct control . 
Opinion is mixed over its three-month prospects . 
Half of those polled see the currency trending lower over the next three months , while the others forecast a modest rebound after the New Year . 
A month ago , a similar survey predicted the dollar would be trading at 1.8690 marks and 139.75 yen by the end of October . 
Those with a bullish view see the dollar trading up near 1.9000 marks and 145 yen , while the dollar bears see the U.S. currency trading around 1.7600 marks and 138 yen . 
The drop marked the largest monthly tumble since a 19 % slide in January 1982 . 
Several other European central banks , notably in Britain , followed the West German Bundesbank 's lead by raising their own key rates . 
`` If 135 is broken , some panic will be seen , '' he predicted , explaining that Japanese institutions are comfortable with the dollar anywhere between current levels and 135 yen . 
He contended that the Fed wo n't ease rates further , but predicted Bundesbank officials will relax key rates in West Germany . 
He said he expects U.S. interest rates to decline , dragging the dollar down to around 1.80 marks by the end of January after a short-lived dash to 1.87 marks by the end of November . 
West German interest rates , he said , will remain unchanged . 
`` I ca n't really see it dropping far below 1.80 marks . '' 
He predicted the U.S. unit will skid below 1.80 marks to around 1.78 marks this month and 1.75 marks by the beginning of the new year . 
Now , the White House has decided to accept the higher wage over only two years . 
The sub-minimum wage would apply only to first-time teen-age workers for 90 days . 
The only permanent losers will be the 200,000 or so workers everyone agrees will be priced out of a job at the $ 4.25 rate Congress is likely to approve today . 
It is compromises such as this that convince Washington 's liberals that if they simply stay the course , this administration will stray from its own course on this and other issues . 
That inquiry has n't resolved similar allegations involving another Chemical options trader . 
The spokeswoman said the Frankfurt situation was `` totally different '' from problems in the interest-rate options unit . 
In an interest-rate options contract , a client pays a fee to a bank for custom-tailored protection against adverse interest-rate swings for a specified period . 
In a forward-rate agreement , a client agrees to an exchange rate on a future currency transaction . 
From 1987 to 1988 , the value of Chemical 's option contracts outstanding mushroomed to $ 37 billion from $ 17 billion . 
More importantly , the volume of options written exceeded those purchased by almost 2-to-1 . 
With such a lopsided book of options , traders say , Chemical was more vulnerable to erroneous valuation assumptions . 
Its valuation methodologies , she said , `` are recognized as some of the best on the Street . 
Not a lot was needed to be done . 
The ever-optimistic Mr. Wathen has learned that while acquiring a big brand-name company can be a shortcut to growth , it can also bring a host of unforeseen problems . 
He joined the firm in 1963 and bought it from the owners the next year . 
He could acquire a staff of loyal Pinkerton 's employees , many of whom had spent their entire careers with the firm , he could eliminate a competitor and he could get the name recognition he 'd wanted . 
I love this business , '' he says . 
`` Most of the LBO guys do n't know how to run a business anyway . '' 
`` We were n't allowed to do any due diligence because of competitive reasons . 
If we had , it might have scared us off , '' he says . 
He says his team could n't tell whether accounts receivable had been paid or not . 
Pinkerton 's had locked itself into low-price contracts to win new business , with no hope of profitability until the contracts expired , he adds . 
One office had 19 people doing the work of three , `` and half of the employees had company automobiles . '' 
He began by closing 120 of the combined companies ' 260 offices in two months , eliminating about 31 % of the company 's 2,500-person adminstrative staff , including more than 100 sales positions . 
He shut down the company 's tony New York headquarters . 
Last year , earnings of the combined companies did n't cover debt service and Pinkerton 's was forced to borrow $ 20 million of subordinated debt . 
`` We would n't have had to refinance if a lot of the problems had n't been there , '' Mr. Wathen says . 
This year , Mr. Wathen says the firm will be able to service debt and still turn a modest profit . 
The company recently filed suit in state court in Los Angeles against American Brands , seeking at least $ 40 million in damages from the Old Greenwich , Conn.-based company . 
`` American Brand 's failure to surrender the gold watch has damaged new Pinkerton 's in an amount as yet -LCB- to be -RCB- determined and deprived it of a valuable artifact for which it had bargained , '' the suit charges . 
`` Their approach did n't work ; mine is . 
Egg prices averaged 64.2 cents a dozen , down 0.2 cent from September . 
Paramount said the gain would be recorded in its fourth quarter , which ended yesterday . 
Of the proceeds , $ 500 million will be used to fund its tender offer . 
Sea Containers added that the recapitalization plan will reduce its debt by more than $ 500 million . 
In late May , Stena Holding AG and Tiphook PLC , launched a $ 50-a-share , or $ 777 million , tender offer for the Hamilton , Bermuda-based Sea Containers . 
In mid-August , the companies , through their jointly owned holding company , Temple Holdings Ltd. , sweetened the offer to $ 63 a share , or $ 963 million . 
Michael Carstens , an analyst with Tucker Anthony & R.L. Day , added that the sale of assets would allow Sea Containers to focus on its core container businesses . 
The company said its directors , management and subsidiaries will remain long-term investors and wo n't tender any of their shares under the offer . 
Sea Containers will soon set a date for its annual shareholder meeting to seek holder approval for the offer . 
No way . 
Congress has just made it easier for the affluent to qualify for insured loans from the deficit-ridden Federal Housing Administration . 
It appears that the only thing Congress is learning from the HUD story is how to enlarge its control of the honey pot going to special interests . 
Last week , housing lobbies persuaded Congress to raise the ceiling to $ 124,875 , making FHA loans more accessible to the well-to-do . 
This is no idle fear last year the FHA lost $ 4.2 billion in loan defaults . 
The Senate Banking Committee will begin hearings next week on their proposal to expand existing federal housing programs . 
Other Senators want to lower the down payments required on FHA-insured loans . 
Experience has shown that the most important element in predicting a housing-loan default is the down payment . 
If housing prices continue to fall , many borrowers would be better off walking away from their homes and leaving taxpayers with the losses . 
Much the same thing happened with busted S&Ls , a problem Congress just `` solved '' with a $ 166 billion bailout . 
That sounds like a formula for ensuring that he gets dragged into the next HUD tar pit . 
A group of 27 Senators has written Mr. Kemp urging him to reject Cranston-Mitchell and focus on programs that empower the poor rather than create vast new government obligations . 
None of the grants had been requested by HUD , judged competitively or were the subject of a single hearing . 
This week , a Baltimore Sun editorial said the Lantos subcommittee on HUD should forget about Sam Pierce 's testimony for the moment and call some other witnesses : the various congressional sponsors of the 40 pork-barrel projects . 
`` If HUD is to be reformed , '' it concluded , Members of Congress will `` have to start looking into , and doing something about , the practices of their colleagues . '' 
Proponents of expanding FHA programs say they merely want to help home buyers who are frozen out of high-priced markets . 
Jack Kemp has submitted a package of reforms , and they are surely headed for the Capitol Hill sausage-grinder . 
Like the S&L mess before it , this is a problem Congress should be solving , not ignoring . 
Under the plan , Gillette South Africa will sell manufacturing facilities in Springs , South Africa , and its business in toiletries and plastic bags to Twins Pharmaceuticals Ltd. , an affiliate of Anglo American Corp. , a South African company . 
Gillette said its continued presence in South Africa `` enables it to make meaningful contributions to South African society , to the lives of its employees and to the communities in which it operates . '' 
: With pros and cons in limbo , I feel like a hung jury . 
The latest period had profit from continuing operations of $ 4 million . 
Revenue gained 13 % to $ 77.3 million from $ 68.5 million . 
Failure to check rising medical costs ultimately could `` lead some of us who today are free-market advocates to re-examine our thinking and positions with respect to government-sponsored national health insurance , '' Arthur Puccini , a General Electric Co. vice president , warned earlier this year . 
Both the AFL-CIO and the National Association of Manufacturers are calling for measures to control rising costs , improve quality and provide care to the 31 million Americans who currently lack health insurance . 
`` I ca n't remember a time when virtually everyone can agree on what the problem is , '' says Mr. Seidman , who heads the AFL-CIO 's department dealing with health matters . 
`` It 's a bottom-line issue . '' 
Business complained earlier this year when Sen. Kennedy introduced a bill that would require employers to provide a minimum level of health insurance to workers but does n't contain cost-control measures . 
Partly in response , a bipartisan group of senators from the finance and labor committees is drafting a plan to attract broader support . 
It will feature a cost-containment provision designed to keep expanded benefits from fueling higher care prices . 
Management and labor worry that the gap makes U.S. companies less competitive . 
`` The cost of health care is eroding standards of living and sapping industrial strength , '' complains Walter Maher , a Chrysler health-and-benefits specialist . 
Health benefits are contentious issues in the strikes against Pittston Co. and Nynex Corp . 
In their new contract this year , American Telephone & Telegraph Co. and the Communications Workers of America agreed to look for `` prompt and lasting national solutions '' to rising health-care costs . 
Carl Schramm , president of the Health Insurance Association of America , scoffs at `` capitalists who want to socialize the entire financing system '' for health . 
`` They hope they can buy some government cost discipline , '' but this is a false hope , Mr. Schramm says . 
He asserts that government has done an even worse job of controlling its health bill than business . 
The administration lacks a comprehensive health-care policy . Congress still is struggling to dismantle the unpopular Catastrophic Care Act of 1988 , which boosted benefits for the elderly and taxed them to pay for the new coverage . 
Congress still is struggling to dismantle the unpopular Catastrophic Care Act of 1988 , which boosted benefits for the elderly and taxed them to pay for the new coverage . 
A quadrennial commission appointed by Health and Human Services Secretary Louis Sullivan is taking a broad look at the economics of Medicare for the elderly , Medicaid for the poor and the health system in general . 
The pressure for change will rise with costs . 
`` I think employers are really going to be the ones to push for major change , '' says Sharon Canner , a health expert at NAM . 
Advocates hope that such standards will improve treatment while limiting unnecessary tests and medical procedures . 
HHS Secretary Sullivan estimates that as much as 25 % of the medical procedures performed each year may be inappropriate or unnecessary . 
`` To slow the rise in total spending , it will be necessary to reduce per-capita use of services , '' the NAM warns in a policy statement . 
This will `` require us to define -- and redefine -- what is ` necessary ' or ` appropriate ' care . 
This involves trade-offs and -LCB- it -RCB- cuts against the grain of existing consumer and even provider conceptions of what is ` necessary . ' '' 
The three existing plants and their land will be sold . 
He added that he had spoken with Mr. Laidig , whom he referred to as a friend , by telephone Monday evening . 
Georgia-Pacific closed down $ 2.50 , at $ 50.875 in Big Board trading . 
The analysts argued that Georgia-Pacific 's offer , the first hostile bid ever among major players in the paper industry , ends the unwritten taboo on hostile bids , and will push managements to look closely at the industry 's several attractive takeover candidates . 
It was just the culture of the industry that kept it from happening . 
The Georgia-Pacific offer has definitely changed the landscape , '' said Gary Palmero of Oppenheimer & Co . 
Added Mark Rogers of Prudential-Bache Securities Inc. : `` It 's much easier to be second . '' 
Based on 1988 sales , Georgia-Pacific ranked third at $ 9.51 billion , behind Weyerhaeuser Co. at $ 10 billion and International Paper Co. at $ 9.53 billion . Nekoosa ranked 11th with sales of $ 3.59 billion . The combined company would have had 1988 sales of $ 13.1 billion . 
Nekoosa ranked 11th with sales of $ 3.59 billion . 
The combined company would have had 1988 sales of $ 13.1 billion . 
At a time when most analysts and industry consultants say pulp and paper prices are heading for a dive , adding capacity and debt could squeeze Georgia-Pacific if the industry declines more than the company expects . 
`` Depending on how far down you go , it may be difficult to pay off that debt . '' 
The two companies each produce market pulp , containerboard and white paper . 
That means goods could be manufactured closer to customers , saving shipping costs , he said . 
`` The fit is so good , we see this as a time of opportunity , '' he said . 
The board has 10 business days to respond . 
Nekoosa is incorporated in Maine . 
`` I 'm sure everybody else is putting pencil to paper , '' said Kathryn McAuley , an analyst with First Manhattan Co . 
Canadian Pacific could n't be reached for comment , and MacMillan Bloedel said it has n't any plans to make a bid for Nekoosa . 
Among paper company stocks that rallied on the Big Board because of the offer were Union Camp , up $ 2.75 to $ 37.75 , Federal Paperboard , up $ 1.75 to $ 27.875 , Mead , up $ 2.375 to $ 38.75 , and Temple Inland Inc. , up $ 3.75 to $ 62.25 . 
In over-the-counter national trading , Bowater Inc. jumped $ 1.50 to $ 27.50 . 
He added : `` Every paper company management has to be saying to itself , ` Before someone comes after me , I 'm going to go after somebody . ' '' 
Several projects , he said , are still on the drawing board . 
Some predicted that Nekoosa will end up being owned by a Japanese company . 
It is a considerably delayed reaction and it 's not a severe one at all , '' she added . 
In the 12 months ended in September , wages and salaries of private-sector workers rose 4.4 % , while health insurance costs spurted by 13.7 % . 
The consumer price index climbed 4.3 % in the same period . 
The overall private-sector employment cost index , which includes both wages and benefits , rose 4.7 % in the 12 months ended in September , compared with 4.5 % for both the 12 months ended in June and the 12 months ended September 1988 . 
For private-sector union workers , the cost of wages and benefits rose 0.9 % in the third quarter . For nonunion workers , the costs rose 1.4 % . 
For nonunion workers , the costs rose 1.4 % . 
The index rose 1.1 % in the second quarter . 
It rose 4.8 % for the 12 months ended in June and 4.7 % in the 12 months ended in September 1988 . 
StatesWest , which has a 7.25 % stake in Mesa , said it may purchase more Mesa stock or make a tender offer directly to Mesa shareholders . 
Mesa flies to 42 cities in New Mexico , Arizona , Wyoming , Colorado and Texas . 
Long-term bond prices rose despite trepidation about what a key economic report will show today . 
Great Northern Nekoosa soared $ 20.125 a share , to $ 62.875 , substantially above the $ 58 a share Georgia-Pacific is offering . 
That indicates speculators are betting a higher offer is in the wings . 
Prices of other paper makers rose sharply , although Georgia-Pacific fell $ 2.50 a share , to $ 50.875 . 
Some traders point out that as the big brokerage firms back out of program trading for their own accounts or for clients , opportunities increase for others to engage in the controversial practice . 
That 's what happened yesterday . 
A slowing economy and its effect on corporate earnings is the foremost concern of many traders and analysts . 
Unless the Federal Reserve eases interest rates soon to stimulate the economy , profits could remain disappointing . 
If the national survey confirms a pickup in the manufacturing sector , it could further depress bond prices while bolstering stock prices and the dollar . 
Although the Treasury is expected to announce details of its November quarterly refunding operation today , the Nov. 79 schedule could be delayed unless Congress and the president act soon to lift the nation 's debt ceiling . 
Volume on the New York Stock Exchange totaled 176.1 million shares . 
Advancing issues on the Big Board surged ahead of decliners 1,111 to 
The Treasury 's benchmark 30-year bond gained less than a quarter of a point , or less than $ 2.50 for each $ 1,000 of face amount . 
The yield on the issue slipped to 7.91 % . 
In late afternoon New York trading , the dollar was at 1.8415 marks and 142.85 yen compared with 1.8340 marks and 141.90 yen late Monday . 
The group has forecast 1989 revenue of 56.9 billion francs . 
Coast earned $ 10.2 million , or 67 cents a share , in the year-ago quarter . 
It includes removing $ 242 million in good will from the books , issuing $ 150 million in preferred stock and commencing an exchange offer for $ 52 million in convertible bonds . 
The company said its junk-bond portfolio after these moves had been reduced to less than 1 % of assets . 
; cigarette ads have been prohibited on television since 1971 . 
The company 's research suggests that its name recognition among most consumers remains unusually low , although its array of brands -- including Maxwell House coffee , Jell-O , Cheez Whiz , and Miller beer -- blanket supermarket shelves . 
Until now , its corporate ads , mainly promoting its sponsorship of the arts , have appeared almost exclusively in newspapers and magazines . 
`` If they think well of the company through our support of the Bill of Rights , it follows they 'll think well of our products . '' 
Mr. Smith says the Bill of Rights commercial , which trumpets the themes of liberty and freedom of expression , is n't designed to have any special appeal for smokers . 
Although Philip Morris typically tries to defend the rights of smokers with free-choice arguments , `` this has nothing to do with cigarettes , nor will it ever , '' the spokesman says . 
`` I 'm outraged because this company is portraying itself at the heart of American culture and political freedom and in fact it 's a killer , '' says Michael Pertschuk , former chairman of the Federal Trade Commission and a tobacco-industry critic . 
`` It should be treated like the Medellin -LCB- drug -RCB- mafia , not the Founding Fathers . '' 
These include trying to protect its print advertising by invoking the First Amendment , and wooing blacks by portraying itself as a protector of civil rights . 
-LRB- The commercial features , among others , the voice of Martin Luther King Jr. , the slain civil rights leader . -RRB- 
`` This is clever , subliminal advertising that really says , ` Smokers have rights , too , ' '' says Al Ries , chairman of Trout & Ries Inc. , a Greenwich , Conn. , marketing strategy firm . 
`` This is designed to get the wagons in a circle and defend the smoking franchise . '' 
If you can do that and at the same time send a message that supports your business , that 's brilliant . '' 
`` They are n't showing James Madison taking a puff or lighting up , '' says Laurence Tribe , a professor of constitutional law at Harvard University . 
`` All they are trying to do is borrow some of the legitimacy of the Bill of Rights itself . 
The Big Board 's composite index was up more than 1.4 % , and the Dow Jones Industrial Average jumped 1.6 % . 
The Nasdaq 100 rose 7.08 to 445.23 . 
The Financial Index of 100 biggest banks and insurance issues added 2.19 to 447.76 . 
Other strong sectors were indicated in gains of the Transportation Index , up 7.55 to 475.35 , and the Utility Index , up 8.68 to 730.37 . 
Microsoft added 2 1\/8 to 81 3\/4 and Oracle Systems rose 1 1\/2 to 23 1\/4 . 
Intel was up 1 3\/8 to 33 3\/4 . 
Analysts say rallies in the group historically have lifted the market , while weakness in the sector often sank unlisted share prices broadly . 
The stocks have been pummeled repeatedly by inventory gluts and disappointing earnings as the industry matures and slows . 
Some even claim the group has become a lagging , not leading , indicator . 
While the composite index lost less than a third of its year-to-date gains in the market 's recent decline , the technology group 's gains were more than halved . 
The group is divided primarily between software , semiconductors and computers . While computer stocks have taken the biggest hit from the slowdown in the industry , many software and semiconductor stocks have continued to outperform the market . 
Microsoft is up more than 50 % this year , while Intel is up more than 40 % . 
The volatility of smaller technology companies has served the group well overall in recent stock trading , according to Hambrecht & Quist 's technology stock indexes . 
The Nasdaq Bank Index rose 0.17 to 432.78 . 
He said that investors will scour the October employment report , due out Friday , for clues about the direction of the economy and the immediate outlook for interest rates . 
Shearson , with its in-house order execution system , has handled the bulk of such program trades in the over-the-counter market . 
The announcement effectively removes the British government as an impediment to a takeover of the company , which is being stalked by General Motors and Ford . 
It surged 2 3\/4 to 6 on volume of more than 1.7 million shares after the company agreed to be acquired by Japan 's Chugai Pharmaceutical for about $ 110 million -- almost double the market price of Gen-Probe 's stock . 
The company has toted up over $ 40 million in contracts in the past two days . 
Monday , MCI announced a $ 27 million multiyear contract with the investment bank Stuart-James . Yesterday , it received a $ 15 million , three-year contract from Drexel Burnham Lambert . 
Yesterday , it received a $ 15 million , three-year contract from Drexel Burnham Lambert . 
Late Monday , the Federal Reserve Board said it is delaying approval of First Union Corp. 's proposed $ 849 million acquisition of Florida National Banks pending the outcome of an examination into First Union 's lending practices in low-income heighborhoods . 
Florida National said yesterday that it remains committed to the merger . 
Faced with inevitable defeat , the once dominant industry declined any recorded vote on the ban , which covers all but a fraction of 1 % of daily flights in the U.S. . 
The additional spending pushes the measure more than $ 2 billion above its prescribed budget ceiling , and the House Appropriations Committee leadership must now seek a waiver in hopes of completing action today . 
No single bill this year includes more discretionary spending for domestic programs and , apart from the space station , the measure incorporates far-reaching provisions affecting the federal mortgage market . 
This provision met early and strong resistance from investment bankers worried about disruptions in their clients ' portfolios . 
A string of costly projects , including the high-speed national aerospace plane and the advanced communications technology satellite , would continue to be developed within these limits . 
`` It 's hard to get the administration 's attention on anything , '' said Rep. Bill Frenzel -LRB- R. , Minn. -RRB- , `` because the whole agreement was built on gimmickry . '' 
Senate Appropriations Committee Chairman Robert Byrd -LRB- D. , W.Va . -RRB- strongly resisted deeper cuts sought by the House . 
The compromise bill passed the House last week but has now provoked jurisdictional fights with the Senate Foreign Relations Committee , which jealously protects its prerogatives over operations at the State Department . 
House and Senate appropriators sought to establish a Nov. 30 deadline after which their bill would become the last word on how funds are distributed . But on a 53-45 roll call this provision was stripped from the bill last night after Foreign Relations Chairman Claiborne Pell -LRB- D. , R.I . -RRB- complained that it was an intrusion on exclusive powers vested in his panel for more than three decades . 
The remaining $ 40 million can be used over three years for oil and gas acquisitions , the company said . 
The company put up `` virtually all '' of its oil and gas properties as collateral , he said . 
In one of many rosy scenarios , Bear Stearns 's Gary Schneider wrote in March that its real estate alone had a value of $ 4.5 billion . 
Throw in its railroad , minerals , pipeline and oil assets , he and others argued , and the Chicago-based conglomerate should be worth 30 a share . 
With real estate experts Olympia & York and Samuel Zell 's Itel owning close to 40 % of Santa Fe 's stock , management was under pressure -- in a favored phrase of Wall Street -- to quickly `` maximize values . '' 
Since the real estate unit also includes debt , the imputed value of the real estate itself is close to $ 3 billion . 
`` The upside was in the intangible real estate ... which is no longer an intangible . '' 
A compromise between bulls and bears puts remaining assets and cash -- including its 44 % stake in its publicly traded pipeline -- at $ 2 billion . 
The spinoff argument , after all , reverses the current notion that assets are worth more to private buyers than to public shareholders . 
Mr. Schneider of Bear Stearns says he is recalculating the worth of the company 's assets and , in the meantime , is sticking to his `` buy '' recommendation on the belief that he will find `` values '' of 30 a share . 
He adds : `` If for any reason I do n't have the values , then I wo n't recommend it . '' 
Her recent report classifies the stock as a `` hold . '' 
Since most of the unit 's real estate is in California , the pension fund will be a useful political ally in a state where development is often held hostage to zoning boards . 
The takeover would be followed by a restructuring of Orkem 's U.K. unit , including the addition of related Orkem businesses and possibly further acquisitions . 
Orkem said it eventually would seek to make a public share offering in its U.K. business . 
Mr. Ackerman contended that it was a direct response to his efforts to gain control of Datapoint . 
; per-share earnings rose to five pence from 4.5 pence . 
Brooks Brothers , which Marks bought last year , saw operating profit drop in half to # 5 million . 
Another federal examiner , John Meek , said Lincoln 's principal owner , Charles Keating Jr. , and his family drew off at least $ 34 million from the thrift in salaries , bonuses and proceeds from securities sales in the 3 1\/2 years before federal authorities seized it earlier this year . 
He said the evidence pointed to wrongdoing by Mr. Keating `` and others , '' although he did n't allege any specific violation . 
`` It sure smells like it , '' he said . 
He said 30 % of the loans he sampled were `` dead meat on the day they were made . '' 
`` We simply do n't agree with that or the findings of their investigation . '' 
In an interview , he said federal regulators eventually declared one of the loans the state regulator cited to be a total loss , and forced Lincoln to make an $ 18 million downward adjustment on another . 
Federal officials seized the association in April , a day after the parent corporation entered bankruptcy-law proceedings . 
`` He took the reckless course of ignoring the evidence , '' Rep. Gonzalez said . 
`` Frankly , it was like he worked for the Lincoln public-relations department , '' Mr. Stelzer testified . 
We observed at least two large plastic bags of shredded paper loaded into this truck . '' 
Mr. Bickwit said , `` I can see why an S&L examiner would regard these as unusual activities , '' but said the overseas investments `` essentially broke even '' for the S&L . 
It is widely expected that they will . 
Second-tier companies are receiving even less per ton . 
A spokesman for LTV Steel , which is a unit of Dallas-based LTV Corp. , noted that steel prices , adjusted for inflation , increased only 1.7 % between 1981 and the fourth quarter of 1988 , while the prices of other industrial commodities increased nearly five times as much . 
Both companies are in the process of negotiating contracts with LTV and others . 
Mr. Marcus believes spot steel prices will continue to fall through early 1990 and then reverse themselves . 
Steelmakers announced a round of base-price increases last year , but began offering sizable discounts over the summer . 
If , by that time , the network reaches 14 million homes , the contract will be renewed for five more years . 
The company took a $ 20 million charge in the fiscal first quarter ended April 29 , related to discontinuing the service . 
Twenty years later , two California academics , Stanley Cohen and Herbert Boyer , made `` recombinant '' DNA , transplanting a toad 's gene into bacteria , which then reproduced toad genes . 
With $ 500 apiece and an injection of outside capital , they formed Genentech Inc . 
Commercial gene-splicing was born . 
The next to be cloned , human insulin , had market potential and Genentech licensed it to Eli Lilly , which produced 80 % of the insulin used by 1.5 million U.S. diabetics . 
Genentech 's 1988 sales were $ 335 million , both from licensing and its own products . 
It said the venture , expected to take control of the facilities Dec. 1 , would also serve another 3,300 independent Unocal gasoline stations . 
Sen. Mitchell is confident he has sufficient votes to block such a measure with procedural actions . 
While that could make it vulnerable to a veto by Mr. Bush , Democrats argue that a presidential rejection would give their party a valuable issue in next year 's congressional elections . 
Pushing the issue on legislation needed to avoid default by the federal government , he told reporters , `` does n't seem to be very good strategy to me . '' 
To avoid default , lawmakers must pass legislation raising the limit to $ 3.12 trillion from $ 2.80 trillion by next Wednesday , according to the Treasury . 
The company attributed the decrease in part to the exclusion of the company 's British sales from the current year 's figures as a result of the subsidiary 's status as a proposed discontinued operation and , in part , to lower sales in certain key foreign and domestic accounts . 
Traders said the buy programs came from very large institutional accounts that were also active in the stock-index futures markets . 
At one point , almost all of the shares in the 20-stock Major Market Index , which mimics the industrial average , were sharply higher . 
Standard & Poor 's 500-Stock Index climbed 5.29 to 340.36 , the Dow Jones Equity Market Index added 4.70 to 318.79 and the New York Stock Exchange Composite Index climbed 2.65 to 
Nearly 6.3 million shares , or about 11.5 % of the company 's shares outstanding , changed hands in Big Board composite trading . 
Much of the instability in stock prices lately has been blamed on arbitrage trading , designed to profit from differences in prices between stocks and index futures . 
Pfizer gained 1 7\/8 to 67 5\/8 , Schering-Plough added 2 1\/4 to 75 3\/4 , Eli Lilly rose 1 3\/8 to 62 1\/8 and Upjohn firmed 3\/4 to 38 . 
An advisory committee of the Food and Drug Administration recommended that the agency approve Eminase , the company 's heart drug . 
; investor Carl Icahn has recently increased his stake in USX , which separately reported earnings that were in line with expectations . 
The upgrade reflected the 20 % decline in shares of the bank since the firm lowered its rating in early October , based on the belief the stock had become expensive . 
The company said it would repurchase half of its common shares at $ 70 each , sell an estimated $ 1.1 billion in assets and pay a special preferred-stock dividend to common-stock holders . 
Armstrong added 1\/8 to 39 1\/8 . 
The company agreed definitively to be acquired by Ogden Corp. in a stock swap valued at about $ 82.5 million . 
Net income was down from a year ago , when a gain from the restructuring of a retirement plan boosted earnigs . 
As part of the agreement , Cilcorp said it will pay Hunter $ 4 million in exchange for agreements not to compete . 
The seaborne meetings wo n't disrupt plans for a formal summit next spring or summer , at which an arms-control treaty is likely to be completed . 
While residents claimed a victory , military authorities said they had confiscated the equivalent of more than $ 1.5 million to make up for the unpaid taxes . 
In East Berlin , Communist Party officials considered legalizing New Forum , the country 's largest opposition alliance , as about 20,000 demonstrators staged protests in three cities to press demands for democratic freedoms . 
In Washington , the Senate voted to condemn Ortega 's threat to cancel the truce , and Bush said he would review U.S. policy toward Managua , including the possibility of renewing military aid to the rebels . 
The vote in Ankara was boycotted by opposition politicians , who vowed to oust Ozal . 
The scientists at Plant Genetic Systems N.V. isolated a gene that could lead to a generation of plants possessing a high-production trait . 
The balloting to decide when and how to fill the position , which replaces a collective presidency under a pact signed by the ruling Socialists and opposition groups , is to be held Nov . 
The stock began trading this summer at $ 14 apiece . 
Revenue rose 33 % to $ 378.1 million from $ 283.8 million . 
He said he is `` very surprised '' by the furor over program trading and the exchange 's role in it that has raged in recent days . 
Mr. Phelan has n't been making public remarks in recent days , and many people have urged him to take more of a leadership role on the program trading issue . 
It did n't work . 
That was when the exchange took a new tack by publishing monthly statistics listing the top 15 program trading firms . 
People familiar with the exchange said another idea likely to be approved is expanding the monthly reports on program trading to cover specific days or even hours of heavy program trading and who was doing it . 
American Express Co. 's Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. unit said it ceased all index-arbitrage program trading for client accounts . 
If bringing the message is a crime , I 'm guilty of it . '' 
`` We are looking for representation we have n't had , '' a specialist said . 
`` We 've had dictation . '' 
The Big Board wants to keep such index funds from fleeing to overseas markets , but only as long as it `` handles it intelligently , '' Mr. Phelan said . 
Most revisions it will propose will be geared toward slowing down program trading during stressful periods , said officials working with the exchange . 
Computers have made trading more rapid , but that can be fixed with some fine-tuning . 
`` I think if you -LCB- can -RCB- speed things up , you can slow them down , '' Mr. Phelan said . 
What I 'm trying to say to people is , it 's proper to worry about program trading , but it 's only a piece of the business . '' 
`` A lot of people would like to go back to 1970 , '' before program trading , he said . 
`` I would like to go back to 1970 . 
`` Japan 's markets are more stable , '' he said . 
`` If that continues , a significant number of -LCB- U.S. . -RCB- companies will go over there to raise money . '' 
The program trading situation seems to have driven individual investors as well as others out of the market , and even Europeans are suspicious . 
The exchange should take a pro-active position . '' 
We have a major problem , and that problem is volatility . '' 
The compromise proposal , ending a long impasse between Democrats and the president , would boost the minimum wage to $ 4.25 an hour by April 1991 from $ 3.35 now . 
The exchange , which abandoned such a `` collar '' last year because it did n't prevent sharp price swings , has been under attack recently for not taking action against program trading . 
The Dow Jones industrials finished up 41.60 , at 2645.08 . 
Health-insurance costs soared . 
The company is trying to fend off a hostile bid by two European shipping firms . 
The market 's tempo was helped by the dollar 's resiliency , he said . 
British sterling eased to $ 1.5775 from $ 1.5825 . 
The contraction was twice as large as economists projected and was the sharpest decline since a 19 % drop in January 1982 . 
The association said its October index of economic activity rose to 51.6 % after having been below 50 % for three consecutive months . 
The benchmark 30-year bond was nearly 1\/4 point higher , or up about $ 2.50 for each $ 1,000 face amount . 
New two-year notes ended unchanged while three-year and four-year notes were slightly lower . 
Municipal bonds ended unchanged to as much as 1\/2 point higher while mortgage-backed securities were up about 1\/8 point . 
Corporate bonds were unchanged . 
Some analysts believe the company has the ability to pinpoint the trough in interest-rate cycles . 
The company has $ 1 billion in debt filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission . 
`` I think as the pricing time arrives , the bonds will come a little richer and in a larger amount . '' 
The latest 10-year notes were unchanged at 100 16\/32 to yield 7.904 % . 
The discount rate on three-month Treasury bills rose slightly from the average rate at Monday 's auction to 7.79 % for a bond-equivalent yield of 8.04 % . The discount rate on six-month Treasury bills fell slightly to 7.60 % for a bond-equivalent yield of 7.99 % . 
The discount rate on six-month Treasury bills fell slightly to 7.60 % for a bond-equivalent yield of 7.99 % . 
Fannie Mae 's 9 % issue was at 98 7\/32 , up 1\/8 . 
Some accounts came in for some blocks in the secondary -LCB- market -RCB- , which we have n't seen for a while , '' said one trader . 
There 's light at the end of the tunnel for municipals , '' he said , adding that he expects prices to `` inch up '' in the near term . 
The issue 's smooth absorption eased fears that supply would overwhelm demand in coming sessions , traders said . 
Demand for the bonds was strong enough to permit underwriters to trim some yields in the tax-exempt portion of the offering late Monday . 
On Oct. 5 , the Bundesbank raised the Lombard and discount rates by one percentage point to 8 % and 6 % , respectively , the highest levels in seven years . 
Japanese government bonds showed little change . 
Britain 's benchmark 11 3\/4 % bond due 2003\/2007 rose 2\/32 to 111 1\/2 to yield 10.14 % while the 11 3\/4 % notes due 1991 were unchanged at 98 21\/32 to yield 12.95 % . 
GASB rules still apply for other government units . 
An Avery spokesman said that the loss was magnified by accounting adjustments and that the company 's loss was smaller on a cash basis . 
On a fully diluted basis , the two raised their stake to 68 % from 51 % . 
In the August proxy material , Avery said that unless it sold Uniroyal , its ability to service debt would be hurt and Avery 's shareholder value would `` continue to erode . '' 
Until Avery makes an acquisition , Messrs. Peltz and May will waive their direct salaries and bonuses , the company said . 
Fujitsu itself , which said the bid had n't been approved by its headquarters , was clearly embarrassed . 
The bid was n't `` socially acceptable , '' a company spokeswoman said . 
They said they wanted to wait for the outcome of any government investigation before deciding what to do . 
Mr. Lewis said the company marked price tags and advertised at its `` lowest possible prices '' for all its merchandise to reduce public confusion . 
On Friday , when only a dozen common stocks hit 52-week highs on the New York Stock Exchange , five were gold-mining issues , and another four were utilities . 
On Monday , when a mere seven common stocks managed new highs , six were utilities or golds . 
After all , gold prices usually soar when inflation is high . 
It 's as if investors , the past few days , are betting that something is going to go wrong -- even if they do n't know what . 
`` The primary overriding thing is that people are frightened , '' says Martin Sass , a New York money manager . 
`` The aftershocks of Oct. 13 -LRB- when the Dow Jones Industrial Average dropped 190 points -RRB- are still reverberating . '' 
Beyond that , money managers and analysts see other problems . 
Inventories are creeping up ; car inventories are already high , and big auto makers are idling plants . Takeover fever has cooled , removing a major horse from the market 's cart . 
; car inventories are already high , and big auto makers are idling plants . 
Takeover fever has cooled , removing a major horse from the market 's cart . 
`` The gyrations in the British government '' add political uncertainty on top of high inflation and a ragged stock market , says John Hoffman , assistant director of research at Smith Barney , Harris Upham & Co . 
`` One of the three major markets in the world is getting chewed up pretty bad . '' 
: Even in recessions , people continue to use electric power , water and gas at a fairly steady rate . 
Mr. Wachtel points to Coca-Cola Co. and PepsiCo Inc. as examples : They 're selling for 18 to 22 times estimated 1990 per-share earnings . 
: They 're selling for 18 to 22 times estimated 1990 per-share earnings . 
Even utility stocks are n't all that inexpensive , at an average of 14 times earnings . 
If gold stocks and utilities continue to lead , it may signal that the market is in for rough times . 
`` We are going to explode lower , '' says the flamboyant market seer , who had a huge following a few years back . 
`` Anyone telling you to buy stocks in this market is technically irresponsible . 
You do n't want to own anything long except gold stocks . '' 
Last Friday , 96 stocks on the Big Board hit new 12-month lows . 
`` I think we could very well have -LCB- an economic -RCB- slowdown , beginning very soon if not already , '' he says . 
He favors FPL Group Inc. , Florida Progress Corp. , TECO Energy Inc. , Wisconsin Energy Corp. , and Dominion Resources Inc . 
You go into them because they move counter to the general market . '' 
He adds that gold stocks had been down so long they were `` ready for a bounce . '' 
In addition to having high price-earnings ratios , most pay puny dividends , if any . 
`` The earning power -LCB- of gold mining companies -RCB- is restricted unless the gold price hops up over $ 425 an ounce , '' he says . 
`` My outlook is for a decline of about 10 % in corporate profits '' in 1990 , she says . 
Among utilities , Drexel currently favors Entergy Corp. and General Public Utilities Corp . 
To suggest that a 10 % drop in ozone by the middle of the next century would be negligible is irresponsible and shortsighted . 
Consider the fact that a mere 2 % drop in ozone would increase birth defects and mutations by allowing solar radiation to alter the DNA structure . 
Even a small reduction is unacceptable and to suggest otherwise is penny-wise and pound-foolish . 
Crises larger and more dangerous to the quality of life than they were 10 years ago . 
If you are doubtful , consider for a moment that the Pomton Lakes Reservoirs in northern New Jersey , which supply the tristate area with drinking water , are riddled with toxic PCBs . 
This is a fact and not the product of some environmental doomsayer or a group 's ploy to create a market . 
As an employee of a major refrigerator and freezer manufacturer , I have been heavily involved in dealing with the political manifestations of the Rowland-Molina theory -LRB- named after the researchers who found in 1974 that chlorofluorocarbons contributed to the depletion of ozone in the earth 's atmosphere -RRB- and the Montreal Protocol . 
I understand , but have n't yet verified , that there are studies by Norwegians , Russians and the Max Planck Institute that show either unchanging or declining UV-B at the surface . 
My questions on this subject at a recent meeting at the World Resources Institute with representatives of the National Resource Development Commission , the Environmental Protection Agency , Friends of the Earth , etc. were greeted with derision and some mumbled comments about that report being discredited . 
When I expressed amazement that no one was undertaking a more current and credible UV-B study , I was urged to get back to the agenda topic , which was , ironically , a schedule for getting rid of HCFCs , the so-called soft CFCs that are such an important part of the CFC substitution scenario . 
To my knowledge , no government entities , including the EPA , are pursuing UV-B measurements . 
The topic never comes up in ozonedepletion `` establishment '' meetings , of which I have attended many . 
While recognizing that professional environmentalists may feel threatened , I intend to urge that UV-B be monitored whenever I can . 
The discovery of the ozone `` hole '' over Antarctica and the results of ground-based and high-altitude aircraft experiments conducted over the past several years serve as evidence that ozone depletion is related to CFC concentrations . 
Mr. Melloan quotes Peter Teagan and invokes the name of Arthur D. Little Inc. to support his statement . 
He is a mechanical engineer , not an atmospheric chemist . 
Mr. Rifenburgh said such statements should be ready by the end of November . 
He said he expects the company to have $ 500 million in sales for this year . 
He did n't say what the company expected to report for year-earlier sales , which will be restated from the previously reported $ 603 million . 
Although it is not the first company to produce the thinner drives , which store information in personal computers , MiniScribe says it is the first with an 80-megabyte drive ; the company plans to introduce a 120-megabyte drive next year . 
; the company plans to introduce a 120-megabyte drive next year . 
`` It 's a wait-and-see attitude , '' said Dave Vellante , vice president of storage research for International Data Corp . 
Others pointed out that at least four other disk-drive makers will have competitive one-inch drives early next year and that the industry already operates on very thin margins . 
The company continues to trade in the over-the-counter market with an exception to listing requirements . 
MiniScribe filed a status report with the NASD on Monday , detailing its efforts to comply with listing requirements and requesting an extension of the exception , but has n't received a response . 
He added that he expects to make a recommendation within a few weeks on whether MiniScribe should file its own lawsuits against former company officers and directors . 
An imaginative producer could easily have created a fast-moving and interesting piece about how Congress really works -- and why voters in , say , West Virginia got a federally funded university project and building while voters in Arkansas did not . 
Traditional standards of relevancy and importance -LRB- `` is this something the public ought to know '' -RRB- will be replaced by a much broader test -LRB- `` is this something the public is interested in knowing '' -RRB- . 
One consequence of the trend toward tabloid standards of taste will be fierce attacks from politicians who will find sufficient evidence of abuse to arouse an already cynical public to control the press . 
The Fed 's action increases the volume of publicly registered securities that banks ' securities affiliates will be able to underwrite . 
Securities firms have challenged those Fed approvals , saying they violate federal laws separating the banking and securities businesses . 
When they return to their desks at 1 p.m. , they have pedaled 20 miles . 
One large competitor after another is leaping into the booming market Specialized helped create , turning out mountain bikes with such well-known names as Schwinn , Peugeot , Raleigh and Nishiki . 
Accomplishing both will be a balancing act as challenging as riding a unicycle . 
`` What I hope to bring to this is another word : process . 
It 's Mike 's challenge as well . '' 
`` We had a lot of problems , '' Mr. Sinyard says . 
While the company 's sales were soaring , `` We still had a system that was probably appropriate for $ 10 million to $ 20 million in sales . '' 
Adds Mr. Eidsmo , `` What felt good that day was done that day . '' 
`` We 're finally getting -- and it 's been very painful -- some understanding of what the company 's long-term horizon should begin to look like , '' Mr. Eidsmo says . 
`` You do n't want to lose the magic '' of the company 's creative drive . 
At a recent trade show , convention-goers lined up to view a new Specialized bike frame that weighs just 2.7 pounds -- a pound less than the lightest mountain-bike frame on the market . 
By replacing the frame 's steel lugs with titanium ones , Mr. Sinyard 's company plans to make its next generation of frames even lighter . 
He was able to slash the price of the company 's least expensive mountain bike to $ 279 from $ 750 in 
Competition is intensifying as larger companies invade a mountain-bike market Mr. Sinyard 's company once had virtually all to itself . 
U.S. Cycling Federation official Philip Milburn says mountain biking is `` growing at such a monstrous rate that a lot of companies are getting into this . '' 
Accessories not only sell faster than whole bikes , they also offer profit margins nearly double the 25 % to 30 % or so on sales of complete cycles . 
To get a piece of the business , Nike Inc. , Beaverton , Ore. , introduced a line of mountain-bike shoes . 
About a month ago , Michelin Tire Corp. , Greenville , S.C. , began selling mountain-bike tires , for years a Specialized stronghold . 
Trek Bicycle Corp. , which accounts for one-quarter of the $ 400 million in annual sales at its Milwaukee-based parent , Intrepid Corp. , entered the mountain-bike business in 1983 . 
Schwinn Bicycle Co. , Chicago , established joint ventures with bike companies in mainland China and Hungary to sell bikes . 
In the past year , Derby International Corp. , Luxembourg , has acquired such major brands as Peugeot , Raleigh and Nishiki . 
The move will cut out the cost of a middleman and give Specialized more control over marketing and sales . 
Michael Ruettgers , who had been executive vice president , operations , was named president and chief operating officer . 
We 'll raise it through -LCB- new -RCB- equity . 
He said he believes the bank loan , to be arranged by February , will supply about half of the financing . 
Continued uncertainty about the timing of the consortium 's debut could make it hard to find a # 450 million cash injection . 
The rivals currently are locked in a costly bidding contest for Hollywood film rights . 
The index settled off the high of 2117.1 posted after Wall Street opened stronger . 
Volume was only 256.6 million shares , breaking the previous 1989 low of 276.8 million shares recorded Oct. 23 . 
Dealers said fresh buying was drawn into Jaguar after a senior executive of Daimler-Benz , the auto maker , told a British television interviewer during the weekend that the West German company held talks with the luxury auto maker over possible joint ventures . 
Although Daimler has said it is n't interested in mounting a bid for Jaguar , dealers said its name further underlined the growing interest in the British concern . 
Total turnover in Glaxo was a thin 975,000 shares . 
Declining issues outnumbered advancers 551 to 349 ; 224 issues were unchanged . 
; 224 issues were unchanged . 
Investors , who took profits Friday , mostly took a wait-and-see attitude Monday amid uncertainty in the foreign-currency market and New York stocks , traders said . 
Some traders said institutions were waiting to see the U.S. jobless rate to be issued Friday . 
The Second Section index , which fell 36.87 points Friday , was down 21.44 points , or 0.59 % , to close at 3636.06 . 
Second Section volume was estimated at 15 million shares , down from 24.5 million shares Friday . 
Tokyu Group announced during the weekend that each Group company will buy the others ' stocks to defend themselves against a rumored takeover . 
The announcement fueled speculation for future advances in the shares . 
Tokyu Department Store advanced 260 to 2410 . 
Tokyu Corp. was up 150 at 2890 . 
Tokyu Construction gained 170 to 1610 . 
The DAX index closed at 1466.29 , up only 3.36 . 
Most expect the decline in New York stock prices to continue this week . 
Courtaulds ' shares rose 15 pence to 362 pence , valuing the entire company at about # 1.44 billion . 
Courtaulds ' restructuring is among the largest thus far in Britain , though it is dwarfed by B.A.T Industries PLC 's plans to spin off roughly # 4 billion in assets to help fend off a takeover bid from Anglo-French financier Sir James Goldsmith . 
The divested Courtaulds textile operations had operating profit of # 50 million on # 980 million in revenue in the year ended March 31 . 
Though Mr. Packer has since sold his stake , Courtaulds is moving to keep its institutional shareholders happy . 
Even without a specific takeover threat , Courtaulds is giving shareholders `` choice and value , '' said Julia Blake , an analyst at London stockbrokers Barclays de Zoete Wedd . 
The sharper definition and the autonomy which each will thereby gain will benefit shareholders , customers and employees . '' 
The Japanese concern has a 40 % stake , while the local partner has a 60 % stake . 
He said some investors were reluctant to plunge into the market ahead of several key economic indicators due this week , especially Friday 's potentially market-moving employment report . 
Tomorrow , the October purchasing managers report is due and on Thursday comes October chain-store sales . 
Although the Treasury will announce details of the November refunding tomorrow , it could be delayed if Congress and President Bush fail to increase the Treasury 's borrowing capacity . 
Mortgage-backed securities were up less than 1\/8 point and investment-grade corporate bonds were unchanged . 
Traders said most municipal bonds ended 1\/2 point higher . 
The $ 56 million of New York 's taxable general obligation bonds were priced to yield between 9.125 % to 9.90 % . 
The yield on the benchmark 30-year Treasury bond ended yesterday at about 7.92 % . 
Bond dealers said the rates for the long-term tax-exempt New York City bonds were among the highest , as a percentage of Treasury rates , for any New York City issue in recent memory . 
The latest 10-year notes ended at about 100 16\/32 to yield 7.90 % , compared with 100 11\/32 to yield 7.93 % on Friday . 
The average discount rate on three-month bills was 7.78 % and the rate on six-month bills was 7.62 % . 
Those rates are up from 7.52 % and 7.50 % , respectively , at last week 's auction . 
Although the notes held at a price of 92 to 93 immediately after the reset , they started falling soon afterward . 
The company 's 7.90 % sinking fund debentures were quoted at a bid price of 14 1\/4 and an offered price of 30 , while the 10 3\/4 % subordinated debentures of 1997 were being bid for at 28 and offered at around 34 3\/4 . The 10 3\/4 % debentures last traded at 35 . 
The 10 3\/4 % debentures last traded at 35 . 
Freddie Mac 's 9 % issue ended at 97 19\/32 , up 2\/32 . 
This could mean diminished issuance of derivative mortgage issues during the next few weeks . 
Last week , a unit of MNC Financial Corp. offered $ 268 million of home-equity securities . 
The benchmark 11 3\/4 % bond due 2003\/2007 rose 10\/32 to 111 14\/32 to yield 10.14 % , while the Treasury 's 12 % notes due 1995 rose 7\/32 to 103 5\/8 to yield 11.04 % . 
The 7 % Treasury bond due October 1999 ended off 0.60 point to 99.35 to yield 7.09 % , while the 6 3\/4 % notes due 1994 fell 0.35 point to 97.25 to yield 7.45 % . 
Japan 's No. 111 4.6 % bond due 1998 ended the day on brokers screens at 95.11 to yield 5.43 % . 
He explained , in part , that restructuring to prepare for the Common Market expansion due in 1992 `` has become more of a strategic priority , both for companies inside and outside the European Community . '' 
That compared with 49 such transactions totaling $ 28.7 billion as year earlier . 
He added that until now the Japanese have only acquired equity positions in U.S. biotechnology companies . 
`` They are piggybacking onto developed technology , '' he said . 
During the past five years , Japanese concerns have invested in several of the U.S. 's 431 independent biotechnology companies . 
Chugai has been one of the most active Japanese players in U.S. biotechnology companies ; it has an equity investment in Genetics Institute Inc. , Cambridge , Mass. , and a joint-venture agreement with Upjohn Co. , Kalamazoo , Mich . 
; it has an equity investment in Genetics Institute Inc. , Cambridge , Mass. , and a joint-venture agreement with Upjohn Co. , Kalamazoo , Mich . 
`` It is becoming more of a horse race every day between the U.S. and Japan , '' he said , adding that some fear that as with the semiconductor , electronics , and automobile industries , Japanese companies will use U.S.-developed technology to gain trade advantages . 
He and Mr. Bologna emphasized that both companies would gain technological knowledge through the sale of Gen-Probe , which will expand `` significantly '' as a result of the acquisition . 
GenProbe had a net loss of $ 9.5 million on revenue of $ 5.8 million . 
Recently , Gen-Probe received a broad U.S. patent for a technology that helps detect , identify and quantify non-viral organisms through the targeting of a form of genetic material called ribosomal RNA . 
The Soviets have a world-leading space program , the guests noted . Would n't the Japanese like a piece of it ? 
Would n't the Japanese like a piece of it ? 
`` Shocked . '' 
`` We have obtained through the development of Cosmos -LCB- the Soviet space program -RCB- technologies you do n't see anywhere else . '' 
Japan-U.S. trade relations are bumpy these days , and some Japanese favor decreasing their reliance on U.S. technology in light of the FSX fighter-plane flap , when U.S. officials reversed an earlier decision and refused to share certain crucial fighter-plane technology . 
It 's a world leader in semiconductors , but behind the U.S. in making the computers that use those chips . 
It 's a world leader in auto manufacturing , but its aviation industry is struggling , and its space program is years behind the U.S. , the Europeans and the Soviets . 
Many plants that used to make military equipment are now being ordered to produce televisions , videocassette recorders , small tractors and food-processing machinery . 
Kobe Steel Ltd. adopted Soviet casting technology in 1966 and used it for 14 years until it developed its own system . 
Kawasaki Steel Corp. bought a Soviet steel-casting patent two years ago and has jointly developed the system with the Soviets . 
In 1991 , the Soviets will take a Japanese journalist into space , the first Japanese to go into orbit . 
`` We have never opposed the development of economic relations between our allies and the Soviet Union , '' says a State Department official . 
`` Frankly , I would n't expect the Japanese to get hooked on anybody 's technology , least of all the Soviets . '' 
They believe technology is one of their best bets , and some Soviet officials say Moscow will even consider declassifying military know-how if the price is right . 
The Soviets held export exhibitions that included high-tech items in New York and West Germany . 
Last week , a Soviet delegation came to Japan to push more space technologies . 
Out of the blue , the Soviet Chamber of Commerce handed over details on 59 technologies that the Japanese might want to buy . 
These mainly involved such areas as materials -- advanced soldering machines , for example -- and medical developments derived from experimentation in space , such as artificial blood vessels . 
`` The Soviet Union has a lot of know-how , but it has been difficult to put that into actual production because of various structural problems in the economy , '' says Mr. Shapovalov , the Foreign Ministry official . 
The Soviets are `` contemplating a flexible system under which it would be possible to develop -LCB- technology -RCB- jointly and even to market it jointly , '' he says . 
Still stinging from the international backlash over the sale two years ago of sensitive military technology to the Soviets by a subsidiary of Japan 's Toshiba Corp. , many Japanese are eager to avoid appearing to help the Soviets in any way . 
Another hurdle concerns Japan 's attempts to persuade the Soviet Union to relinquish its post-World War II control of four islands north of Japan . 
`` My impression is that there is n't anything which arouses our interest at first glance , '' says an official from Japan 's Ministry of International Trade and Industry . 
Despite warnings from such leaders as former Federal Reserve Board Chairman William McChesney Martin that unfixed commissions would undo the industry , the SEC in September 1973 said full competition must start May l , 1975 . 
Institutions had become active market players in the early 1970s and sought exchange seats to handle their own trades . 
Ray Garrett Jr. , SEC chairman , said the `` breadth and depth of the discounting is more than I expected . '' 
Even a federal measure in June allowing houses to add research fees to their commissions did n't stop it . 
The change prompted the rise of discount brokers and a reduction in securities research firms . 
It came in London 's `` Big Bang '' 1986 deregulation ; and Toronto 's `` Little Bang '' the same year . 
Paris is currently phasing out fixed commissions under its `` Le Petit Bang '' plan . 
The mission will visit Poland from Nov. 29 to Dec. 2 , the White House said . 
Among other things , they said , Mr. Azoff would develop musical acts for a new record label . 
Although Mr. Azoff wo n't produce films at first , it is possible that he could do so later , the sources said . 
Mr. Azoff reportedly was bored and frequently clashed with top MCA management over a number of issues such as compensation and business plans . 
In an interview at the time of his resignation from MCA , he said : `` I 'd rather build a company than run one . 
`` I ate a bad tuna sandwich , got food poisoning and had to have a shot in my shoulder , '' he says , making it too painful to row . 
A San Francisco lawyer , Mr. Panelli rowed religiously when he first got the machine , but , he complains , it left grease marks on his carpet , `` and it was boring . 
It 's a horrible machine , actually . 
I 'm ashamed I own the stupid thing . '' 
Nearly three-fourths of the people who own home exercise equipment do n't use it as much as they planned , according to The Wall Street Journal 's `` American Way of Buying '' survey . 
The Roper Organization , which conducted the survey , said almost half of the exercise equipment owners found it duller than they expected . 
The fitness craze itself has gone soft , the survey found . 
Fewer people said they were working up a sweat with such activities as jogging , tennis , swimming and aerobics . Half of those surveyed said they simply walk these days for exercise . 
Half of those surveyed said they simply walk these days for exercise . 
`` The first excuse is they do n't have enough time , '' says research director Thomas Doyle . `` The second is they do n't have enough discipline . '' 
`` The second is they do n't have enough discipline . '' 
Mr. Doyle predicts a trend toward fewer pieces of home exercise equipment being sold at higher prices . 
Electronic gimmicks are key . 
She 's trying to sell a $ 150 exercise bike she bought about five years ago for her roommate . 
: Ms. Igdaloff just paid about $ 900 for a fancier stationary bike , with a timer , dials showing average and maximum speeds and a comfortable seat that feels almost like a chair . 
`` I spent so much money that if I look at it , and I 'm not on it , I feel guilty . '' 
A surprising 78 % of people said they exercise regularly , up from 73 % in 1981 . 
This conjures up images of a nation full of trim , muscular folks , and suggests couch potatoes are out of season . 
Of course , that is n't really the case . 
They 're bound to exaggerate . 
`` It 's hard to know if people are responding truthfully . 
People are too embarrassed to say they have n't done anything . '' 
So many people fudge on answers about exercise , the president 's council now uses specific criteria to determine what is considered vigorous : It must produce contractions of large muscle groups , must achieve 60 % of maximum aerobic capacity and must be done three or more times a week for a minimum of 20 minutes . 
: It must produce contractions of large muscle groups , must achieve 60 % of maximum aerobic capacity and must be done three or more times a week for a minimum of 20 minutes . 
That target has been revised to 30 % by the year 2000 . 
Of 14 activities , the Journal survey found that 12 -- including bicycling , skiing and swimming -- are being done by fewer Americans today than eight years ago . 
Time pressures and the ebb of the fitness fad are cited as reasons for the decline . 
Jeanette Traverso , a California lawyer , gave up running three times a week to play a weekly round of golf , finding it more social and serene . 
It 's an activity she feels she can do for life , and by pulling a golf cart , she still gets a good workout . 
`` I 'm really wiped out after walking five hours , '' she says . 
`` If you sit down all the time , you 'll go stiff , '' says Joyce Hagood , a Roxboro , N.C. , homemaker who walks several miles a week . 
Sometimes , if you have a headache , you can go out and walk it right off . '' 
Slightly more , like Leslie Sherren , a law librarian in San Francisco who attends dance aerobics five times a week , exercise to relieve stress . 
`` Working with lawyers , '' she says , `` I need it . '' 
`` They 're too crowded , and everybody 's showing off , '' says Joel Bryant , a 22-year-old student from Pasadena , Calif . 
`` The guys are being macho , and the girls are walking around in little things . 
They 're not there to work out . '' 
Nearly half of those who joined health clubs said they did n't use their membership as often as they planned . 
Feeling they should devote more time to their families or their jobs , many yuppies are skipping their once-sacred workout . 
The proprietor of Sante West , an aerobics studio in San Francisco 's Marina district , which was hit hard by the earthquake , says , `` People were going nuts the minute we opened , '' three days after the quake . 
`` The emotional aspect is so draining , they needed a good workout . '' 
The survey reported the number of people who said they bowl regularly has fallen to just 8 % from 17 % in 1981 . 
The American Bowling Congress claims a higher percentage of the public bowls regularly , but concedes its membership has declined this decade . 
Three reasons were pinpointed : a preference for watching bowling and other sports on television rather than actually bowling , dowdy bowling centers , and dissatisfaction with bowling itself . 
People who start bowling expecting it to be a pleasurable exercise `` have been generally disappointed , '' the report said . 
`` I ca n't do anything score-wise , but I like meeting the girls . '' 
He says bowling helps him shed pounds , though that effort is sometimes thwarted by the fact that `` when I 'm drinking , I bowl better . '' 
Unlike most of the other retailers mentioned in the story , Jos. A. Bank Clothiers Inc. is not in serious financial problems . 
We did experience some difficulties with the initial LBO terms and , as your article made clear , successfully restructured our debt earlier this year , something those other retailers have yet to accomplish . 
They claim to have busted spirits , poltergeists and other spooks in hundreds of houses around the country . 
They say they now get three or four `` legitimate '' calls a week from people harried by haunts . 
`` All you have to do is eat a big pizza , and then go to bed , '' he says . 
`` You 'll have weird dreams , too . '' 
Tales of haunts and horrors are proliferating beyond the nation 's Elm Streets and Amityvilles . 
`` I get calls nearly every day from people who have ghosts in their house , '' says Raymond Hyman , a skeptical psychology professor at the University of Oregon . 
`` The movies , the books , the tabloids -- even Nancy Reagan is boosting this stuff , '' says Paul Kurtz , a philosophy professor at the State University of New York at Buffalo , who heads the Committee for the Scientific Investigation of the Paranormal . 
They do n't even give a nod to human sensibilities by celebrating Halloween . 
For the spooks it 's just another day of ectoplasmic business as usual , ghostbusters say ; the holiday seems to occasion no unusual number of ghost reports . 
, ghostbusters say ; the holiday seems to occasion no unusual number of ghost reports . 
Mr. Baker drives a 1987 Chevy and usually wears a tweed jacket on his ghostbusting forays . 
Mr. Baker found an opening under the house that led to a fume-filled coal mine . 
`` People see activity in there , and the next thing you know , you 've got a haunting , '' he says . 
Mrs. Stinnett says she never believed in ghosts before , but lately her vacuum cleaner turned itself on , a telephone flew off its stand , doors slammed inexplicably , and she heard footsteps in her empty kitchen . 
The ghostly footsteps : `` Interstate 64 is a block away , and heavy traffic can sure set a house to vibrating . '' Of the self-starting vacuum cleaner , he says : `` Could be Cuddles , -LCB- Mrs. Stinnett 's dog -RCB- . '' The flying telephone : `` You tangle the base cord around a chair leg , and the receiver does seem to fly off . '' 
The flying telephone : `` You tangle the base cord around a chair leg , and the receiver does seem to fly off . '' 
The ghostly footsteps : `` Interstate 64 is a block away , and heavy traffic can sure set a house to vibrating . '' 
`` There are some things that have gone on here that nobody can explain , '' she says . 
`` I sprinkle a little around and tell the demons to leave . 
`` Invariably , '' he says , `` eyewitnesses are untrustworthy . '' 
To viewers from a distance , visitors to the spot seemed to shrink disproportionately , relative to the background . 
`` A very striking illusion , '' Mr. Hyman says now , his voice dripping with skepticism , `` but an illusion nevertheless . '' 
The Canadian wound up writing a check . 
`` On certain occasions a spirit could be earthbound and make itself known , '' he says . 
`` It happens . '' 
`` The suggestion itself may do the healing . '' 
To wrestle with a demon in a house owned by a Litchfield , Conn. , woman , the Warrens recently called in an exorcist , the Rev. Robert McKenna , a dissident clergyman who hews to the Catholic Church 's old Latin liturgy . 
A Scottish dwarf built the small red house 110 years ago and now his demonic ghost haunts it , Mr. Warren says . 
The owner , who begs anonymity , asserts that the dwarf , appearing as a dark shadow , has manhandled her , tossing her around the living room and yanking out a hank of hair . 
Two previous exorcisms have failed . 
Suddenly the woman begins swaying and then writhing . 
`` She 's being attacked by the demon , '' Mrs. Warren stagewhispers as the priest sprinkles holy water over the squirming woman , and the television camera grinds . 
A half-hour later , the woman is smiling and chatting ; the demon seems to have gone . 
; the demon seems to have gone . 
She declines to show them . 
Another major firm has cut 6,000 workers , 13 % of its staff , since Black Monday . 
The Bureau of Labor Statistics says securities firms in New York City alone have slashed 17,000 jobs from the December 1987 peak of 163,000 . 
But then it was acquired by Household International Inc . Now it offers richer commissions to lure a broker a week . Illinois Company Investments had been trimming its ranks until last summer . 
Interstate\/Johnson Lane Inc. this year adds 70 people -- 60 of them in retail -- to its 1,300-member staff . 
A.G. Edwards & Sons runs training classes and looks for experienced brokers . 
Ironically , `` up until the quake , we desperately tried to fill jobs , '' especially for crane and bulldozer operators . 
In recent months , California 's Transportation Department has been recruiting in Pennsylvania , Arizona and Texas for engineers experienced in road and bridge design . 
He says the department now has 75 openings and wants to hire 625 civil engineers over the next 15 months . 
In an advisory letter , the department said that , starting Oct. 18 , loans could be limited to `` parties in interest , '' which generally means active workers but also includes retirees who continue as directors and 10 % shareholders . 
The IRS says the question wo n't be settled until the regulations are issued `` shortly . '' 
`` It 's a severe case of regulatory whiplash , '' complains Henry Saveth of consultant A. Foster Higgins & Co . 
Outplacement consultant Right Associates says the average pay of its clients fell to $ 66,743 last year from $ 70,765 in 1987 ; severance pay dropped to 25 weeks from 29 . 
; severance pay dropped to 25 weeks from 29 . 
Both reflect the dismissal of lower-level and shorter-tenure executives . 
Employees like the option but firms say it 's too tough to run . 
Some even study . 
Working students , she explains , want `` some satisfaction . '' 
University of Michigan students look for jobs related to planned careers . 
: `` They 're opting to build their resumes through good grades and leadership roles in fraternities . '' 
Student job postings at Boston University slip 10 % this year following a 10 % drop in 1988 . 
On Nov. 15 , when Brazilians elect a president for the first time in 29 years , the country 's 82 million voters will have 22 candidates to choose from . 
A half-dozen candidates , backing policies ranging from Thatcherism to watered-down Marxism , are given a chance of winning . 
`` Whoever says he knows which of the six will win is out of his mind , '' says Antonio Britto , a centrist member of Parliament . 
The dollar , the best indicator of the country 's mood , has skyrocketed on the parallel market , as has gold . 
Capital flight is reported to be strong . 
President Jose Sarney , who took office in 1985 when the man picked by an electoral college became critically ill , appears to be simply trying to avoid hyperinflation . 
About $ 70 billion is estimated to be tied up in the short-term money market , which acts both as a hedge against inflation for consumers and an accelerator of inflation and deficits for the government . 
Among the results is a frequent breakdown of public services . 
It 's not uncommon to wait three minutes for a dial tone after picking up the telephone , and then to be interrupted by a busy signal before finishing dialing the number . 
The 67-year-old Mr. Brizola has been vague about his intentions and often inflammatory in his rhetoric , but analysts say he probably would be pragmatic . 
When a hospital in Lexington installed a lithotripter last year , demand for a similar kidney-stone smashing machine at a Humana hospital in Louisville fell 34 % . The Humana hospital responded by jacking up prices to make up for lost revenue , Mr. Conn says , and now charges as much as $ 8,000 for the procedure , which costs only about $ 3,500 in Lexington . 
The Humana hospital responded by jacking up prices to make up for lost revenue , Mr. Conn says , and now charges as much as $ 8,000 for the procedure , which costs only about $ 3,500 in Lexington . 
Humana , which wants to acquire one of the new machines itself , is on the record as opposed to the proposal . 
: More than half of 300 residents responding to recent survey said they 'd prefer a guaranteed salary over traditional fee-for-service compensation in their first professional position . 
`` They wo n't do that very often today at all . 
They 're looking for something that 's very safe . '' 
That 's 115 % more than in 1981 . 
It reflects values of a generation that wants more time for families and personal interests , says John H. Moxley III , who directs physician-executive searches for Korn\/Ferry International . 
`` This is a change in the social fabric of medicine , '' he says . 
`` The philosophy is to make the patient and the family very responsible for a portion of their own care , '' says Anthony J. Grieco , medical director of cooperative care at New York University Medical Center , where the concept began 10 years ago . 
`` It helps us , and them , while they 're here , and it certainly makes them a better health-care team when they get home . '' 
Because patients require less attention from nurses and other staff , room charges are lower -- about $ 100 less per day than a regular room at the Vermont hospital . 
`` It 's really part of the hospital of the 21st century , '' Dr. Grieco says . 
; a head nurse typically oversees up to 80 employees and $ 8 million . 
The company has said the paper is n't for sale , and has rebuffed Mr. McMaster 's earlier requests for access to Free Press financial statements . 
Holders of NRM 's $ 2 cumulative convertible acquisition preferred units will receive one new common share in Edisto for every 1.342 units they own . 
As part of the transaction , Edisto agreed to give Mesa , an Amarillo , Texas , oil and gas partnership managed by T. Boone Pickens Jr. , a seat on its board . 
The companies reached an agreement in principle for the sale in August . 
The sales recovery screeched to a halt this month , some analysts say . 
`` Now everything '' -- such as program trading and wide stock market swings -- `` that everyone had pushed back in their consciousness is just sitting right there . '' 
October 's numbers , which wo n't be released for a month , are down further , mutual fund executives say . 
Most of the those who left stock funds simply switched into money market funds . 
The recent outcry over program trading will cast a pall over the stock-fund environment in the coming months , some analysts say . 
Net sales of bond funds for the month totaled $ 1.1 billion , down two-thirds from $ 3.1 billion in August . 
The major reason : heavy outflows from high-risk , high-yield junk bond funds . 
Big withdrawals from the junk funds have continued this month . 
Assets of these and other short-term funds surged more than $ 5 billion in September , the institute said . 
Analysts say additional investors transferred their assets into money funds this month . 
In October , net sales of stock funds at Fidelity dropped sharply , Mr. Hines said . 
He notes that most of the net sales drop stemmed from a three-day period following the Friday the 13th plunge . 
Buoyed by the continued inflows into money funds , assets of all mutual funds swelled to a record $ 953.8 billion in September , up fractionally from $ 949.3 billion in August . 
These managers held 9.8 % of assets in cash at the end of September , down from 10.2 % in August and 10.6 % in September 1988 . 
Junk-portfolio managers raised their cash position to 9.4 % of assets in September from 8.3 % in August . 
In September 1988 , that level was 9.5 % . 
Among stock funds , the conservative growth-and-income portfolios probably will remain popular , fund specialists say . 
We keep wondering what Mr. Gates wanted to say . 
Perhaps he 'd have called for `` a decentralized political and economic system '' without a dominant communist party . 
Dark hints would be raised that parts of the administration hope Mr. Gorbachev would fail , just as they were when Vice President Quayle voiced similar sentiments . 
; the quotes above are from Mr. Baker 's speech of two weeks ago . 
They all understand point one : Nothing the U.S. can do will make much difference in whether Mr. Gorbachev succeeds with perestroika . 
Perhaps Mr. Gates would emphasize more than Mr. Baker the many hurdles the Soviet leader must leap if he is going to succeed . 
They can be relieved only by changing that system , not by pouring Western money into it . 
GATT membership will not matter to Donbas coal miners short of soap , nor will a START treaty make any difference to Ukrainian nationalists . 
If a deal can be made to cut the world 's Ortegas loose from Moscow , why not ? 
We do n't expect much good from nuclear-arms control , but conventional-arms talks might demilitarize Eastern Europe . 
In any case , he 's likely to find that the more he muzzles his colleagues , the more leaks will pop up all around Washington , a lesson once learned by Henry Kissinger . 
Letting officials express their own nuances can be educational . 
We note that in Rome yesterday Defense Secretary Cheney said that European euphoria over Mr. Gorbachev is starting to be tempered by a recognition of `` the magnitude of the problems he was trying to deal with . '' 
The odds are against him , as he himself would no doubt tell you . 
Surely there is someone in the administration , maybe Bob Gates , who could explain them to college students , or even schoolchildren . 
Mr. Jordan has served as executive director of the United Negro College Fund , director of the Voter Education Project of the Southern Regional Council and attorney-consultant to the U.S. Office of Economic Opportunity . 
The killers fled with less than $ 100 . 
`` The ultimate punishment , '' he declared , `` will protect the law-abiding from the vicious , cruel individuals who commit these crimes . '' 
Most murders are state crimes , so any federal capital-punishment law probably would turn out to be more symbolism than substance . 
Senate Republicans , after repeatedly failing to attach death-penalty amendments to unrelated legislation , have finally gotten a full-blown death-penalty bill through committee . 
The Democratic leadership agreed to allow a floor vote on the issue before the end of the year -- a debate certain to focus on the alleged racial inequality of death sentencing . 
Since that 1976 ruling , 37 states have reintroduced the death penalty . 
Among these crimes are murder on federal land , presidential assassination and espionage . 
Most of the crimes incorporated in the Thurmond bill are exceedingly rare -- killing a Supreme Court justice , for instance , or deliberately causing a train wreck that results in a death . 
The last federal execution before the Supreme Court 's 1972 ruling banning the death penalty took place in 1963 , meaning that the federal government did n't exercise its execution authority for eight years . 
`` It 's distracting attention from serious issues , like how to make DEA , FBI and Customs work together '' on drug enforcement . 
`` Many scholars are of the opinion that the mere existence of the penalty deters many people from the commission of capital crimes , '' says Sen. Orrin Hatch -LRB- R. , Utah -RRB- . 
Before the bill left committee , Sen. Edward Kennedy -LRB- D. , Mass . -RRB- attached an amendment that would allow a defendant to escape from a death sentence in jurisdictions shown to have meted out executions in a racist manner . The amendment prompted an ironic protest from Mr. Thurmond , who complained that it would `` kill '' capital punishment . 
A large number of studies suggest that state judges and juries have imposed the penalty in a racially discriminatory fashion . 
It would allow all defendants to introduce statistical evidence showing racially disproportionate application of the death penalty in the past . 
`` How do you prove a negative ? '' 
Since most prosecutors would n't be able to demonstrate conclusively that racial considerations did n't affect sentencing , executions everywhere might come to a halt , Mr. Boyd explains . 
Conservatives question the validity of the studies and note that the Supreme Court ruled in 1987 that such research , regardless of its accuracy , is n't relevant to a constitutional attack on a particular death sentence . 
Lawyers would eagerly seize on the provision in their death-penalty appeals , says Richard Burr , director of the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund 's capital-punishment defense team . 
It might force Congress and the states to narrow the death penalty only to convictions shown to be relatively free of racial imbalance -- murders by repeat offenders who torture their victims , perhaps . 
He accused Dow Jones of `` using unfair means to obtain the stock at an unfair price . '' 
Dow Jones publishes The Wall Street Journal , Barron 's magazine , other periodicals and community newspapers and operates electronic business information services . 
The 120-day exclusivity period was to expire yesterday . 
Not even an earthquake . 
; the building rocked . 
For a while , it looked like the deal -- not to mention the courtroom itself -- was on the verge of collapse . 
`` I said , ` NOW ? ' 
Lights flickered on and off ; plaster dropped from the ceiling , the walls still shook and an evacuation alarm blared outside . 
; plaster dropped from the ceiling , the walls still shook and an evacuation alarm blared outside . 
The four lawyers climbed out from under a table . 
`` We were never going to get these insurance companies to agree again , '' says John V. Trump , a San Francisco defense lawyer in the case . 
The lawyers went to work anyway , duly noting that the proceeding was taking place during a major earthquake . 
`` I did n't know if it was World War III or what , '' says Melanie Carvain of Morristown , N.J . 
`` Reading the settlement into the record was the last thing on my mind . 
Even brief conversations can show caring and trust , and need not restrict the efficiency of the communication or restrain the doctor 's earnings . 
Right now , the American populace is spending about 12 % of our gross national product on health care . 
That amounts to more than $ 350 billion a year . 
With companies such as Honda Motor Co. , Toyota Motor Corp. and Nissan Motor Co. running so-called transplant auto operations , Japanese auto production in the U.S. will reach one million vehicles this year . 
The Japanese-managed plants eventually will have the capacity to build some 2.5 million vehicles in the U.S. and that will translate into `` market share that is going to have to come out of somebody , '' he added . 
It was Revco 's huge debt from its $ 1.3 billion leveraged buy-out in 1986 that forced it to seek protection under Chapter 11 of the federal Bankruptcy Code . 
The Revco bonds are high-yield , high-risk `` junk '' bonds ; holders have $ 750 million in claims against Revco , Mr. Schulte said . 
; holders have $ 750 million in claims against Revco , Mr. Schulte said . 
Its problem , they say , is that management paid too much in the leveraged buy-out and the current $ 515 million debt load is keeping Revco in the red . 
: The nation 's aging population will boost demand for prescription drugs . 
Sales were $ 597.8 million , up 2.4 % from the previous year . 
Acadia would sell up to 10 % of the equity in the reorganized company to creditors and bondholders in exchange for the cash distribution , but creditors and bondholders would receive no discount for their shares . 
We just want a plan that satisfies creditors and at the end leaves a healthy Revco . '' 
`` They want to pretend it does n't exist , '' he said . 
It 's not an effort to steal the company '' in the middle of the night . 
Declines came because of concern that demand for copper may slow down . 
The mint purchases were at premiums about 4 1\/2 cents a pound above the respective prices for the copper . At the time merchants were asking for premiums of about five cents a pound . 
At the time merchants were asking for premiums of about five cents a pound . 
Prices fell through levels regarded as important support areas , which added to the selling . 
At least one analyst noted that as production improves , the concern among traders is whether the prospective increased supply will find buyers because of uncertainty over national economies . 
Recently , Japan has been buying copper elsewhere . 
According to Fred Demler , metals economist for Drexel Burnham Lambert , New York , `` Highland Valley has already started operating and Cananea is expected to do so soon . '' 
A recent attempt to resume operations was cut short quickly by these attacks . 
Another analyst said that , if there was any concern , it was that a strike could encourage other walkouts in Chile . 
Outside the U.S. , he said , producer stocks at the end of August were 273,000 tons , down 3,000 tons from the end of July . 
The high point of foreigners ' copper stocks this year was 136,000 tons at the end of April , according to Mr. Demler . 
Buying by the Soviets has helped to prop up corn prices in recent weeks , but a lack of any new purchases kept prices in the doldrums . 
The December contract ended with a gain of 1.29 cents a pound at 74.35 cents . 
According to one analyst , prices opened higher because of reports over the weekend that Brazil and Colombia , at the Pan-American summit meeting in Costa Rica , had agreed to a reduction in their coffee export quotas for the sake of creating a new agreement . 
The reports , attributed to the Colombian minister of economic development , said Brazil would give up 500,000 bags of its quota and Colombia 200,000 bags , the analyst said . 
These reports were later denied by a high Brazilian official , who said Brazil was n't involved in any coffee discussions on quotas , the analyst said . 
The Colombian minister was said to have referred to a letter that he said President Bush sent to Colombian President Virgilio Barco , and in which President Bush said it was possible to overcome obstacles to a new agreement . 
December delivery gold eased 40 cents an ounce to $ 380.80 . 
December silver was off 3.7 cents an ounce at $ 5.2830 . 
January platinum rose 90 cents an ounce at $ 500.20 . 
Last week 's uncertainty in the stock market and a weaker dollar triggered a flight to safety , he said , but yesterday the market lacked such stimuli . 
There was some profit-taking because prices for all the precious metals had risen to levels at which there was resistance to further advance , he said . 
Their only doubt concerned the possibility that Mr. Gorbachev might not survive the opposition that his reforms would arouse and that the whole process might be reversed . 
Before becoming self-employed , or setting up a cooperative , workers must seek permission from the local soviet -LRB- council -RRB- . 
Permission is far from automatic : The soviets have the legal right to turn down applications and impose conditions , and they appear to be exercising these powers . 
: The soviets have the legal right to turn down applications and impose conditions , and they appear to be exercising these powers . 
; shoemaking is allowed in seven but illegal in nine . 
Medical cooperatives , among the most successful in the U.S.S.R. , are banned from providing general-practitioner services -LRB- their main source of income -RRB- , carrying out surgery , and treating cancer patients , drug addicts and pregnant women . 
; the second bans cooperatives from buying `` industrial and food goods '' from the state or other cooperatives . 
Mr. Gorbachev has ruled out the use of the market to solve the problem of insufficient consumer goods . 
He told the Congress of People 's Deputies on May 30 : `` We do not share this approach , since it would immediately destroy the social situation and disrupt all the processes in the country . '' 
Most important , this would leave the party intact and its monopoly of political power largely undisturbed . 
`` Communism will reach its final stage of development in a feckless Russo -- corporation-socialist in form , nationalistic in content and Oriental in style -- that will puzzle the world with alternating feats of realism and recklessness ... . '' 
This unification was to be brought about through policies and institutions that would unite workers and employers with government in a fully integrated and `` harmonic '' society . 
The key to the creation of the `` organic '' state lay in the formation of `` natural '' groups that would undertake the role of decision-making . 
In doing so , he neither rejected a socialist planned economy nor embraced the free market . 
The Soviet Communist Party has the power to shape corporate development and mold it into a body dependent upon it . 
It is the promise of economic returns that is supposed to make the corporatist model attractive to both the party and labor . 
The most important development in Mr. Gorbachev 's policy for marginalizing the opposition movement is the claim that the U.S.S.R. also suffers from terrorism . 
An increasing number of references by the Soviet press to opposition groups now active in the U.S.S.R. , particularly the Democratic Union , allege that they show `` terroristic tendencies '' and claim that they would be prepared to kill in order to achieve their aims . 
It is possible that , in perpetuating such myths , the ground is being laid for the arrest of opposition activists on the ground of terrorism . 
If he were able to construct a popular and efficient corporatist system , he or his heir would be wellplaced to rein in political opposition , and to re-establish control in Eastern Europe . 
Contrary to widespread belief , Mussolini failed to live up to his promise to make the trains run on time ; it is doubtful whether Soviet-style corporatism will make Soviet trains run on time , or fill the shops with goods that the consumers so desperately crave . 
; it is doubtful whether Soviet-style corporatism will make Soviet trains run on time , or fill the shops with goods that the consumers so desperately crave . 
The South was off 2 % after the first nine months , while the North Central region was up 3 % . 
The Northeast and West regions were unchanged . 
Housing has been weak all year and especially so in the past five months . 
Commercial and industrial construction rose sharply , partly because of three large projects , each expected to cost more than $ 100 million . 
Institutional building , such as hospitals and schools , eased in September following a surge in August . 
About $ 550 million of long-term debt is affected , according to Moody 's . 
We think that the ratings revision is unfortunate but not unexpected . 
Our commitment to manage these businesses profitably will continue . '' 
First Boston incurred millions of dollars of losses on Campeau securities it owned as well as on special securities it could n't sell . 
First Boston financings for several other highly leveraged clients , including Ohio Mattress , unraveled as the high-risk junk bond market plummeted . 
It said CS First Boston `` has consistently been one of the most aggressive firms in merchant banking '' and that `` a very significant portion '' of the firm 's profit in recent years has come from merchant banking-related business . 
`` Total merchant banking exposures are in excess of the firm 's equity . 
Shearson , Goldman , Sachs & Co. , Morgan Stanley & Co. and Salomon Inc. are discussing formation of a group to sell securities-price data . 
The company has no immediate plans to close any operations , she said , but Quotron may subcontract some work that it has been doing in-house , including refurbishment and production of Quotron 1000 equipment used in delivering financial data . 
The network had been expected to have losses of as much as $ 20 million on baseball this year . 
Had the contest gone a full seven games , ABC could have reaped an extra $ 10 million in ad sales on the seventh game alone , compared with the ad take it would have received for regular prime-time shows . 
A World Series telecast typically carries 56 30-second commercials , but by the fourth game ABC was cramming in 60 to 62 ads to generate extra revenue . 
Last year 's series , broadcast by General Electric Co. 's NBC , was the lowest-rated Series in four years ; instead of featuring a major East Coast team against a West Coast team , it pitted the Los Angeles Dodgers against the losing Oakland A's . 
; instead of featuring a major East Coast team against a West Coast team , it pitted the Los Angeles Dodgers against the losing Oakland A's . 
The Series got off to a lukewarm start Oct. 14 with a 16.2 % rating ; the next night it drew 17.4 % of homes . 
; the next night it drew 17.4 % of homes . 
Then came the earthquake and a damaging delay of 11 days . 
An analyst 's opinion to that effect even sent Capital Cities\/ABC shares soaring two weeks ago . 
The third game , last Friday night , drew a disappointing 17.5 rating . 
Bond prices continued to edge higher in anticipation of more news showing a slower economy . 
Although the dollar rose slightly against most major currencies , the focus in currency markets was on the beleaguered British pound , which gained slightly against the dollar . 
Kidder Peabody became the most recent firm to swear off stock-index arbitrage trading for its own account , and Merrill Lynch late yesterday took the major step of renouncing the trading strategy even for its clients . 
The Dow industrials shot up 23 points in the opening hour , at least in part because of buy programs generated by stock-index arbitrage , a form of program trading involving futures contracts . 
The other is Friday 's measure of October employment , an indicator of the broader economy 's health . 
Both are expected to show continued sluggishness , which would be good for bonds and bad for stocks . 
The Treasury 's benchmark 30-year bond gained about an eighth of a point , or about $ 1.25 for each $ 1,000 face amount . 
The yield on the issue slipped to 7.92 % . 
In late New York trading the dollar was quoted at 1.8340 marks and 141.90 yen , compared with 1.8300 marks and 141.65 yen Friday . 
The British pound , pressured by last week 's resignations of key Thatcher administration officials , nevertheless rose Monday to $ 1.5820 from Friday 's $ 1.5795 . 
Their factories may look like sets for a Spielberg movie , but their offices , with rows of clerks hunched over ledgers and abacuses , are more like scenes from a Dickens novel . 
Kawasaki-Rikuso , a freight company , set up its own software subsidiary this year and is spending nearly a year 's profit to more than double the computer terminals at its main office . 
In April , the Long-Term Credit Bank linked its computers in Tokyo with its three American offices . 
Combined PC and work-station use in Japan will jump as much as 25 % annually over the next five years , according to some analysts , compared with about 10 % in the U.S. . 
`` We have too many people in our home offices , '' says Yoshio Hatakeyama , the president of the Japan Management Association . 
`` Productivity in Japanese offices is relatively low . '' 
; Americans are well poised to supply the weapons . 
Japan may be a tough market for outsiders to penetrate , and the U.S. is hopelessly behind Japan in certain technologies . 
Apple Computer Inc. has doubled its staff here over the past year . 
Lotus Development Corp. has slashed the lag between U.S. and Japan product introductions to six months from three years . 
Ungermann-Bass Inc. has a bigger share of the computer-network market in Japan than at home . 
Typical is one office of the Ministry of International Trade and Industry 's Machinery and Information Industries Bureau -- the main bureaucracy overseeing the computer industry . `` Personal Computer '' yearbooks are lined up on nearly every desk , and dog-eared copies of Nikkei Computer crowd magazine racks . But amid the two dozen bureaucrats and secretaries sits only one real-life PC . 
`` Personal Computer '' yearbooks are lined up on nearly every desk , and dog-eared copies of Nikkei Computer crowd magazine racks . 
Japanese office workers use PCs at half the rate of their European counterparts and one-third that of the Americans . 
In the U.S. , PCs commonly perform many tasks and plug into a broad network . In Japan , many desktop terminals are limited to one function and ca n't communicate with other machines . 
In Japan , many desktop terminals are limited to one function and ca n't communicate with other machines . 
; they ring the perimeter of the large office . 
Others analyze the data . 
To transmit charts to branch offices , they use a fax machine . 
In an efficient setup , the same PC could perform all those tasks . 
In Japan , those functions account for only about a third of the software market . 
Machines dedicated solely to word processing , which have all but disappeared in the U.S. , are still more common in Japan than PCs . 
In the U.S. , one-fifth of the office PCs are hooked up to some sort of network . In Japan , about 1 % are linked . 
In Japan , about 1 % are linked . 
Some Japanese operations , such as securities-trading rooms , may be ahead of their American counterparts , he says , but `` basically , there 's little analysis done on computers in Japan . '' 
Of course , simply buying computers does n't always solve problems , and many American companies have erred by purchasing technology they did n't understand . 
Various cultural and economic forces have suppressed demand . 
`` I have no experience before with such sophisticated machinery , '' says Matsuo Toshimitsu , a 66-year-old executive vice president of Japan Air Lines , explaining his reluctance before accepting a terminal in his office this summer . 
Top Japanese executives often make decisions based on consensus and personal relationships rather than complex financial projections and fancy presentations . 
Until recently , much of the necessary technology has been unavailable or at least unaffordable . 
For the past decade , NEC Corp. has owned more than half the Japanese PC market and ruled it with near-monopoly power . 
With little competition , the computer industry here is inefficient . 
Dozens of small companies did , swiftly establishing a standard operating system . 
That spurs competition and growth , allows users to change and mix brands easily , and increases software firms ' incentive to write packages because they can be sold to users of virtually any computer . 
That is the state of Japan 's computer industry . 
NEC wo n't release its code , and every one of the dozen or so makers has its own proprietary operating system -- all incompatible with each other . 
IBM established its standard to try to stop falling behind upstart Apple Computer , but NEC was ahead from the start and did n't need to invite in competitive allies . 
Corporate pride as well as the close ties common among Japanese manufacturers help explain why . 
Most rivals `` have a working relationship with NEC , often through cross-licensing of technology , '' the Japan Personal Computer Software Association noted recently . 
`` They hesitate to market NEC-compatible machines ; NEC disapproves of such machines , and marketing one would jeopardize their relationship . '' 
; NEC disapproves of such machines , and marketing one would jeopardize their relationship . '' 
While tens of thousands of software packages using the IBM standard are available in the U.S. , they say only about 8,000 are written for NEC . 
A year ago , Japan 's Fair Trade Commission warned NEC about possible violations of anti-monopoly laws for discouraging retailers from discounting . 
`` There are no price wars , no competition . '' 
An NEC spokeswoman responds that prices are higher in Japan because customers put a greater emphasis on quality and service than they do in the U.S. . 
She adds that some technological advances trail those in the U.S. because the Japanese still import basic operating systems from American companies . 
The government is funding several projects to push PC use . 
Over the next three years , public schools will get 1.5 million PCs , a 15-fold increase from current levels . 
Toyota Motor Corp. 's sales offices in Japan have one-tenth the computers per employee that its own U.S. offices do ; over the next five years , it is aiming for rough parity . 
; over the next five years , it is aiming for rough parity . 
Within a year , Kao Corp. , a major cosmetics company , plans to eliminate 1,000 clerical jobs by putting on a central computer network some work , such as credit reports , currently performed in 22 separate offices . 
`` Managers have long been those who supervise their subordinates so orders would be properly acted on , '' a spokesman says . `` But new managers will have to be creators and innovators ... and for that purpose it is necessary to create an environment where information from both inside and outside the company can be reached easily , and also shared . '' 
Seiko Epson Corp. , a newcomer to the industry , fought off a legal challenge and started selling NEC clones last year . 
It has won about 15 % of the retail PC market . 
Sony Corp. , which temporarily dropped out of the PC business three years ago , started selling its work station in 1987 and quickly became the leading Japanese company in that market . 
Toshiba Corp. busted open that sector this summer with a notebook-sized machine that retails for less than 200,000 yen -LRB- under $ 1,500 -RRB- -- one of the smallest , cheapest PCs available in the country . 
Fujitsu Ltd. is lavishing the most expensive promotion campaign in its history -- including a 100,000-guest bash at Tokyo Dome -- for its sophisticated sound\/graphics FM Towns machine , which it advertises for everything from balancing the family checkbook to practicing karaoke , bar singing . 
Two years ago , most of the smaller makers joined under the Microsoft Corp. umbrella to adopt a version of the American IBM AT standard . 
That has n't generated much sales , but this summer Microsoft rallied all the major NEC competitors to make their new machines compatible with the IBM OS\/2 standard . 
As with many other goods , the American share of Japan 's PC market is far below that in the rest of the world . 
U.S. makers have under 10 % share , compared with half the market in Europe and 80 % at home . 
`` If it were an open market , we would have been in in 1983 or 1984 , '' says Eckhard Pfeiffer , who heads Compaq Computer Corp. 's European and international operations . 
His company , without any major effort , sells more machines in China than in Japan . 
Although it has opened a New Zealand subsidiary , it is still only `` studying '' Japan , the only nation that has n't adopted IBM-oriented specifications . 
They long made little effort here . 
IBM , though long a leader in the Japanese mainframe business , did n't introduce its first PC in Japan until five years after NEC did , and that was n't compatible even with the U.S. IBM standard . 
Apple did n't introduce a kanji machine -- one that handles the Chinese characters of written Japanese -- until three years after entering the market . 
Japan 's FTC says it is investigating Apple for allegedly discouraging retailers from discounting . 
Apple recently hired its first Japanese president , luring away an official of Toshiba 's European operations , as well as a whole Japanese top-management team . 
Earlier this year , it introduced a much more powerful kanji operating system and a kanji laser printer . 
IBM just last year started selling its first machine that could run in both Japanese and English and that substantially enhances compatibility with its American products . 
This is not only because it kills the unborn , a job at which it actually is not outstandingly efficient , zapping only 50 % to 85 % of them depending on which study you read -LRB- prostaglandin , taken in conjunction with the pill , boosts the rate to 95 % -RRB- . By contrast , surgical abortion is 99 % effective . Abortion via the pill is far more of an ordeal than conventional surgical abortion . It is time-consuming -LRB- the abortion part alone lasts three days , and the clinical part comprises a week 's worth of visits -RRB- , bloody -LRB- one woman in a Swedish trial required a transfusion , although for most it resembles a menstrual period , with bleeding lasting an average of 10 days -RRB- , and painful -LRB- many women require analgesic shots to ease them through -RRB- . Nausea and vomiting are other common side effects . Timing is of the essence with RU-486 . It is most effective taken about a week after a woman misses her menstrual period up through the seventh week of pregnancy , when it is markedly less effective . That is typically about a three-week window . So far , all the studies have concluded that RU-486 is `` safe . '' But `` safe , '' in the definition of Marie Bass of the Reproductive Health Technologies Project , means `` there 's been no evidence so far of mortality . '' No one has researched the long-term effects of RU-486 on a woman 's health or fertility . The drug seems to suppress ovulation for three to seven months after it is taken . Some women clearly have no trouble eventually conceiving again : The studies have reported repeaters in their programs . But there are no scientific data on this question . Rather ominously , rabbit studies reveal that RU-486 can cause birth defects , Lancet , the British medical journal , reported in 1987 . However , Dr. Etienne-Emile Baulieu , the French physician who invented RU-486 , wrote in a Science magazine article last month that the rabbit-test results could not be duplicated in rats and monkeys . The drug has a three-dimensional structure similar to that of DES , the anti-miscarriage drug that has been linked to cervical and vaginal cancer in some of the daughters of the women who took it . 
It is time-consuming -LRB- the abortion part alone lasts three days , and the clinical part comprises a week 's worth of visits -RRB- , bloody -LRB- one woman in a Swedish trial required a transfusion , although for most it resembles a menstrual period , with bleeding lasting an average of 10 days -RRB- , and painful -LRB- many women require analgesic shots to ease them through -RRB- . 
Nausea and vomiting are other common side effects . 
It is most effective taken about a week after a woman misses her menstrual period up through the seventh week of pregnancy , when it is markedly less effective . 
That is typically about a three-week window . 
No one has researched the long-term effects of RU-486 on a woman 's health or fertility . 
Some women clearly have no trouble eventually conceiving again : The studies have reported repeaters in their programs . 
A risk of birth defects , a sure source of lawsuits , is one reason the U.S. pharmaceutical industry is steering clear of RU-486 . 
RU-486 `` probably represents a technical advance in an area where none is needed , or at least not very much , '' said Phillip Stubblefield , president of the National Abortion Federation , at a reproductive health conference in 1986 . 
Many physicians have expressed concern over the heavy bleeding , which occurs even if the drug fails to induce an abortion . 
-LRB- Its scare-tactic prediction : the pill `` will be available in the U.S. , either legally or illegally , in no more than 2-5 years . '' -RRB- 
A June 1988 article in Mother Jones magazine is typical of the general level of media ignorance . 
`` For a woman whose period is late , using RU-486 means no waiting , no walking past picket lines at abortion clinics , and no feet up in stirrups for surgery , '' burbles health writer Laura Fraser . 
Wrong on all counts , Miss Fraser . 
-LRB- Roussel reportedly has every pill marked and accounted for to make sure none slips into the black market . -RRB- 
No doctor who fears malpractice liability would likely expose a non-pregnant patient to the risk of hemorrhaging . 
Many women may even see the dead embryo they have expelled , a sight the surgical-abortion industry typically spares them . 
At seven weeks , an embryo is about three-fourths of an inch long and recognizably human . 
If this passes -- a Senate version has already been cleared for a floor vote that is likely early next year -- it would put the federal government into the contraceptive marketing business for the first time . 
-LRB- Remember the Dalkon Shield and the early birth-control pills ? -RRB- 
This article is adapted from one in the October American Spectator . 
Some of the biggest service-industry exporters -- American financial-service companies , for example -- have yet to be fully included in our export statistics . 
Both groups believed that tens of billions of dollars of service exports -- such as inbound tourism ; legal , accounting and other professional services furnished to foreigners ; financial , engineering and construction services ; and the like -- were not being counted as exports . 
The first three major areas of the service sector to be revamped were expenditures by foreign students in the U.S. . -LRB- net after expenditures by Americans studying abroad -RRB- , some exports by professional firms -LRB- a law firm billing a German client for services rendered in watching legislation in Washington is as much an export as shipment of an American jet engine -RRB- , and improved data from travel and tourism . 
That means that the U.S. trade deficit was running closer to $ 75 billion than to $ 95 billion in 1988 , and $ 55 billion -LRB- annualized -RRB- rather than $ 80 billion in the first quarter of 1989 . 
The materially smaller trade deficit may have been already discounted in the market . 
It does not relieve the need for our market-opening efforts for both goods and services , but it does suggest that it is our exports of services , and not just borrowing , that is financing our imports of goods . 
In addition to the $ 8 million for Citicorp and Chase , Salomon Brothers is also owed $ 3 million for promising to make a $ 200 million bridge loan . 
The specialists , a trader said , were `` livid '' about Mr. Phelan 's recent remarks that sophisticated computer-driven trading strategies are `` here to stay . '' 
Many investors blame program trading for wild swings in the stock market , including the 190-point plunge in the Dow Jones Industrial Average on Oct. 13 . 
The program-trading outcry was taken to a new level when giant Contel Corp. said it and 20 or more of the Big Board 's listed companies are forming an unprecedented alliance to complain about the exchange 's role in program trading . 
Merrill has been the fourth-biggest stock-index arbitrage trader on the Big Board this year , executing an average of 18.1 million shares a month in such trades , or about one million shares a day . 
Most Wall Street firms , in pulling back , have merely stopped such trading for their own accounts . 
The idea is to lock in profits from short-term swings in volatile markets . 
Other large firms , including Bear , Stearns & Co. and Morgan Stanley & Co. , last week announced a pullback from index arbitrage , but only for the firms ' own accounts . 
Just a week ago , Mr. Carpenter staunchly defended index arbitrage at Kidder , the most active index-arbitrage trading firm on the stock exchange this year . 
Index arbitrage , Mr. Carpenter said last week , does n't have a `` negative impact on the market as a whole '' and Kidder 's customers were `` sophisticated '' enough to know that . 
`` We were following the trend of our competitors who were under pressure from institutions , '' he said . 
Most of Kidder 's program trading is for its own account , according to the New York Stock Exchange . 
`` This was a Kidder Peabody stand-alone decision . '' 
At the firm 's annual meeting last night , he told shareholders that index arbitrage wo n't go away , despite the public outcry . 
`` If they think they are going to stop index arbitrage by causing a few Wall Street firms to quit , they are crazy , '' Mr. Greenberg said . 
`` It 's not going to stop it at all . '' 
A Fidelity spokesman in Boston denied the speculation , saying the program-trading issue was more of a regulatory problem . 
He said there is `` no valid investment reason '' for stock-index futures to exist . 
Charles Wohlstetter , chairman of Contel , who is helping organize the alliance of Big Board-listed firms , said he had no time to work yesterday because he received so many phone calls , faxes and letters supporting his view that the Big Board has been turned into a `` gambling casino '' by program traders . 
`` -LCB- Wall Street -RCB- is beginning to realize -- as Shakespeare said -- the trouble is not in our stars , but in ourselves . '' 
Robert Guy , an associate curator at the Princeton Art Museum , was previewing a June antiquities sale at the auction house when he recognized the kylix , which he , as a specialist in Attic pottery and a careful reader of the Stolen Art Alert in `` IFAR Reports , '' knew was stolen . The timing of his visit was fortuitous ; the man who had brought it in for an estimate had returned to collect it and was waiting in the hall . To confirm Mr. Guy 's identification , Sotheby 's and IFAR exchanged photos by fax , and the waiting man , apparently innocent of knowledge that the kylix was stolen , agreed to release it . The cup had been insured , and in short order it was given over to a Chubb & Son representative . The original owners happily repaid the claim and took their kylix home . 
The timing of his visit was fortuitous ; the man who had brought it in for an estimate had returned to collect it and was waiting in the hall . 
; the man who had brought it in for an estimate had returned to collect it and was waiting in the hall . 
To confirm Mr. Guy 's identification , Sotheby 's and IFAR exchanged photos by fax , and the waiting man , apparently innocent of knowledge that the kylix was stolen , agreed to release it . 
The cup had been insured , and in short order it was given over to a Chubb & Son representative . 
The original owners happily repaid the claim and took their kylix home . 
He sold them well below market value to raise cash `` to pay off mounting credit-card debts , '' incurred to buy presents for his girlfriend , his attorney , Philip Russell , told IFAR . 
The curator , 27-year-old Sherman Krisher of Greenwich , Conn. , had worked his way up from janitor in seven years at the museum . 
Two days earlier , his attorney met in a Park Avenue law office with a cartoon dealer who expected to sell 44 of the most important stolen strips to Mr. Russell for $ 62,800 . Instead , New York City police seized the stolen goods , and Mr. Krisher avoided jail . 
He was sentenced to 500 hours of community service and restitution to the museum of $ 45,000 . 
Although Heathrow authorities have been watching a group of allegedly crooked baggage handlers for some time , the Gauguin may be `` lost . '' 
Chief Inspector Peter Seacomb of the Criminal Investigation Department at the airport said , `` It is not uncommon for property to be temporarily mislaid or misrouted . '' 
Their museum had purchased an Attic black-figured column krater and shipped it from London . 
It was reported stolen in transit en route to Washington , D.C. , in February . 
Months later , the Greek vase arrived in good condition at the museum in Charlottesville , having inexplicably traveled by a circuitous route through Nairobi . 
About 140 Mayan , Aztec , Mixtec and Zapotec objects , including some of Mexico 's best-known archaeological treasures , were taken . 
The government offered a reward for the return of the antiquities , but routine police work led to the recovery . 
As it turned out , Carlos Perches Trevino and Ramon Sardina Garcia had hidden the haul in a closet in the Perches family 's home for a year . Then they took the art to Acapulco and began to trade some of it for cocaine . Information from an arrested drug trafficker led to the two men and the recovery of almost all the stolen art . 
Information from an arrested drug trafficker led to the two men and the recovery of almost all the stolen art . 
The artist 's melancholy subjects bring high prices on the world market , and the U.S. State Department notified IFAR of the theft in February 1988 . 
No charges were brought against her . 
He painted one himself in the style of John Haberle and sold it as a 19th-century original to antique dealers in Woodbridge , Conn . 
; tucked behind the ribbons were envelopes , folded , faded and crumpled papers and currency . 
They persuaded Mr. Trotter to take it back and , with the help of the FBI , taped their conversation with him . 
After his arrest , the forger admitted to faking and selling other paintings up and down the Eastern seaboard . 
When properly applied , the adhesive is designed to retain the windshield in place in a crash test at 30 miles per hour . 
Ford said owners should return the cars to dealers so the windshields can be removed and securely reinstalled . 
They said the problems are n't safety related . 
The normal term for the 1986 and 1987 model 323 is two years or 24,000 miles ; the term for the 1988 323 is three years or 50,000 miles . 
; the term for the 1988 323 is three years or 50,000 miles . 
Ford said the term on its warranty is already six years or 60,000 miles . 
It said it will also offer buyers the option of financing as low as 6.9 % on 24-month loans . 
Ford also offered the low financing rate option on 1989-model Broncos , which previously carried a $ 750 cash discount . 
Because the federal pension agency had taken over the old plans , LTV would be responsible only for benefits paid under the new pension plans . 
In September 1987 , it ordered LTV to reassume liability and funding for the three original plans . 
The appeals court said there was no evidence that Congress intended to allow the pension agency to consider a company 's creation of new benefit plans as a basis for ordering that company to reassume liability for old plans . 
The company has n't been able to come up with a reorganization plan , in part , because of the sizable disagreement with the pension agency . 
Breaking into the raucous Chicago Bears-Cleveland Browns match during last week 's Monday night football game , it was nothing but simple block letters superimposed on the TV screen . 
The Nissan logo flashed on the screen for a moment , and then came a taped plea for donations from former President Reagan -- followed by the silent print telling viewers where to call . 
Within two hours , viewers pledged over $ 400,000 , according to a Red Cross executive . 
; always , they try to boost good will . 
By advertising disaster relief , these companies are hoping to don a white hat and come out a hero . 
; if the ads appear too self-serving , the companies may end up looking like rank opportunists instead of good Samaritans . 
Along with Nissan , Grand Metropolitan PLC 's Burger King and New York Life Insurance have tied ads to Red Cross donations . 
Other ads do n't bother with the fundraising ; a touching , if self-congratulatory , American Telephone & Telegraph ad that aired Sunday intermixed footage of the devastation in San Francisco and Charleston , S.C. , with interviews of people recounting how AT&T helped . 
; a touching , if self-congratulatory , American Telephone & Telegraph ad that aired Sunday intermixed footage of the devastation in San Francisco and Charleston , S.C. , with interviews of people recounting how AT&T helped . 
`` What did we get out of it ? 
While TV commercials typically take weeks to produce , advertisers in the past couple of years have learned to turn on a dime , to crash out ads in days or even hours . 
The big brokerage houses learned the art of the instant commercial after the 1987 crash , when they turned out reassuring ads inviting investors right back into the stock market . 
They trotted out another crop of instant commercials after the sudden market dip a few weeks ago . 
Nissan created its quake ad in a weekend . 
They chance alienating the customers they hope to woo by looking like opportunistic sharks . 
`` People see extra messages in advertising , and if a manufacturer is clearly trying to get something out of it ... if it 's too transparent ... then consumers will see through that , '' warns John Philip Jones , chairman of the advertising department at the Newhouse School of Public Communications at Syracuse University . 
`` The ultimate form of charity is when you do n't tell anyone . '' 
We do n't consider that ambulance chasing . '' 
`` Barry felt very committed . Burger King 's chief executive officer , Barry Gibbons , stars in ads saying that the fast-food chain will donate 25 cents to the Red Cross for every purchase of a BK Doubles hamburger . The campaign , which started last week and runs through Nov. 23 , with funds earmarked for both the quake and Hugo , `` was Barry 's idea , '' a spokeswoman says . 
The campaign , which started last week and runs through Nov. 23 , with funds earmarked for both the quake and Hugo , `` was Barry 's idea , '' a spokeswoman says . 
`` Barry felt very committed . 
He felt we should be giving something back . '' 
: The donations will come out of the chain 's national advertising fund , which is financed by the franchisees . 
`` The World Series is brought to you by Lexus , who urges you to help relieve the suffering caused by the recent earthquake ... , '' the game announcer said . 
New York Life has been doing the same for over 140 years . '' 
A strong challenge from the far left , the Communist coalition Izquierda Unida , failed to topple him . 
He should consider his victory a mandate to continue his growth-oriented economic reforms and not a demand that he move further left . 
If he follows the correct path , he may be able to look back on this election as the high-water mark of far-left opposition . 
It could point to plenty of ailments that the Spanish economic rejuvenation so far has failed to cure . 
Unemployment still is officially recorded at 16.5 % , the highest rate in Europe , although actual joblessness may be lower . 
Housing is scarce and public services -- the court system , schools , mail service , telephone network and the highways -- are in disgraceful condition . 
Large pockets of poverty still exist . 
Mr. Gonzalez and his colleagues , particularly the finance minister , Carlos Solchaga , are charged with having abandoned their socialist principles and with having become arrogant elitists who refuse even to go on television -LRB- controlled by the state -RRB- to face their accusers . 
In response to this , the Socialist prime minister has simply cited his free-market accomplishments . 
: Since 1986 , when Spain joined the European Community , its gross domestic product has grown at an annual average of 4.6 % -- the fastest in the EC . 
In that time more than 1.2 million jobs have been created and the official jobless rate has been pushed below 17 % from 21 % . 
A 14 % inflation rate dropped below 5 % . 
Net foreign investment through August this year has been running at a pace of $ 12.5 billion , about double the year-earlier rate . 
He did not go as far as he could have in tax reductions ; indeed he combined them with increases in indirect taxes . 
Now he can go further . 
He should do more to reduce tax rates on wealth and income , in recognition of the fact that those cuts yield higher , not lower , revenues . 
He could do more to cut public subsidies and transfers , thus making funds available for public services starved of money for six years . 
They , as well as numerous Latin American and East European countries that hope to adopt elements of the Spanish model , are supporting the direction Spain is taking . 
It would be sad for Mr. Gonzalez to abandon them to appease his foes . 
Just when American liberalism had pulled the arms plug on the Contras and their friend Ronald Reagan , along comes Mr. Ortega in Costa Rica this weekend to `` blunder '' into the hands of what are often called conservatives . 
Liberals are the faction that says , Give peace a chance ; now they are saying Mr. Ortega should give them a break , lest the conservatives ask them to vote for bullets instead of bandages . 
; now they are saying Mr. Ortega should give them a break , lest the conservatives ask them to vote for bullets instead of bandages . 
He knows that making George Bush look silly in a photograph with him will trigger Noriegan fulminations , and that announcing an end to the liberals ' cease-fire will produce mainly their concern over the Contras ' military activities in northern Nicaragua . 
Mr. Ortega understands better than those who worry about his behavior that what sustains the Sandinista movement is not democratic peace , but nondemocratic unpeace . 
It is the presence of internal and external `` enemies '' which justifies the need for a large , active army that Mikhail Gorbachev 's Soviet Union continues to supply with bullets . 
Four other countries in Europe have approved Proleukin in recent months . 
Cetus is currently trying to obtain federal regulatory clearance for U.S. distribution . 
The Treasury is still working out the details with bank trade associations and the other government agencies that have a hand in fighting money laundering . 
Another suggestion would draw banks more directly into tracking down money launderers by developing a `` suspicious international wire transfer profile , '' which banks would use to spotlight questionable payments . 
Officials believe this has left a gaping loophole that illegal drug businesses are exploiting . 
A Western Union spokesman , citing adverse developments in the market for high-yield `` junk '' bonds , declined to say what alternatives are under consideration . 
The OTC market now has declined in eight of the past 11 sessions . 
The largest financial issues , as measured by the Nasdaq financial index , tumbled 3.23 to 
He said many portfolio managers , whose year-end bonuses are tied to annual performance , are selling now rather than risk seeing their gains erode further . 
That 's helping put pressure on both the market 's winners and its losers . 
He expects the market to sink further and to reach a low sometime next month or in December . 
`` We are advising a lot of our clients to make moves that make sense to them , rather than waiting until the last minute , because things have been so volatile , '' said William Sulya , head of OTC trading at A.G. Edwards & Sons in St. Louis . 
Ralph Costanza , head of the OTC trading department at Smith Barney , Harris Upham , said many market players are awaiting some resolution of the current debate over program trading . 
The stock jumped 9 1\/2 Friday , when the company announced it was in takeover talks . 
The bank said the talks resulted from solicitations by its financial adviser . 
Daimler said it has had talks with Jaguar about possible joint ventures . 
Ford has acquired more than 13 % of Jaguar 's shares , and GM has received U.S. regulatory clearance to buy 15 % . 
The company reported third-quarter operating profit of 37 cents a share , compared with 12 cents a share a year earlier . 
A third-quarter charge of $ 3.5 million related to planned restaurant closings resulted in a net loss for the quarter . 
The loss was largely due to a $ 55.2 million addition to reserves . 
Employers Casualty had a loss of $ 3.6 million in the year-earlier quarter . 
Late Friday , the company reported a loss of $ 51.3 million for the third quarter after earning $ 9.2 million a year before . 
The bank made a $ 4.5 million provision in the 1988 quarter . 
Already , scientists are developing tests based on the newly identified genes that , for the first time , can predict whether an otherwise healthy individual is likely to get cancer . 
`` Only a decade ago cancer was a black box about which we knew nothing at the molecular level . 
Today , we know that the accumulation of several of these altered genes can initiate a cancer and , then , propel it into a deadly state . '' 
When functioning normally , they make proteins that hold a cell 's growth in check . 
In recent months , researchers have come to believe the two types of cancer genes work in concert : An oncogene may turn proliferating cells malignant only after the tumor-suppressor gene has been damaged . 
: An oncogene may turn proliferating cells malignant only after the tumor-suppressor gene has been damaged . 
A person who is born with one defective copy of a suppressor gene , or in whom one copy is damaged early in life , is especially prone to cancer because he need only lose the other copy for a cancer to develop . 
Mr. Quinlan , 30 years old , knew he carried a damaged gene , having lost an eye to the rare tumor when he was only two months old -- after his mother had suffered the same fate when she was a baby . 
`` It made our New Year , '' says Mr. Quinlan . 
Equally important , the initial discovery of the gene that controls retinal cell growth , made by a Boston doctor named Thaddeus Dryja , has opened a field of cancer study , which in recent months has exploded . 
`` It turns out that studying a tragic but uncommon tumor made possible some fundamental insights about the most basic workings of cancer , '' says Samuel Broder , director of the National Cancer Institute . 
`` All this may not be obvious to the public , which is concerned about advances in treatment , but I am convinced this basic research will begin showing results there soon . '' 
Dr. Dryja made his retinoblastoma discovery in 1986 . 
There is evidence that if people inherit defective versions of these genes , they are especially prone to cancer , perhaps explaining , finally , why some cancers seem to haunt certain families . 
He theorized that in the eye cancer , an infant inherited a damaged copy of a gene from one parent and a normal copy from the other . 
The tumor , he suggested , developed when the second , normal copy also was damaged . 
Under a microscope he could actually see that a bit of chromosome 13 was missing . 
He assumed the missing piece contained a gene or genes whose loss had a critical role in setting off the cancer . 
The team used a battery of the newly developed `` gene probes , '' snippets of genetic material that can track a gene 's presence in a cell . 
It was the first time anyone had showed that the loss of both copies of the same gene could lead to the eruption of a cancer . 
`` It was extraordinarily satisfying , '' says Dr. Knudson , now at Fox Chase Cancer Research Center in Philadelphia . 
`` I was convinced that what was true of retinoblastoma would be true for all cancers . '' 
His was one of two research teams in 1984 to report dual chromosome losses for a rare childhood cancer of the kidney called Wilm 's tumor . 
He believed colon cancer might also arise from multiple `` hits '' on cancer suppressor genes , because it often seems to develop in stages . 
It often is preceded by the development of polyps in the bowel , which in some cases become increasingly malignant in identifiable stages -- progressing from less severe to deadly -- as though a cascade of genetic damage might be occurring . 
Gradually , a coherent picture of cancer development emerged . 
If both copies of a certain gene were knocked out , benign polyps would develop . 
If both copies of a second gene were then deleted , the polyps would progress to malignancy . 
It was clear that more than one gene had to be damaged for colon cancer to develop . 
`` It was the confirming evidence we all needed that -LCB- gene -RCB- losses were critical to the development of a common tumor , '' says Ray White at Howard Hughes Medical Institute in Salt Lake City . 
They focused on chromosome 17 . 
For months the Johns Hopkins researchers , using gene probes , experimentally crawled down the length of chromosome 17 , looking for the smallest common bit of genetic material lost in all tumor cells . 
Such a piece of DNA would probably constitute a gene . 
His doubts stemmed from the fact that several years earlier a Princeton University researcher , Arnold Levine , had found in experiments with mice that a gene called p53 could transform normal cells into cancerous ones . The deletion Dr. Vogelstein found was in exactly the same spot as p53 . 
The deletion Dr. Vogelstein found was in exactly the same spot as p53 . 
Researchers in Edinburgh , Scotland , have found that in 23 of 38 breast tumors , one copy of chromosome 17 was mutated at the spot where gene p53 lies . 
The scientists say that since breast cancer often strikes multiple members of certain families , the gene , when inherited in a damaged form , may predispose women to the cancer . 
In a report out last week , John Minna and colleagues at the National Cancer Institute say that about half the cells taken from lung cancer tissue they tested are missing this gene . 
Dr. Vogelstein hopes soon to isolate one on chromosome 18 , also involved in colon cancer . 
Ray White in Utah and Walter Bodmer , a researcher in Great Britain , are close to finding another gene involved with some types of colon cancer , thought to be on chromosome 5 . 
Already two major pharmaceutical companies , the Squibb unit of Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. and Hoffmann-La Roche Inc. , are collaborating with gene hunters to turn the anticipated cascade of discoveries into predictive tests and , maybe , new therapies . 
The idea would be to administer to patients the growth-controlling proteins made by healthy versions of the damaged genes . 
It may even be possible to replace defective genes with healthy versions , though no one has come close to doing that so far . 
When the company this month announced lower-than-forecast sales of Easy Eggs , the stock dropped nearly 19 % . 
Two Minneapolis shareholder suits in the past month have accused top officers of making `` various untrue statements . '' 
These federal-court suits accuse the officers of failing to disclose that Easy Eggs were unlikely to sell briskly enough to justify all of Michael 's production capacity . 
The Miami fast-food chain , owned by Grand Metropolitan of Britain , expects to consume roughly 34 million pounds of liquefied eggs annually . 
A company official says Michael 's break-even volume on Easy Eggs is around 60 million pounds a year -- apparently well above current shipments and a far cry from what the company once suggested was a billion-pound market waiting for such a product . 
Other institutional users reportedly include Marriott , which is moving away from fresh eggs on a region-by-region basis . 
The extent of Marriott 's use is n't known , and Marriott officials could n't be reached for comment . 
Many analysts question management 's credibility . 
A spokesman said later that Mr. Olson was being `` conservative '' in his estimate . 
He argues that Michael Foods is misunderstood : `` This is a growth company in the packaged food industry -- a rare breed , like finding a white rhino . '' 
: `` This is a growth company in the packaged food industry -- a rare breed , like finding a white rhino . '' 
Last week a closely held New Jersey concern , Papetti High-Grade Egg Products Co. , rolled out an aseptically packaged liquefied item called Table Ready . 
Says New York-based short seller Mark Cohodes , `` In my mind this is a $ 7 stock . '' 
Company lawyers recently sent letters to growers saying that Michael `` would take very seriously any effort ... to divert its contracted-for potatoes to other outlets . '' 
The purchase , expected to be completed by year end , will make Quebecor the second-largest commercial printer in North America , behind only R.R. Donnelley & Sons Co. , Chicago . 
He already has achieved vertical integration on a limited scale : Quebecor can put a weekly newspaper on almost any Quebec doorstep without using outside help , from chopping down the tree to making the newsprint to flinging it up onto the porch . 
: Quebecor can put a weekly newspaper on almost any Quebec doorstep without using outside help , from chopping down the tree to making the newsprint to flinging it up onto the porch . 
They are buying an operation that is running well . '' 
`` Size does n't matter , '' Mr. Peladeau says . 
`` What counts is the bottom line . '' 
Quebecor started the Philadelphia Journal , a daily tabloid , in 1977 and closed it three years later . The venture cost Quebecor $ 12 million , Mr. Peladeau says . 
The venture cost Quebecor $ 12 million , Mr. Peladeau says . 
Quebecor still lags in the Quebec circulars market , while Mr. Peladeau 's former employees are expanding across Canada . 
The tabloid 's circulation soared to 80,000 , but plunged to under 10,000 when the La Presse strike ended . 
Now the Journal , flush with ads and hugely profitable , is even with La Presse in weekend circulation and outsells it 3 to 2 every weekday . 
`` I 've read Balzac , '' he answers critics . 
`` It 's tabloid news from A to Z . '' 
A series of recent acquisitions made it the dominant magazine publisher in Quebec . 
It will have 61 plants from coast to coast and $ 1.5 billion in annual sales . 
Caisse de Depot et Placement , the Quebec government pension-fund agency , will pay $ 112.5 million for the remaining 22.5 % stake in the printing operation . 
Last October , Quebecor bought 23 Canadian printing plants from BCE Inc. , a Montreal telecommunications , manufacturing , energy and real estate company . 
That purchase doubled Quebecor 's annual printing revenue to $ 750 million . 
Quebecor Class B stock closed at C$ 15.375 , up 62.5 Canadian cents . 
The suit , filed in federal court in Manhattan , charges that New York 's mandatory retirement age of 76 violates federal law . 
The commission 's filing in that case challenges Connecticut 's mandatory retirement age of 70 for appointed judges . 
The issue is one of a judge 's experience , his competence and his physical ability to serve on the bench , '' Justice Rubin said . 
Because Justice Rubin turned 76 on May 9 , he is n't eligible to be reappointed to the bench at the end of the year . 
Most New York judges are elected , and the federal age-discrimination law does n't apply to elected officials , said James L. Lee , regional attorney for the EEOC in New York . 
Under New York law , elected judges must retire at age 70 , but then can be appointed to two-year terms until they reach 76 . 
He says the strike-force lawyers will work more efficiently under the supervision of U.S. attorneys . 
They predict that organized-crime activity will increase once the units are dissolved and their responsibilities transferred to U.S. attorneys ' offices . 
The Eastern District unit in Brooklyn , N.Y. , lost seven of its 15 attorneys this year partly because the lawyers were troubled by the proposed reorganization , says Laura A. Brevetti , who left the strike force to join Morrison Cohen Singer & Weinstein , a New York law firm . 
He says 27 lawyers have left and 21 have been hired since Mr. Thornburgh announced his plan . 
A spokesman for Sen. Edward M. Kennedy -LRB- D. , Mass . -RRB- says Mr. Thornburgh would be required to reinstate the units next year if an proposed omnibus crime bill is passed . 
Among other things , the bill calls for a reorganization of the Justice Department . 
`` I do n't think -LRB- the reorganization is -RRB- going to happen . '' 
The woman appeared in court Thursday to enter her plea , but when she started to approach the bench , she was stopped by Judge Hancock . He told the woman 's lawyer , Victor Blaine , that the short skirt was inappropriate for a court appearance . Despite Mr. Blaine 's protests , the judge rescheduled her case for Nov. 27 . 
He told the woman 's lawyer , Victor Blaine , that the short skirt was inappropriate for a court appearance . 
Despite Mr. Blaine 's protests , the judge rescheduled her case for Nov. 27 . 
Yesterday , in documents filed in connection with that case , Warner accused Sony officials of falsely claiming that they never read the five-year contract requiring the two producers to make movies exclusively for Columbia , citing Securities and Exchange Commission filings made by Sony that described the contracts . 
Mr. Smith said statements about the contract made in SEC filings were made by attorneys who did have access to the contracts but who were n't part of the negotiations between Sony and the duo . 
Such a dual role would be `` impractical and unethical , '' Warner said , adding , `` that concept is as silly as suggesting that the head coach of the Los Angeles Dodgers could simultaneously be general manager of the San Francisco Giants . '' 
Earlier this year , Dataproducts had rejected a $ 15 a share offer from DPC , saying it was n't adequately financed . 
DPC last week launched a new , $ 10-a-share offer for the Woodland Hills , Calif.-based computer printer maker . 
Sales climbed 71 % to $ 6.36 billion from $ 3.72 billion as the company capitalized on the ravenous global demand for commercial airliners . 
That included 21 of the company 's 747-400 jumbo jets , its most successful product . 
In New York Stock Exchange composite trading , Boeing closed yesterday at $ 54.50 a share , off a scant 12.5 cents . 
In a statement , Chairman Frank Shrontz asserted that the company `` faces significant challenges and risks , '' on both its commercial and government contracts . 
Because of cost overruns on fixed-price military work , Mr. Shrontz said , the company 's defense business will record `` a significant loss '' in 1989 . 
Suppliers and subcontractors are experiencing heightened pressure to support delivery schedules . 
Besides the Machinists pact , accords representing 30,000 of the company 's engineering and technical employees in the Puget Sound and Wichita , Kan. , areas expire in early December . 
This contract , covering about 3,000 hourly production and maintenance workers , is being extended on a day-to-day basis . 
On top of that , Boeing would make cost-of-living adjustments projected to be 5 % for each year of the contract . 
The company reiterated yesterday that it 's willing to reconfigure the package , but not add to the substance of it . 
Sales soared 28 % to $ 15.43 billion from $ 12.09 billion . 
They added that the settlement is the culmination of a 2 1\/2-year investigation into the company 's aluminum pricing practices in connection with KC-135s . 
That was borne out by the Justice Department 's decision '' to settle the case . 
The Toronto-based company , together with Tenneco Inc. of Houston , has had an incomplete proposal filed with Canadian regulators since 1984 that it is now updating . 
Industry sources said they expect a fierce battle to emerge between TransCanada , which has a monopoly on Canadian gas transportation east of Alberta , and Nova and Westcoast , which control the pipelines within and running west of Alberta , respectively . 
`` Neither is going to back down easily . '' 
Kent Jesperson , president of Foothills , said the company believes the project would be viable if gas prices reach US$ 3.25 a thousand cubic feet by 1995 , in current dollars , up from a current spot price of about US$ 1.50 . 
If that option is favored by gas buyers and regulators , Foothills said it would build another smaller pipeline connecting Mackenzie Delta reserves to the Alaska mainline . 
Douglas Stoneman , vice president of Shell Canada , noted that producers would prefer to avoid hearings into competing proposals that would lengthen the regulatory review process and bog down development . 
In recent years , unions and community groups have won big commitments from banks to make low-interest loans in certain neighborhoods by threatening to hold up proposed acquisitions with protests to the Fed about reinvestment act compliance . 
The petition challenged First Union 's lending record in the state , saying that the bank-holding company had `` shut itself off from contact with the low-income community and is redlining almost every black neighborhood that it serves in the state . '' 
The bank added that it believes the review will `` demonstrate that First Union is in compliance with the requirements of the Community Reinvestment Act . '' 
It said yesterday it still expects to close the acquisition later this year or early in 1990 . 
That would make it the second-largest bank , after Barnett Banks Inc. , in a state widely considered to be the most lucrative banking market in the country . 
Florida National stock closed unchanged at $ 25.875 in national over-the-counter trading . 
An Eastern spokesman said `` the $ 40 million will have no effect whatsoever on the asset structure of Eastern 's plan . 
Forty million in the total scheme of things is not that significant . '' 
Because the carrier is still pledging to do that , some committee members successfully argued that there 's little reason yet to explore a different plan , according to one person familiar with the creditors ' position . 
Earlier this month the accounting firm of Ernst & Young and the securities firm of Goldman , Sachs & Co. , the experts hired by the creditors , contended that Eastern would have difficulty meeting earnings targets the airline was projecting . 
Ernst & Young said Eastern 's plan would miss projections by $ 100 million . 
Goldman said Eastern would miss the same mark by at least $ 120 million . 
He said only that the committee has not yet taken any position on Eastern 's reorganization plan and that the two sides were still negotiating . 
`` In every case , people would like to see a consentual plan , '' he said . 
Eastern eventually decided not to sell off a major chunk , its South American routes , which were valued at $ 400 million . 
Such a change meant the reorganization plan the creditors had agreed on was no longer valid , and the two sides had to begin negotiating again . 
The underwriters expect a single-A-minus rating from Standard & Poor 's Corp. , which has the issue under review . 
The move comes a week after Paribas announced that it was preparing to bid for 66.7 % control of Navigation Mixte . 
That would be a blow to both Paribas and Navigation Mixte . 
Each had claimed Allianz , Europe 's largest insurance company , as a tacit ally . 
It led to broad market speculation that Paribas now will sweeten its bid , which is expected to be formally launched later this week , after approval from French government regulators . 
Deutsche Bank , Dresdner Bank and Commerzbank all also have expressed eagerness to expand in France before 1992 . 
Commerzbank had hoped to buy a stake in Credit Lyonnais , until the Socialists returned to government last year and canceled plans to privatize the large French bank . 
Deutsche Bank has actively sought a French acquisition for at least two years . 
Lately , analysts say , Deutsche Bank has shocked some in the French financial community by indicating it wants a strong bank with a large number of branches . 
`` The banks we think would fit into our concept are either government-owned or not for sale , though Deutsche Bank would be able to pay a good price . '' 
Paris market sources said they believed Allianz was buying yesterday morning , and Navigation Mixte moved up 108 francs -LRB- $ 17.19 -RRB- to close at 1,908 francs in heavy trading . 
Navigation Mixte holds the remaining 50 % . 
The problem here , analysts say , is that if Paribas wins its 66.7 % , remaining Navigation Mixte shares will fall in value . 
That displeases many current holders , such as Allianz , which could n't be sure of selling all their shares if they tendered to Paribas . 
That would be bad news for Navigation Mixte 's current management , which was counting on Allianz to help fend off Paribas . 
Allianz did n't say whom , if anyone , it will support . 
It said simply that it will boost its Navigation Mixte stake as it sees fit over the coming days to protect itself , as long as it has French regulatory officials ' approval . 
It is to offer 1,800 francs for shares created on July 1 , which receive partial dividends . 
A drive with 120 megabytes of capacity is scheduled for release during the third quarter of 1990 . 
After an internal investigation , the company found that senior officials used a variety of schemes to fabricate sales gains , including counting shipments of bricks and defective drives as sales . 
The pact calls for the Times to pay dealers $ 3.6 million over six years , as well as other payments in the form of subsidies over three years , based on the number of `` new customers started by the dealers and on pricing structures , '' the Times said . 
Currently , about 60 % of home delivery subscribers in the New York area receive the paper directly from the Times . 
Such a focus is `` more profitable , more efficient and gives us a greater sense of control , '' said William A. Shane , Mercury 's senior executive vice president . 
`` He has n't added anything , '' Mr. Levine said , predicting the board will again reject Mr. Green 's proposal . 
The ad agency had approached Ms. Midler about appearing , but she declined , citing a longstanding policy of refusing advertising work . The agency then turned to a former backup singer for Ms. Midler who appeared in the ad and crooned what was generally considered a more than credible imitation of Ms. Midler 's 1973 hit song `` Do You Wanna Dance . '' 
The agency then turned to a former backup singer for Ms. Midler who appeared in the ad and crooned what was generally considered a more than credible imitation of Ms. Midler 's 1973 hit song `` Do You Wanna Dance . '' 
That is a property right that belongs to the performer . '' 
Ms. Sinatra sued over the use of her `` These Boots are Made for Walkin ' '' song in the ad . 
I am not sure that judges , many of whom I like very much , are proper repositories for making distinctions about pop singers , '' said Richard Kurnit , a New York advertising lawyer . 
`` It has made people think twice about how they use music and is forcing them to be more circumspect about doing a particular rendition of a song in its most famous form , '' he said . 
The company said it plans to form European ventures with Italian and Finnish companies . 
Since Anchor is still seeking this waiver , Vitro said the tender offer is being extended until 5 p.m. EST tomorrow . 
They argue that weakness in both the yen and sterling have helped offset bearish U.S. economic news and have lent support to the dollar . 
Sterling was quoted at $ 1.5820 , up from $ 1.5795 late Friday . 
In Europe , the dollar closed slightly up in a market dominated by cross trades . 
Estimated volume was a moderate 3.5 million ounces . 
A splinter group demonstrated in Pushkin Square , where the police clubbed and detained a number of protesters . 
While the Kremlin has urged a ban on output of the poison gases , the White House wants to continue producing the weapons even after an international treaty calling for their destruction is signed . 
Ortega had threatened to end a 19-month-old ceasefire . 
The captain of the aircraft carrier , the oldest in the Navy , said the flier was making his first attempt to land on a carrier . 
All four demonstrators were arrested . 
The heaviest damage was reported in Tipasa , about 40 miles west of Algiers . 
One poll , conducted for the British Broadcasting Corp. , found that 52 % of voters believed that she should quit . 
The number of workers in production sectors will be cut by 488 , to 5,200 by September . 
The cuts will be made half within Germany and half abroad . 
It cited the expected beneficial effects of a concentration on key products , further structural changes within the group and cooperation agreements with other companies . 
Analysts questioned whether Georgia-Pacific will ultimately prevail , saying other paper concerns may make competing bids . 
GE 's Kidder Peabody unit said it would stop doing stock-index arbitrage for its own account , while Merrill Lynch said it was halting such trading entirely . 
The justices agreed to decide whether federal insurers can require LTV to take back responsiblilty for funding its $ 2.3 billion pension shortfall . 
The Supreme Court let stand a New York ruling that all manufacturers of an anti-miscarriage drug are liable for injuries or deaths if the actual maker is n't known . 
The drugstore chain reacted cautiously , saying the plan would further swell its huge debt , which forced the company into Chapter 11 protection last year . 
Officials at some Rockefeller units are said to be unhappy with the agreement . 
Chairman and Chief Executive Joseph Corr was succeeded by Frank Lorenzo , chief of parent Texas Air . 
An estimated 14.7 million Cray Computer shares will be distributed , Cray Research said . 
The company , which makes computer parts said fiscal 1989 earnings were `` down slightly '' from $ 3.2 million , or 74 cents a share , in fiscal l988 . 
`` The current backlog of orders is strong throughout the corporation , '' he said . 
Revenue for the year fell 13 % to $ 122.7 million . 
For each $ 1,000 face amount of debentures , holders received $ 250 of Series B 11 % senior secured convertible notes due Oct. 15 , 1998 , and 200 common shares . 
Its bid : one yen , or less than a U.S. penny . 
`` From a common-sense viewpoint , it was not socially acceptable , '' a Fujitsu spokeswoman said yesterday . 
`` We expect a big market in the future , so in the long term it will be profitable . 
It 's a kind of an investment . '' 
`` I was flabbergasted , '' Tatsuhara Yamane , head of the bureau , was quoted by Kyodo news service as saying . 
`` I understand the firm 's enthusiasm in getting the deal , but such a large company would have been better off showing a little more discretion . '' 
The Fujitsu spokeswoman said headquarter officials did n't approve the bid in advance and will take measures so this kind of thing does n't happen in the future . 
`` It 's contrary to common sense , '' she added . 
The system could be used in a fire or earthquake to locate problems , among other things . 
Japanese local governments are expected to invest heavily in computer systems over the next few years , and many companies expect that field to provide substantial revenue . 
`` In the near future , it will be a big market , not just for waterworks , but for all mapping systems , '' the Fujitsu spokeswoman said . 
`` We can expect a hundreds-of-billions-of-yen market . '' 
Earlier this year , the U.S. complained that Japan 's supercomputer makers were effectively closing out foreign competitors by slashing prices as much as 90 % for universities . 
Three competitors bid between 300,000 yen and 500,000 yen , according to the Hiroshima government office . 
Other bids ranged from about 10 million yen to 29 million yen . 
The additions solidify American 's position as the third-largest U.S. transatlantic carrier , behind PanAm Corp. 's Pan American World Airways and Trans World Airlines . 
Earnings at the department-store division , which generates the bulk of profit , should remain at least stable , while income at the mail-order and tourism units is likely to fall slightly from 1988 , the company said . 
`` It 's quite a bombshell , '' said one , adding that the offer could spark a period of industry consolidation . 
Nekoosa closed yesterday at $ 42.75 , up $ 2.75 , in New York Stock Exchange composite trading . 
`` You have to watch out for counterbids , '' said one analyst . `` 
International Paper or Weyerhaeuser could step in . '' 
Value Line added , `` With discounts widening on business papers , and with newsprint and corrugated shipments flat , we expect negative earnings comparisons through next year . '' 
The companies said the acquisition is subject to a definitive agreement . 
They said they expect the transaction to be completed by Dec. 15 . 
It has said it hopes to control 5 % of jewelry business in the U.S. by 1992 ; currently it controls about 2 % . 
; currently it controls about 2 % . 
The company , which makes integrated circuits and other electronic parts , now has about 47 million common shares outstanding . 
The resulting haunted house tends to reward followership , not leadership , it creates guilt about wearing the uniform , and raises doubt about having the will to fulfill the ghosts ' role , i.e. , to be able to win if called on . 
Ever since the days of Alfred Thayer Mahan -LRB- U.S. naval officer and naval historian -RRB- and Teddy Roosevelt the Navy has been the service most favored by Washington officialdom . 
Mr. Lehman overlooks the fact that the Navy possesses its own air force -LRB- the carrier fleet -RRB- and its own army -LRB- the Marines -RRB- , which in turn has its own air force . 
The 48-year-old Mr. Corr was hired largely because he was credited with returning Trans World Airlines Inc. to profitability while he was its president from 1986 to 1988 . 
Before that , he was an executive with a manufacturing concern . 
The companies are followed by at least three analysts , and had a minimum five-cent change in actual earnings per share . 
Estimated and actual results involving losses are omitted . 
Mr. McCall will remain chairman . 
He will remain chairman . 
Charles R. Simpson Jr. , 46 , president and chief operating officer , will assume the chief executive 's post . 
The summer crop is harvested , winter sowing has yet to begin . 
Farmers in loose turbans and fancy earrings spend their afternoons laughing and gossiping at the markets . 
The Arabs had merely oil . 
These farmers may have a grip on the world 's very heart . 
If further research proves the seed 's benefits , this dusty farm district could become the epicenter of a health-food fad to rival all fads since cod-liver oil . 
`` The proper climatic conditions do n't exist in many places in the world . '' 
Local farmers say it is as good a cash crop as mustard or fenugreek , a legume . But they have no desire to eat a bowl of psyllium each morning , and , perhaps , little need : lean , frugal vegetarians , the farmers are innocents in the clogged , treacherous world of cholesterol . 
`` I can assure you , '' attests a 25-year-old lawyer in New Delhi , with a meaningfully raised eyebrow , `` from personal experience , it works . '' 
A prominent businessman in Bombay gives a similar testimonial : `` I have been taking it daily since 1961 . 
Some apply it to gouty joints . 
; the seed itself is fed to animals . 
Cincinnati-based P&G took an interest ; it ordered two studies on psyllium and cholesterol . 
; it ordered two studies on psyllium and cholesterol . 
After 16 weeks , the group that took three daily teaspoons of Metamucil saw a significant dip in their general cholesterol levels , and an even larger reduction in levels of low-density lipoproteins , the so-called bad cholesterol . 
In late 1987 , P&G asked the FDA for approval to market Metamucil as the first non-prescription , cholesterol-lowering product in the 
General Mills Inc. , the food giant , launched a breakfast cereal called Benefit , containing psyllium , oat , wheat and beet bran ; the words , `` reduce cholesterol '' were prominently displayed on its package . 
; the words , `` reduce cholesterol '' were prominently displayed on its package . 
The flood of claims and counter-claims worried consumers and actually hurt sales of the new cereals . 
This month , the Food and Drug Administration expressed concern that Americans might someday , in various forms , ingest too much psyllium . 
The FDA has asked Kellogg and General Mills to show research that their cereals are safe . 
If the FDA approves the new uses of psyllium , other companies are expected to rush to market with psyllium products . 
Says psyllium exporter Mr. Patel : `` I just got back yesterday from the U.S. . In the newspapers , on the radio and TV , psyllium is everywhere . '' 
They only know of one use for the crop , as a laxative , and with psyllium prices currently languishing in the wake of a bumper crop , they think of the seed as a marginal crop , something to grow between summer wheat crops . 
You get a rain at the wrong time and the crop is ruined . '' 
The staff brags about psyllium 's hefty contribution to American regularity , without quite grasping the implications of the research on cholesterol . 
The council 's annual report has psyllium on its last page , lumped with such unglamorous export items as sarsaparilla and `` Nux vomica , '' a plant that induces vomiting . 
They want psyllium prices low for their purchases next year . 
Sidhpur and adjacent districts are the only places in the world where psyllium is grown in large quantities . 
This is partly due to the particular demands of the crop . 
Psyllium needs sandy soil , dew during the first few weeks , and then total dryness when its seeds are maturing . 
Small crops are grown in Pakistan , France , Spain , Italy , Belgium and Brazil , but their quality ca n't compare to that of Indian psyllium . 
`` It 's not a crop that ca n't be doubled or tripled , '' says Mr. Krishnamurthy . 
Many farmers , too removed to glean psyllium 's new sparkle in the West , have decided to plant mustard , fennel , cumin , fenugreek or castor-oil seeds . 
`` Maybe I 'll plant castor-oil seeds . '' 
His brother , Parkhaji , whose head is swathed in a gorgeous crimson turban , nods vigorous assent . 
Insurance premiums for one small Maryland concern went up 130 % in less than two years , the last increase coming after one of its three workers developed a herniated disk . 
She said her employer ca n't afford the rate increases , and she fears she wo n't find another job with a benefit plan covering her ailment . 
Surveys repeatedly show that small-business owners rank the availability and rising cost of health insurance as one of their biggest concerns . 
What we 're seeing now makes a mockery of the idea of insurance : collect premiums from the healthy , dump the sick and let them pay their own bills . '' 
Some lawmakers may seek legislation to limit overly restrictive insurance policies . 
As larger companies increasingly self-insure , or use reserves to pay their own workers ' medical bills , the insurance industry has turned to the small-employer market that was once a backwater for them . 
`` One case of cancer or a high-risk pregnancy with a sick infant , and rates go up 40 % to 60 % . 
Small-business people end up paying insurance premiums worth two to three times the cost of one illness . '' 
They say insurance companies use policies aimed at excluding bad risks because their competitors do . 
`` You ca n't ask one carrier to underwrite on social grounds when that might destroy it in the marketplace . '' 
Such requirements , they argue , make it difficult to provide a basic , low-cost health-benefits package . 
; now there are 400 , '' says Carolyn Miller , an NFIB lobbyist . 
She contends that similar mandates have driven up insurance costs 20 % in Maryland and 30 % in California . 
`` It just makes healthy businesses subsidize unhealthy ones and gives each employer less incentive to keep his workers healthy . '' 
Mr. Dorsch says the HIAA is working on a proposal to establish a privately funded reinsurance mechanism to help cover small groups that ca n't get insurance without excluding certain employees . 
`` What good is having health insurance , '' she asked , `` when it 's so expensive that it becomes impossible to keep after only one major claim ? 
; at that price , the company has a market value of about $ 278.4 million . 
The company said it amended its shareholder rights plan by reducing to 10 % from 20 % the level of ownership by an outsider that would trigger the issuance to other holders of rights to buy additional shares of Nashua common at half price . 
He estimated the breakup value at $ 55 a share . 
At that price , the company has an indicated value of $ 42.9 million . 
Weisfield 's had about 1.1 million shares outstanding as of July 31 . 
In a June 5 reaction , the Bankers Trust Co. unit proclaimed the economy `` shockproof . '' 
In a July analysis titled `` From Euphoria to Despair , '' W.I. Carr -LRB- Far East -RRB- Ltd. , another securities firm , said that eroding confidence might undermine future economic development . 
Signs of revival seem evident in Hong Kong 's hard-hit hotel sector . 
Waning demand reported by importers , retailers and even fancy restaurants all reinforce a profile of a community that is sharply tightening its belt . 
That paradox is Hong Kong 's economically rewarding yet politically perilous relationship with China . 
China 's land and labor offer inexpensive alternatives to local industry . 
China-bound freight streams through the territory 's port . 
In the decade since the communist nation emerged from isolation , its burgeoning trade with the West has lifted Hong Kong 's status as a regional business center . 
These benefits seem secure despite China 's current economic and political troubles . 
China 's leaders have promised generous liberties for post-1997 Hong Kong . 
That promise sounds shaky now that those same leaders have fallen back on Marxist dogma and brute force to crush their nation 's democracy movement . 
A widely held assumption all along has been that , given its robust economy , Hong Kong will be able to attract sufficient foreign money and talent to comfortably offset the outflows . 
With interest in emigration and investment abroad soaring since June 4 , that assumption no longer seems so safe . 
Only four months have passed since the Beijing massacre , and few are prepared to predict its ultimate impact . 
The only consensus is that more money and people may leave Hong Kong than had been thought likely . 
This expected blow has cast a pall over the economy 's prospects . 
It may experience an upswing or two in between . 
`` Over the next few years , I would advise caution . '' 
The rest are split roughly between optimists who expect Hong Kong to hum along as before and pessimists who foresee irreparable chaos . 
The consensus of this group , which he dubs `` realists , '' is that the local economy will grow through the 1990s at annual rates averaging between 3 % and 5 % . 
Only twice since the 1960s has annual gross domestic product growth here fallen below 5 % for two or more consecutive years . 
The first instance occurred in 1967-68 , when China 's Cultural Revolution triggered bloody street rioting in the colony . 
The other came in 1974-75 from the combined shock of world recession and a severe local stock market crash . 
During the past 10 years , Hong Kong 's economic growth has averaged 8.3 % annually . 
Given Hong Kong 's record , Mr. Mushkat 's `` realists '' might have sounded unduly conservative when the interviews took place two years ago . 
Under the current circumstances , he says , their scenario no longer seems unrealistic . 
It could lose some of its dynamism , '' says Mr. Mushkat , a director of Baring Securities -LRB- Hong Kong -RRB- Ltd. , a unit of Britain 's Barings PLC . `` 
It does n't have to be a disaster . 
It just means that Hong Kong would become a less exciting place . '' 
After taking into account the fallout from the China crisis , the government has projected 1989 GDP growth of 5 % . 
The updated forecast , published Aug. 25 , compares with an earlier forecast of 6 % published March 1 and a 7.4 % rate achieved in 
`` We are n't looking at anything like a doomsday scenario , '' he says . 
One concerns Japanese investors . 
Barely visible on Hong Kong 's property scene in 1985 , by last year Japan had become the top foreign investor , spending $ 602 million . 
The market has grown relatively quiet since the China crisis . 
Even before the China crisis , weak U.S. demand was slowing local economic growth . 
Once external conditions , such as U.S. demand , swing in the territory 's favor , they argue , local businessmen will probably overcome their 1997 worries and continue doing business as usual . 
Many are refugees , having fled China 's unending cycles of political repression and poverty since the Communist Party took power in 1949 . 
In 1987 , Hong Kong 's most prosperous year for a decade , 30,000 left , up 58 % from the previous year . 
Last year , 45,000 went . 
The government predicts that annual outflows will level off over the next few years at as much as 60,000 -- a projection that is widely regarded as unrealistically low . 
A large number of those leaving are managers and professionals . 
While no one professes to know the exact cost of such a `` brain drain '' to the economy , hardly anyone doubts that it poses a threat . 
Trading executives privately say that huge stock-index funds , which dwarf Wall Street firms in terms of the size of their program trades , will continue to launch big programs through the stock market . 
`` They will do it every chance they get , '' said one program-trading executive . 
`` More customers may come to us now , '' said James Cayne , president of Bear Stearns Cos . 
They noted that studies completed after the 1987 crash exonerated program trading as a source of volatility . 
`` The issues that are -LRB- now -RRB- being raised , in classic anti-intellectual fashion , fly in the face of a number of post-crash studies , '' said Fred Grauer , chairman of Wells Fargo Investment Advisers . 
Many money managers who trade stock actively have trouble consistently matching the S&P-500 's returns . 
Last Tuesday , Kemper Corp. 's Kemper Financial Services Inc. unit said it would no longer trade with firms committed to stock-index arbitrage , including the three that later suspended stock-index arbitrage trading on Friday . 
Morgan Stanley has consistently been one of the top stock-index arbitrage traders in recent months . 
`` There is no question that investor confidence -LRB- in the stock market -RRB- is critical . '' 
Current rules permit investors to put up less cash for futures than for stocks . 
These rules , they say , permit faster and cheaper trading in futures than in stocks , which frequently knocks the two markets out of line . 
`` One agency should have the authority over all equity products . 
The latter comes from the perception , on the part of many people in network TV , that their only hope of keeping viewers from defecting to cable is to fill the airwaves with an increasingly raw sensationalism . 
Put these together , and you get programs about rape . 
This tale of a Chicago policewoman returning home to find the man who raped her 20 years earlier is supposed to be set in the Ozarks . But it 's more like an illustration of what Ben Stein describes in his study of social attitudes in the TV industry : `` Fear of violence and animosity ... because of race or religion , fear and lack of comprehension about the politics of small-town people ... produce a powerful wave of dislike of small towns in the minds of TV writers and producers . '' 
He quotes one student saying , `` You 're just the kind of Jewboy we Southerners ca n't stand . 
'' Mr. Sohmer confesses that it was partly in response to such attitudes that he is now `` a dweller on one of the two islands off the coast of America . '' 
Of all the unflattering portraits of small-town America I 've seen on TV , this film is the most gratuitously nasty . 
The sole sympathetic character is the prodigal daughter Kate -LRB- Jaclyn Smith -RRB- , and she is tolerable only by virtue of having nothing in common with her kinfolk , a truly benighted pack of Southern Protestants whose grim existence consists mostly of growing peaches and repressing sex . 
Her Pa -LRB- Howard Duff -RRB- is the kind of guy who , while saying grace at the supper table , pauses at the word `` sin '' and glares at the daughter he has n't seen for two decades , because he knows in his heart that she enjoyed what happened in the cold-storage room , and has been indulging the same taste ever since in the fleshpots of Chicago . 
Every man Kate encounters is either sniggeringly puritanical , viciously patronizing , revoltingly lecherous , or all three . 
Add the fact that any one of them , including Pa , could be her attacker , and you have a setting that does n't resemble small-town America , or even Hollywood 's nightmare of small-town America , so much as a paranoid feminist dystopia like Margaret Atwood 's `` The Handmaid 's Tale , '' itself soon to be -LRB- you guessed it -RRB- a Hollywood movie . 
How could he be ? 
He 's the director of the local Planned Parenthood chapter . 
As for Lincoln , if you ca n't guess why he 's so sweet to his sister when everybody else hates her , then I 'm not going to tell you . 
Kate 's Ma -LRB- Louise Latham -RRB- is a moral coward . 
Her sister-in-law -LRB- Amy Wright -RRB- is a sniveling prude afraid that Kate will seduce all the married men in town , including a particularly loathsome fellow named Tucker , whose idea of fun is to leave his wife at home tending to her bruises and cigarette burns , while he bullies Kate into a dance that consists of drooling on her while trying to break her ribs . 
At the very least , it would appear that Sis is a poor judge of masculine charm . 
Take the scene in which Kate stands naked by a lighted window , whispering to her hidden assailant , `` Look all you want . Starting tomorrow , I 'm stalking you . 
With friends like Mr. Sohmer , do the feminists of Hollywood need enemies ? 
He added that final guidelines to be published in early November will determine whether the bank is in compliance . 
It would n't identify the bankers . 
A major factor in the third-quarter loss was the write-down of $ 143.6 million of goodwill . 
Crossland recorded an additional $ 20 million in loan loss reserves in the third quarter . 
Third-quarter loan originations dropped sharply to $ 663 million from $ 1 billion a year ago . 
About $ 518 million of debt is affected . 
Is he a victim of Gramm-Rudman cuts ? 
`` Homeroom , '' a show about a black ad executive who gives up the boardroom for a fourth-grade classroom , is flunking the ratings test . 
By wooing a core black audience they figure they might keep the show alive at least until the spring semester . 
It just is n't done . 
I want people in the barber shops and the beauty shops and standing in line at the rib joints to be talking about the show . 
I want white America to talk about it , too , but I 'm convinced that the grapevine is what 's happening . '' 
It 's a matter of being close to those suppliers ; many of those companies do n't know us as well as they should . '' 
; many of those companies do n't know us as well as they should . '' 
That includes all the gas consumed in Ontario and Quebec , along with the bulk of Canadian gas exports to the 
Since the cost of transporting gas is so important to producers ' ability to sell it , it helps to have input and access to transportation companies . '' 
All 700 Toronto-based employees will be offered positions in Calgary , the company said . 
During the four-day promotion , shoppers at the Short Hills , N.J. , store lined up to pay for big-ticket items like coats and suits . 
Departing from its newspaper ads featuring prim sketches of a suit or a coat , Brooks Brothers is marketing an updated image in a new campaign that carries the slogan , `` The Surprise of Brooks Brothers . '' 
One color photo displays a rainbow of dress shirts tied in a knot ; another picture shows neckties with bold designs . 
The message is loud and clear : This is not your father 's Brooks Brothers . 
One ad shows a bright red jacket paired with a black leather skirt . 
`` We have men who only buy their shirts and underwear here or younger customers who only buy their -LCB- job -RCB- interview suit here , '' says William Roberti , chairman and chief executive officer of Brooks Brothers . `` 
We want them to buy more of their wardrobe here . '' 
Mr. Roberti concedes that since the $ 750 million takeover , `` sales growth has n't been dramatic . '' 
For the 11 months ended March 31 , operating profit at the 52-store chain totaled $ 40.5 million on sales of $ 286.8 million . 
Many clothiers , especially Ralph Lauren , have cashed in on the recent popularity of updated Ivy League and English styles . 
In keeping with men 's broader fashion scope today , businessmen are dabbling in English and Italian suits that are conservative but not stodgy . 
If it promotes fashion too much , the shop risks alienating its old-line customers ; by emphasizing `` value , '' it risks watering down its high-minded mystique . 
; by emphasizing `` value , '' it risks watering down its high-minded mystique . 
Brooks Brothers ' aim is for 20 % of total sales to come from the women 's department , up from the current 12 % . 
`` For women , dressing for success in a real structured way is over . '' 
Marks & Spencer plans to open roughly 18 more U.S. stores in the next five years . 
Brooks Brothers says business is robust at its 30 outlets in Japan and two shops in Hong Kong . 
Wednesday , it will unveil a $ 7 million refurbishing at its flagship store on Madison Avenue . 
With newly installed escalators , the store retains its signature wood-and-brass look but is less intimidating . 
More shirts and sweaters will be laid out on tables , instead of sitting behind glass cases , so that customers can `` walk up and touch them , '' Mr. Roberti says . 
The entire second floor of its Madison Avenue store is now casual sportswear featuring items such as ski sweaters , leather backpacks and a $ 42 wool baseball hat with the store 's crest . 
`` The perception out there is that we are very conservative and we only sell one type of suit , '' Mr. Roberti says , referring to Brooks Brothers ' signature three-button `` sack suit , '' with a center-vented jacket and boxy fit . 
Next spring , nearly 30 % of its suits will have pleated pants , compared with virtually none a couple of years ago . 
The maker of chemical and industrial materials did n't say how much it would pay or when it would make the transactions . 
In the TVS statement , Mr. Price said `` leaving MTM was a very difficult decision , '' but added that `` it is now time for a change ... . '' 
At the time , Mr. Gatward said his friendship with Mr. Price had smoothed the way for its link with the small British company . 
; he eliminated three departments and fired six executives , according to the TVS spokesman . 
Further staff cuts are likely , the spokesman indicated . 
`` Obviously , we are looking at making economies across the board . '' 
The market for reruns sold to local U.S. broadcasters has been weak for the past three or four seasons . 
At the close of business Thursday , Ciba-Geigy and Chiron said 11,580 common shares had been tendered to their offer . 
At last report , Connaught had 21.8 million shares outstanding . 
Until then , Conseco said the stock remains convertible into common stock at the rate of 1.439 shares of common stock for each share of preferred stock , which is equivalent to a conversion price of $ 17.50 a common share . 
Hundreds of smaller creditors could get nothing , according to attorneys involved . 
Under Chapter 11 of the Federal Bankruptcy Code , a company continues to operate under protection from creditors ' lawsuits while it works out a plan to pay its debts . 
Under Chapter 7 , the assets of a company are sold off to pay creditors . 
Despite long private sessions in both New York and Dallas , the two sides ended the week `` 6,000 miles and many dollars apart , '' according to attorney Hugh Ray , who represents Manufacturers Hanover . 
A reorganization plan proposed jointly by the IRS and Manufacturers Hanover was stalled by a negative vote from Minpeco . 
The mineral concern 's own reorganization plan met a similar fate after opposition from the IRS and Manufacturers Hanover . 
The two sides have been far apart on how much Herbert Hunt will continue to owe the government after his assets are sold . 
The unit has 30 employees in four California offices , the company said . 
Because of tax-loss carry-forward , Leucadia said it expects to escape taxes on `` a substantial portion of the gain . '' 
; last Monday , the company had nearly 73 million shares outstanding . 
Dow Jones said it extended the offer to allow shareholders time to review a supplement to the Dow Jones tender offer circular that it mailed last Friday . 
In the tender offer supplement , Dow Jones discloses the different growth forecasts but says it views the 20 % growth rate `` as a hoped-for goal '' of Telerate 's management `` and not as a realistic basis on which to project the company 's likely future performance . '' 
Dow Jones shares also fell 50 cents to close at $ 36.125 in Big Board composite trading . 
Dow Jones , which owns 67 % of Telerate , publishes The Wall Street Journal , Barron 's magazine , community newspapers and operates financial news services and computer data bases . 
Roger L. Sutton , executive vice president , was appointed as the new president and chief operating officer . 
Kerry P. Charlet will become executive vice president , and retain his positions as chief financial officer and treasurer . 
Concord New Horizons Corp. , creators of a 1988 movie called Nam Angels , used the gang 's name and trademarks without authorization , the not-for-profit corporation says in a complaint filed in federal court . 
`` Portrayal of our members as disloyal to each other is totally contrary to the most important values of our organization -- loyalty and trust . '' 
Both of these actions are n't characteristic of real Hells Angels , Mr. Christie said . 
It is the opinion of Timothy Good , author of `` Above Top Secret : The World UFO Cover-Up '' -LRB- Quill\/William Morrow , 592 pages , $ 12.95 -RRB- , that the world laughs too fast . 
One photo shows a woman sporting a scar she says was made by a laser beam -LRB- a low-caliber weapon , from the looks of the wound -RRB- . 
Mr. Good devotes much serious space to the events of Feb. 25 , 1942 , when American gunners spotted strange lights in the sky above Los Angeles . 
Air-raid sirens sounded the alarm at 2:25 a.m. , summoning 12,000 air wardens to duty . 
Soon all hell broke loose . 
The sky filled with 12.8-pound shells , several of which fell back to Earth , destroying homes and buildings . 
When the smoke cleared , six people were dead -LRB- three from heart attacks -RRB- , and everyone wondered what in the world they were shooting at . 
One thing 's for sure : There have been a ton of them , and greater beings than the editors of the National Enquirer have shown interest . 
Gerald Ford , a fairly down-to-earth fellow , once sent a letter to the chairman of the Armed Services Committee recommending that `` there be a committee investigation of the UFO phenomenon . 
I think we owe it to the American people to establish credibility regarding UFOs and to produce the greatest possible enlightenment on the subject . '' 
I am convinced that UFOs exist because I have seen one ... . '' 
It still does n't look like governments are coughing up everything they know . 
Now why , you have to ask yourself , would intelligent beings haul a bunch of rocks around the universe ? 
In a 1961 incident , a Soviet mail plane disappeared off the radar screen just after radioing its position to ground control in Sverdlovsk . 
A search party soon found the unscathed aircraft in a forest clearing much too small to have allowed a conventional landing . 
What 's more , the seven mail personnel aboard were missing . 
Maybe some of our talk-show hosts and anchors have already been taken over ? 
The point of this 1955 novel , which spawned two movies , is that the soulless pod people replicated by alien plants are virtually indistinguishable from human folks . 
Mr. Strieber knows a lot about aliens . 
He even had sex with one -- sort of , and not intentionally -- as readers learned in his `` Communion '' -LRB- a book recently described in the New York Times as a `` nonfiction best seller '' -RRB- . 
The apparent crash became top secret , and the alien creatures went away upset with the rude ways of human beings . 
We lost our chance to communicate with sweet-natured visitors `` about four feet tall -LCB- who -RCB- looked as though they were made of puffed-up marshmallow . '' 
Investment analysts generally agree . 
During the same period , the company has sold about 1.6 billion guilders of assets . 
`` We have definitely become less cyclical , '' Syb Bergsma , executive vice president-finance , said in an interview . 
Mr. Bergsma said prices for U.S. pharmaceutical companies remain too high , making it unlikely that Akzo will pursue any major acquisitions in that area . 
He figures Akzo is likely to be one of the few major chemical companies to show profit growth next year . 
The bank projects Akzo will show per-share earnings of 24 guilders in 1990 , up from an estimated 22.5 guilders for this year and the 20.9 guilders reported for 1988 . 
Although bulk-chemical prices have begun falling in the U.S. , they are generally stable in Europe , Mr. Bergsma said . 
A decline may come in the first half of 1990 , he said , but the market does n't appear on the verge of a severe downturn . 
Akzo 's biggest move in this area was the 1987 acquisition of Stauffer Chemical Co. 's specialty chemical business for $ 625 million . 
Sales growth of 10 % a year seems possible , he said , and Akzo expects its Twaron business to become profitable in 1990 . 
Mr. Bergsma said Akzo is likely to see strong profit growth from coatings as it realizes cost savings and other benefits from its greater scale . 
Mr. Bergsma said Akzo hopes to have approval to sell its Marvelon pill in the U.S. in 1992 . 
He is a politician with the courage of true conviction , as in summarily sacking exchange controls and in particular slashing the top rate of income taxation to 40 % . 
The Fleet Street reaction was captured in the Guardian headline , `` Departure Reveals Thatcher Poison . '' 
So far as we can see only two persons are behaving with a dignity recognizing the seriousness of the issues : Mr. Lawson and Sir Alan Walters , the counterpoint of the Chancellor 's difficulties , who also resigned as personal adviser to Mrs. Thatcher . 
There are the strict monetarists , who believe that floating exchange rates free an economy to stabilize its price level by stabilizing the monetary aggregates . 
There are the supply-side globalists , who seek to spread the advantages of a common currency through fixed exchange rates . 
He not only slashed marginal tax rates , initially sparking fresh growth in Britain , but he wanted to regulate monetary policy by targeting exchange rates , indeed joining the European Monetary System . 
While no doubt agreeing with Mr. Lawson on everything else , Sir Alan is a dyed-in-the-wool monetarist , inclined to defend floating rates to the death . 
They increased the after-tax rate of return and made Britain a far more attractive place to invest , producing sudden capital inflows . 
By accounting definitions , this had to produce a sudden trade deficit . 
To push the pound even lower trying to cure the trade deficit , a policy Britain has repeatedly proved disastrous . 
Mr. Lawson , though not allowed to join the EMS , chose to `` shadow '' the deutsche mark . 
He reaped inflation along with rapid growth , no doubt validating Sir Alan 's predictions in the Prime Minister 's mind . 
We had been soliciting opinions on it long before Mr. Lawson 's resignation , and offer some of the collection for the benefit of his successor and one-time deputy , John Major . 
To begin with , we should note that in contrast to the U.S. deficit , Britain has been running largish budget surpluses . 
Unlike the U.S. , Britain never achieved even a momentary reduction in real wages . 
The wage stickiness , which OECD studies confirm is particularly high in Britain , gives its economy a structural bias toward inflation . 
Inflation is easier to spark and harder to control . 
We recall that Mr. Roberts not only chides the Chancellor for being too easy because of a desire to constrain sterling , but also led the chorus saying that Mr. Volcker was too tight when he let the dollar rise . 
Somewhere in between there must be a golden mean , perhaps measured by M-Whatever , but perhaps measured by purchasing power parity . 
For that matter , perhaps he fixed to the wrong currency . 
We sympathize with Mrs. Thatcher 's reluctance to tie her currency to one governed by the domestic political imperatives of West Germany . 
Perhaps the shock would have been less if they 'd fixed to another low-tax , deregulated , supply-side economy . 
Those who can shake Keynesian ghosts out of their heads might recognize that the retirement of gilts for cash is equivalent to an expansionary open-market operation , indeed , it is the definition of an open market operation to expand the money supply . 
; it is an open announcement that the exchange rate target has no credibility . 
All the more so when strong voices are heard opposing the policy . 
Better to have a true monetarist policy , just for the experience . 
They confront stubborn inflation and a sagging economy , that is to say , stagflation . 
This can not be solved by provoking a further downturn ; reducing the supply of goods does not solve inflation . 
; reducing the supply of goods does not solve inflation . 
Our advice is this : Immediately return the government surpluses to the economy through incentive-maximizing tax cuts , and find some monetary policy target that balances both supply and demand for money -LRB- which neither aggregates nor interest rates can do -RRB- . 
This was the version of supply-side economics that , in the late 1970s and early '80s , worked in America and world-wide to solve a far more serious stagflation than afflicts Britain today . 
Ogilvy under the fastidious Mr. Roman gained a reputation as occasionally being high-handed in its treatment of clients , of preaching what strategy a client should -- indeed , must -- follow . 
The two men are planning joint visits to a number of clients to attempt to smoothly hand over the reins . 
`` Clients want to see more of our senior people involved in the business -- not once a month , but two or three times a week , '' he said . 
`` There is little or no integration of our work , quality is spotty , there is no single focus , '' Mr. Phillips complained to staffers in March , when the reorganization was announced . 
He is n't as well-known to clients as is Mr. Roman . 
Under his watch , office politicking was often rampant in the agency 's New York operation and the office there has had a dismal new-business record for more than a year . 
As Mr. Dougherty says , `` The last thing they need is enormous disruption at the top ... and Graham is obviously a long-term member of the Ogilvy Mafia , as we call it . '' 
The move , budgeted at about $ 7 million , actually came in at about $ 10 million , he said . 
Ogilvy eliminated the mail room staff , closed the executive dining room and , after the takeover , let go half a dozen financial executives . 
WPP , which assumes financial control of its businesses in a hands-on way , instituted a new financial system and plans to sublet some floors in Ogilvy 's new headquarters building to outsiders . 
`` The fact that he is in the process of defending himself against the present charges could conceivably have an adverse impact on Y&R , '' Mr. Kroll wrote . 
He said Mr. Klein will return to his post at the end of the trial `` at which he will be vindicated . '' 
She said it was too early to say what would happen to its clients , including Reebok and Apple . 
As previously reported , the account is troubled , with Philip Morris asking Backer Spielvogel Bates , Ogilvy & Mather , and possibly others to try their hand at developing new creative work . 
The loss in the fourth quarter of 1988 reflected in part expenses for an unsuccessful bid for Federated Department Stores Inc. , as well as the restructuring of some of its department store operations . 
Sales for both years reflect 12-month performances for each year of I. Magnin , Bullock 's , and Bullocks Wilshire . 
Excluding those businesses , earnings before interest , taxes and depreciation for 1988 would have been $ 728.5 million . 
This includes $ 4.6 billion of long-term debt , $ 457.5 million in short-term debt , and $ 95.7 million of the current portion of long-term debt . 
While our competitors are concerned with their financial viability and possible ownership changes , we will be concentrating on buying and selling merchandise our customers need and want . '' 
Other retail properties for sale include Saks Fifth Avenue and Marshall Field , retailers now owned by B.A.T PLC , the British tobacco conglomerate . 
Roughly $ 2 billion of that debt has already been repaid from previous asset sales , and RJR expects to use another $ 2 billion from the pending , two-part sale of most of its Del Monte unit . 
Since KKR bought RJR in February for $ 25 billion of debt , it has agreed to sell nearly $ 5 billion of RJR assets . 
`` RJR Nabisco and Planters LifeSavers will concentrate more on our own core businesses , '' Mr. Gerstner said Friday . 
Nestle 's share of 7 % before Friday 's purchases is far below the shares of market leaders Hershey Foods Corp. and Mars Inc. , which have about 40 % and 36 % of the market , respectively . 
`` For them , it makes all kinds of sense . 
They 've been given a mandate from Switzerland '' to expand their U.S. chocolate operations . 
Last year catastrophe losses totaled $ 5 million , when net was $ 235.5 million , or $ 2.07 a share . 
Profit for its commercial insurance division fell 30 % to $ 59 million , reflecting higher catastrophe losses and the price war in the property\/casualty market for nearly three years . 
Here were more than 70,000 ANC supporters , gathering for the first ANC rally inside South Africa since the black liberation movement was banned in 1960 . 
Here was the state security appartus poised to pounce on any words or acts of provocation , let alone revolution . 
`` We stand for peace today and we will stand for peace tomorrow , '' said Walter Sisulu , the ANC 's former secretary general who , along with five of his colleagues , served 26 years in prison before being released two weeks ago . 
Some members of the huge crowd shouted `` Viva peace , viva . '' 
The government and the ANC , the bitterest of enemies , are engaged in an elaborate mating dance designed to entice each other to the negotiating table . 
Pretoria releases the ANC leaders , most of whom were serving life sentences , and allows them to speak freely , hoping that the ANC will abandon its use of violence . 
The ANC leaders speak in tones of moderation , emphasizing discipline , hoping the government will be encouraged to take further steps , such as freeing Nelson Mandela , the most prominent ANC figure , and unbanning the organization . 
Six months ago , government approval for an ANC rally was inconceivable . 
Equally inconceivable is that the ANC , given the chance to hold a rally , would extend a hand , albeit warily , to the government . 
In a message read out at the rally , exiled ANC President Oliver Tambo , who ca n't legally be quoted in South Africa , said the country was at a crossroads and that Mr. de Klerk `` may yet earn a place among the peacemakers of our country '' if he chooses a `` path of genuine political settlement . '' 
Speakers yesterday called on foreign governments to increase sanctions against Pretoria and urged supporters inside the country to continue defying emergency restrictions and racial segregation , known as apartheid . 
`` We can not wait on the government to make changes at its own pace , '' Mr. Sisulu said . 
They both called it a `` welcome home '' gathering . 
Behind them was a huge ANC flag and an even bigger sign that said `` ANC Lives , ANC Leads . '' 
Next to them was the red flag of the outlawed South African Communist Party , which has long been an ANC ally . 
In the stands , people waved ANC flags , wore ANC T-shirts , sang ANC songs and chanted ANC slogans . 
To date , we see no clear indication that the government is serious about negotiations . 
All their utterances are vague . '' 
Most are from independent producers instead of regulated utilities , and Westinghouse believes it will ride a wave of demand stretching over the next six years . 
`` Westinghouse 's earnings could be materially enhanced in the mid-1990s or sooner , '' says Russell L. Leavitt , of Salomon Brothers Inc . 
The company expects a need for 140,000 megawatts of new generation in the U.S. over the next decade . 
Already this year , it has received orders for four 150-megawatt advanced combustion turbines from Florida Power & Light Co. and for two 300-megawatt plants from Intercontinental Energy Corp. , among others . 
In the past , the company usually took token equity positions in power plants it supplied as a `` kicker '' to close deals . 
Under the agreement , Westinghouse will be able to purchase smaller combustion turbines from its Japanese partner , and package and sell them with its own generators and other equipment . 
Westinghouse carefully crafted the agreement because the Justice Department earlier this year successfully challenged a proposed steam turbine joint venture with Asea Brown Boveri . 
Westinghouse expects about half of its new orders for turbines to come from independent producers for at least the next six years . 
The company already is gearing up for a renaissance of nuclear power even though it has n't received an order for a domestic nuclear plant in a decade . 
John C. Marous , chairman and chief executive officer , says he expects a commercial order by 1995 for the company 's AP600 nuclear power plant , which is under development . 
`` Once we see an order , we expect it 'll be on line by 2000 . 
A quake that measures two on the Richter is n't twice as severe as a `` one '' -- it 's 10 times worse . 
A `` three '' is 10 times 10 again , and so on . 
That put the `` seven '' of Oct. 17 in perspective for me . 
Think I 'll buy one of those `` I Survived '' T-shirts after all . 
The boys with the white elephants on their sleeves might not have made the earth move much , but they certainly did some impressive things with baseballs . 
Combined with their two pre-quake victories , way back on Oct. 14 and 15 -LRB- the scores were 5-0 and 5-1 , remember ? -RRB- , that gave them a sweep of the best-of-seven series . 
That 's geologically correct , but a trifle unfair otherwise . 
They showed up , but did n't -- or could n't -- challenge . 
That came in the seventh inning of Game Four when , trailing 8-2 , they scored four times and brought their big heat -- Will Clark and Kevin Mitchell -- to the plate with one out and a runner on . 
`` I told him to make Mitchell reach for everything , and that 's what we did . 
The ball he hit was n't a strike . 
If it had been , he mighta hit it out . '' 
The best team won this Series , which is more unusual than it may sound . 
Baseball ai n't football , where the good teams beat up on the bad ones . 
The best baseball teams win six of 10 games and the worst win four of 10 . 
Without becoming overly contentious , allow me to suggest that several recent champions of the world according to us -LRB- as in U.S. -RRB- might not have ranked No. 1 in many polls . 
That list includes last season 's champs , the Los Angeles Dodgers , who rode a miracle home run by Kirk Gibson and two faultless pitching performances by Orel Hershiser to a five-game triumph over a bewitched , bothered Oakland crew . 
They led the Major Leagues in regular-season wins with 99 and flattened the Toronto Blue Jays four games to one for the American League pennant before stomping their cross-bay rivals . 
The pithiest testimony to their domination of the just-concluded tournament came from Giants ' manager Roger Craig after his team had fallen in Game Three to a five-home-run barrage that tied a 61-year-old Series record . 
Asked what he would do differently on the morrow , Craig allowed that he might play his outfielders deeper , `` maybe on the other side of the fence . '' 
Their 85 total bases broke a record for a four-game set , and their nine home runs tied one . 
Eight Oakland players hit homers , with centerfielder Dave Henderson getting two , both on Friday . 
Rickey Henderson , the do-everything leadoff man , had nine hits and set or tied four-game Series marks for triples -LRB- 2 -RRB- and stolen bases -LRB- 3 -RRB- . 
`` Think I 'll redo my image -- get this changed to a glove , '' quipped the big first baseman Saturday night , fingering the gold bat he wears on a neck chain . 
He shut out the Giants on five hits in Game One , and allowed three runs on five hits in seven innings Friday after the 12-day break caused by the earthquake . 
One was that , despite his 62 regular-season wins over the past three seasons in the Land Beyond the Late News , he has been overshadowed by his more-muscular mates and missed out on prizes that might have been his due . 
The other is that he 's an Oakland native , and lifted residents ' spirits by his visits to quake-hit areas last week . 
`` Give me four or five more Series with these guys , and I do n't care if I ever win a Cy Young , '' he said , in reference to baseball 's best-pitcher award . 
`` People change , teams change , '' he cautioned . 
`` It 's easier to get worse than better in this game . '' 
It was widely predicted that free agency would allow the glamorous , `` big market '' teams to monopolize the best talent , but quite the opposite has occurred : Twelve different clubs have won titles in the 14 seasons since its advent . 
The number includes such unstylish burgs as , well , Oakland . 
Speed is a component of quality -- one of the things we must deliver to satisfy customers . '' 
Managers learn to spot opportunities to increase customer satisfaction through speed , and shift some responsibility for analyzing , improving and streamlining work processes from themselves to teams of employees . 
Every morning , tractor-trailer trucks arrive at the Natick Ground Station from Boston 's Logan Airport , carrying the day 's package load . In peak periods that load may include 4,000 pieces . The packages must be sorted quickly and distributed to smaller vans for delivery , so couriers can be on the road by 8:35 . 
In peak periods that load may include 4,000 pieces . 
The packages must be sorted quickly and distributed to smaller vans for delivery , so couriers can be on the road by 8:35 . 
No customer is present at the morning package sort , but the process is nevertheless critical to customer satisfaction . 
`` The sooner our vans hit the road each morning , the easier it is for us to fulfill that obligation . '' 
`` We used the data to redesign our sorting system and put our resources where they could do the most good . '' 
The team even created a points system to identify those couriers and subgroups that were doing the most to reduce package-sort cycle time . 
Winners of the friendly competition earn a steak dinner out with their spouses . 
`` The vans leave at least 15 minutes earlier , on average , than they used to . 
`` We cleared up questions and inconsistencies very quickly , because the people who had the skills and perspective required to resolve them were part of the task team , '' Mr. Anton explains . 
`` The team eliminated the crisis mentality that proposal deadlines can generate . 
The result was a more thoughtful , complete and competitive proposal , '' Mr. Anton concludes . 
Managers in all three companies recognize speed as a component of quality and a key to customer satisfaction . 
They effectively lead team efforts to reduce cycle time . 
That finding , the report says , casts doubt on the record industry 's contention that the new generation of digital recording equipment will inevitably lead to wholesale abuse of copyrighted material by home tapers . 
`` What -LCB- the report -RCB- shows is everything we 've been saying for the past eight or nine years -- that audio taping is the best thing to happen for the recording industry . 
The people who tape the most buy the most . '' 
A survey contained in the 291-page report , `` Copyright and Home Copying : Technology Challenges the Law , '' found that most people consider home copying for such personal use a `` right '' -- a right , moreover , that was exercised by 40 % of Americans over the age of 10 in the past year . 
Werner K. Rey believes fortunes are made by being friendly . 
He achieved this in part with an uncanny talent for getting his foot peacefully in the door of established European companies . 
Mr. Rey bought a controlling stake in Inspectorate for 18 million Swiss francs in 1982 , building up the little-known engineering company with European and U.S. acquisitions . 
In the corner of his reception room is a delicate antique desk piled high with dossiers . 
There is a small Renoir on the wall . 
Writes Bilanz : `` No one in Switzerland ever came so far so fast ... 
He was simply the first in this country to realize that treasures were just lying around waiting to be picked up . 
Looking into Bally , he could hardly believe what he saw : a company with enormous real-estate holdings in major European cities and a market capitalization of 28 million Swiss francs ; it had 7,000 employees . 
; it had 7,000 employees . 
Eventually , Mr. Rey was forced to sell his Bally shares to the weapons maker Oerlikon-Buehrle Holding AG as establishment pressure grew on this hostile move into the Swiss old boys ' network . 
`` Bally was not an unfriendly takeover , '' he insists . 
Buying from willing shareholders makes an unfriendly takeover impossible , Mr. Rey contends . 
`` I bought from willing shareholders . '' 
With the nonferrous metals business undermined in Switzerland by tough foreign competition and high domestic costs , this looked like a dull undertaking . 
; the increased efficiency has perked up the industry . 
They renamed it Swiss Cantobank and are using it to expand abroad . 
In 1987 , Mr. Rey bested leading publishing houses to take over Switzerland 's Jean Frey AG , a major producer of magazines and newspapers . 
Sulzer preferred him to financier Tito Tettamanti , whose secretive raid on the company 's stock had led to a bitter battle . 
`` Companies move in and out , '' says Helga Kern of KK Swiss Investment . 
In August , Omni unexpectedly bought Inspectorate 's 80 % stake in Harpener AG of West Germany , a land-rich company . 
The internal transaction within the Rey empire puzzled Harpener 's small shareholders , but analysts say it makes sense for Inspectorate-Adia to focus on its main businesses of product inspection and temporary help . 
He explains that companies with real estate give `` security . '' 
The real estate can be used , he points out , as guarantees for bank loans for corporate development . 
`` I do n't want to be like -LCB- financier Alan -RCB- Bond and the other Australians . 
I do n't want companies to be built around me as a person . 
I want them to stand alone . 
The two sides were scheduled to meet with the mediator this morning . 
Boeing has said repeatedly it wo n't expand its offer and the machinists have responded that the offer is n't good enough . 
About 1,000 strikers signed petitions last week calling for Boeing and Machinists representatives to schedule new meetings . 
In May , the company consolidated its Aerospace and Electronics groups ; the new Defense and Space Group will contain the Aerospace and Electronics division and Advanced Systems , both based in the Seattle area ; Boeing Helicopters in Philadelphia ; Boeing Military Airplanes in Wichita , Kan. , and ArgoSystems in Sunnyvale , Calif . 
All of the changes will reduce its overhead and streamline operations , Boeing said . 
`` It 's a further step to better returns in the hemorrhaging defense business , '' said Steven Binder , an analyst with Bear , Stearns & Co. in New York . 
`` They had to do it . '' 
`` His side of the business has been successful in a tough environment , '' Mr. Rubel said . 
For several years some European countries have complained that outdated Cocom lists and restrictions served more to hamper their trade than to add to Western security . 
They added that `` all of us -LRB- Cocom members -RRB- look at the changes in Hungary and Poland in a positive way , but a question of this scope deserves further discussion and study . '' 
The officials said the meeting agreed to continue working toward `` streamlining '' Cocom 's restricted products list , and to improve procedures for punishing companies that do n't comply with the export restrictions . 
The officials said this meeting `` put in motion '' procedural steps that would speed up both of these functions , but that no specific decisions were taken on either matter . 
Just clobbered , '' said Ulric Weil , an analyst at Weil & Associates who had once been high on the company . 
`` The quarter was terrible , and the future looks anything but encouraging . '' 
On top of that , the Blue Bell , Pa. , concern took a $ 230 million charge related to the layoffs of 8,000 employees . 
Unisys said that should help it save $ 500 million a year in costs , again at the high end of the previously reported range of $ 400 million to $ 500 million . 
That would be a huge problem if it were to continue , because Unisys is betting its business on the assumption that customers want to move away from using operating systems that run on only one manufacturer 's equipment and toward systems -- mainly Unix -- that work on almost anyone 's machines . 
Debt has risen to around $ 4 billion , or about 50 % of total capitalization . 
That means Unisys must pay about $ 100 million in interest every quarter , on top of $ 27 million in dividends on preferred stock . 
He said the strength of the world-wide economy is suspect , and does n't see much revenue growth in the cards . 
He said the move toward standard operating systems means customers are n't locked into buying from their traditional computer supplier and can force prices down . 
That , he said , is why Unisys is overhauling its whole business : It needs to prepare for a world in which profit margins will be lower than computer companies have been used to . 
`` The information-systems industry is still going to be a high-growth business , and we 're confident that we have tremendous assets as a company . But we do n't minimize the challenges of the near term . '' 
Some had predicted earnings of more than $ 4 a share for this year , up from last year 's fully diluted $ 3.27 a share on earnings of $ 680.6 million . 
`` I was feeling like I was too high to begin with , '' he said . 
`` The break-even point for next year is much lower , but is it low enough ? '' he asked . 
The chief economist of Merrill Lynch & Co. finds himself in such a position as he buzzes the Midwest on his first road trip since backpedaling on a major prediction . 
Since the last time he traveled this way several months ago , he has recanted a series of bold forecasts of a recession . 
It said long-term interest rates , then above 9 % , could drop to 7 % by the end of 1989 , so bonds , which benefit from falling rates , would be a good buy . 
He softened the talk about a recession . 
Mr. Bostian said in August that his macroeconomic index signaled recession . 
Mr. Shilling , who was Merrill Lynch 's chief economist from 1967 to 1971 , has heralded a recession for months . 
`` My own personal opinion is that Don threw in the towel just about the time he should have doubled his bet , '' he says . 
He adds , `` That 's the forecasting business . '' 
Pestered by bosses , brokers , clients and media people and pushed by their own egos , Wall Street economists are forecasting about everything from broad economic trends to the dinkiest monthly indicator . 
This is the commercial version . 
No sophisticated professional expects economists to be right all the time . 
Some smaller clients do n't seem to notice his switch . 
A good half-hour into breakfast at the Palmer House , Mr. O'Brien looks up from his plate after Mr. Straszheim says something about people who believe interest rates are about to nosedive . 
`` I 'm one of them who hope they will , with $ 6 billion in debt on the books . 
He does n't fully succeed , although Mr. Straszheim lists an array of interest-rate scenarios . 
Alfred Harrison , the manager , shoves Mr. Straszheim 's handout back at him : `` Do we want to go through this ? 
We could still have a recession '' at some point . 
One of Mr. Straszheim 's recurring themes is that the state of the economy is n't a simple black or white . 
Sometimes , like now , it 's gray . 
`` We 're not running that ad campaign any more , '' Mr. Straszheim snaps in a rare show of irritation . 
He adds , `` I think it was a fairly decent call . '' 
He says the economy , and especially the employment numbers , look much better than he expected ; interest rates have generally declined ; inflation has n't run amok . 
`` Our business is constantly looking at all these things , '' he says . 
`` There 's unbelievable pressure on economists to forecast these numbers , '' he says . `` 
You make a forecast , and then you become its prisoner . '' 
His approach to the recantation is direct but low-key . 
`` For some time , we had forecast negative third - and fourth-quarter growth . We pulled that forecast , '' he begins matter-of-factly in a meeting with Piper , Jaffray & Hopwood Inc. officials in Minneapolis , the first stop . 
We pulled that forecast , '' he begins matter-of-factly in a meeting with Piper , Jaffray & Hopwood Inc. officials in Minneapolis , the first stop . 
In New York Stock Exchange composite trading Friday , Milton Roy shares leaped $ 2 , to $ 18.375 each , while Crane sank $ 1.125 , to $ 21.125 a share . 
Milton Roy disclosed in May that it was approached for a possible acquisition by Thermo Electron , which agreed to purchase Milton Roy 's liquid-chromatography line for $ 22 million in February . 
Thermo Electron acquired some 6 % of Milton Roy 's common stock before throwing in the towel and reducing its stake in early September . 
It has n't made merger overtures to the board . 
The Chancellor of the Exchequer , Nigel Lawson , resigned because Prime Minister Thatcher would not fire her trusted adviser Sir Alan Walters . 
The opposition Labor Party leader , Neil Kinnock , in a display of the male chauvinism typical of the British lower class , denounced Mrs. Thatcher for having an independent mind and refusing to heed the men in her Cabinet . 
The British press , making a mountain out of a molehill , precipitated an unnecessary economic crisis by portraying Mrs. Thatcher as an autocrat who had thrown economic policy into confusion by driving a respected figure from her government . 
Mr. Lawson and his European-minded colleagues want the British pound formally tied to the West German mark . Sir Alan considers this an ill-advised and costly policy . 
Sir Alan considers this an ill-advised and costly policy . 
When Mrs. Thatcher cut the top tax rate to 40 % , Mr. Lawson flooded the country with money to prevent the pound from rising against the mark . 
To keep the exchange rate pegged , Mr. Lawson tightened monetary policy and pushed interest rates up to 15 % . 
This doubled the mortgage interest rates of the many new homeowners that Mrs. Thatcher 's policies had created , producing widespread disaffection and pushing Labor ahead in the polls . 
This put Mrs. Thatcher in a bind . 
The concept of European integration is one of those grand schemes that appeal to intellectuals , the media and the imagination , but are full of practical pitfalls . 
The reason is simple . When a country cuts tax rates , it makes itself more attractive to investors and drives up the value of its currency . 
When a country cuts tax rates , it makes itself more attractive to investors and drives up the value of its currency . 
Edouard Balladur , the finance minister at the time , was sold on the tax-cut policy but was concerned that his government would be criticized as anti-European for disturbing the linked European currency relationship . 
To avoid this deficit Mr. Lawson inflated the pound in order to prevent its rise . 
This misguided policy could not prevent a British trade deficit . 
Little wonder that Mrs. Thatcher 's opponents were so anxious to keep Mr. Lawson in office . 
The British balance-of-payments statistics show that after the top tax rate was cut to 40 % , the flow abroad of British capital slowed , to 50 billion pounds -LRB- $ 79 billion at the current rate -RRB- in 1988 from 93 billion pounds in 1986 . This change in the British capital account required an offsetting change in the trade account , a change that could not be prevented by pegging the currency . 
This change in the British capital account required an offsetting change in the trade account , a change that could not be prevented by pegging the currency . 
The most important governments have ignored the role of low tax rates in attracting real capital investment , instead emphasizing financial flows in response to high interest rates . 
This has led them in a fruitless and destructive policy circle . 
This policy is totally mindless , and Sir Alan is correct to point out its deficiencies . 
A unified Germany that remained within the Western alliance would give Germany such an overshadowing position that all other members of a unified Europe would become vassals of the German state . 
Unless the Soviet Union collapses , German reunification is likely to require Germany 's neutralization . 
The implications for Britain , France and the rest of Europe of having their currencies tied to the economic policy of a neutral country need considering before we judge Mr. Lawson 's resignation to be unfortunate . 
It was the smallest monthly increase in a year . 
The department said personal income rose 0.3 % in September to a $ 4.469 trillion rate but would have climbed 0.6 % had it not been for the storm . 
Among the economic effects of the hurricane was a sharp drop in rental income . 
Many economists expect the weakness to continue . 
In the third quarter , the economy grew at a moderate 2.5 % annual rate . 
Car sales slackened in September after the 1990 models were introduced . 
According to the Commerce Department report , spending on durable goods -- items expected to last at least three years , including cars -- declined by $ 6.2 billion . 
Noting that the company is offering to buy back $ 154.2 million in senior notes paying 12 3\/4 % , he said the response will help determine future debt-reduction efforts . 
Sometime next year , Control Data will `` develop a new bank relationship , '' Mr. Perlman said . 
In recent months a group of lenders , led by Bank of America , has extended Control Data up to $ 90 million in revolving loans through January , as well as $ 115 million in standby letters of credit . 
Last week Control Data reported third-quarter earnings of $ 9.8 million , or 23 cents a share , on revenue of $ 763 million . 
Through the first nine months , the company had a loss of $ 484 million , largely reflecting the closing of its supercomputer unit . 
`` We do n't need the cash . '' 
He would n't elaborate . 
Partly , costs will be held down through strategic technology alliances , management said . 
Control Data recently announced an agreement with MIPS Computer Systems Inc. to jointly develop machines with simplified operating software . 
He disclosed that before Control Data scrapped its ETA Systems Inc. supercomputer business this past spring , those costs were running at nearly 35 % of group revenue . 
At the same time four of six design projects were spiked , he said . 
`` We think we 're getting only 10 % of the integration dollars our customers are spending , '' he said . 
`` We 're in environments that are going to spend a lot of money on that . '' 
Utilities management is a major commercial niche . 
`` Absolutely , '' he said . 
`` We 've been listed as a candidate for so long it 's not worth worrying about , '' said Mr. Price . 
Having resided in the great state of California for the past seven years , I find it hard to ignore our environmental problems when I start my commute to work with eyes tearing and head aching from the polluted air ; when I try to enjoy the beaches and come home covered with tar and oil ; when I hear of numerous deaths related to irresponsible processing of cheese and use of chemicals in fruit growing . 
Strange that we do n't hear similar criticisms of the East Coast activists who seek to clean up Boston Harbor or rid their beaches of medical waste . 
If nothing else , such initiatives as these will provide an awareness to citizens and lawmakers and encourage appropriate corrective action . 
Wright 's organic architecture demonstrated a keen sensitivity to the environment decades before it became fashionable among `` la-la activists . '' 
Perhaps Mr. Reagan , who claimed that air pollution is caused by trees , is the man you should be quoting to back up your position that economics is more important than the Earth . 
The illogic and inaccuracy of John H. Adams 's comments for the National Resources Defense Council fully justifies your characterization of California 's Greens in particular as `` la-la activists . '' 
We may all hope that California 's voters will heed the scientific realities that their own university 's renowned Prof. Tom Jukes provides them and ignore the charlatanry profferred by their `` wealthy Hollywood weepers . '' 
In a free country , the law should restrict citizens as little as is consistent with good manners and public safety . 
Would-be naysayers should have the burden of proving reasonable necessity when they urge a prohibition for enactment into law . 
Revenue last year increased by more than 11 % over 1988 , and net income nearly tripled from restated year-earlier net of $ 900 million . 
Systemwide , IATA airlines carried 632 million passengers last year , 2 % more than in 1987 . 
The newspaper quoted KGB chairman Vladimir A. Kryuchkov as saying the definition of anti-Soviet crimes had narrowed , the laws had changed and people no longer have to fear a simple slip of the tongue . 
Mr. Kryuchkov was quoted as saying that in place of the infamous 5th Directorate a new unit would work `` to foil the conspiracies of foreign intelligence services to create and use organized anti-government groups in our country . '' 
Rising inflation in Poland and Hungary makes Czechoslovak food , clothing and shoes relatively cheap for visitors from these countries . 
Its chairman told the union to prepare for the worst in next year 's confrontation with employers over a new three-year wage deal . 
Now comes word from a scientist that over the next century Venice will sink nearly three times faster than the present rate because of the `` greenhouse effect . '' 
`` Global warming means higher tides which will lower Venice by another 23 inches in the next 100 years , '' Giovanni Cecconi of the the New Venice Consortium said . 
Saying this is a first for a Western company , West Germany 's largest mail-order group said the newly established Moscow-based Intermoda company is scheduled to begin operations in February 1990 . 
Intermoda will initially only send the textile and clothing section of the Quelle catalog , translated into Russian , to Soviet customers who have access to convertible currency . 
`` Many programs we have now come from the West and are not suitable to our culture , '' a government minister said . 
A star attraction on the national network is the U.S. 's `` Dynasty . '' ... 
This would compare with an estimated loss of 3 cents a share for the comparable 10 months last year , which included restructuring costs . 
Shortly after that , Sony would offer to buy Guber-Peters Entertainment Co. for $ 200 million and offer its co-chairmen , Peter Guber and Jon Peters , the chance to run Columbia . 
Mr. Peters would fly to New York with the intention of telling Warner Communications Inc. Chairman Steven J. Ross that Guber-Peters planned to end its five-year contract to produce movies exclusively for Warner . 
In affidavits filed in Los Angeles Superior Court in connection with the $ 1 billion breach-of-contract suit Warner brought against Sony for hiring the two producers , Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters tell one story . Warner tells another . 
Warner tells another . 
Mr. Peters claims he reminded Mr. Ross that Robert Daly and Terry Semel , the top executives of the Warner Brothers studio , had `` repeatedly agreed that we had every right to accept '' an offer such as Sony 's . 
In response , Mr. Peters says , Mr. Ross referred to his colleagues at Warner with an `` obscenity '' and said : `` Tell them that they do n't have a job . 
You can take them with you . '' 
Tomorrow , Warner will file another batch of documents contending that `` the essence of everything these guys are saying is basically lies , '' says Warner 's chief outside counsel , Stuart Rabinowitz . 
Thursday , a judge is scheduled to rule on Warner 's motion seeking to block the Guber-Peters duo from going to Columbia . 
Warner says that what it really wants is for the producers to fulfill their contractual obligations , but the bitterness of this battle and the accusations flying on both sides make it unlikely that the decade-long relationship between Warner and its two most prolific producers can ever be repaired . 
Warner , which is in the process of merging with Time Warner Inc. , says it is willing to settle the matter out of court . 
Sony , for its part , could decide that the cost of a Warner settlement or court fight is too high , choosing instead to find someone else to run Columbia , although that too would be costly given the financial arrangement already guaranteed to Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters . 
In that case , Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters might not suffer financially , but they would be left without their dream job of running a studio and with a considerably scarred relationship with Warner . 
Sony and the Guber-Peters team are hanging much of their case on Warner 's willingness last year to release the producers from another contract and on an oral agreement they say allowed them to terminate the current written contract if the opportunity to run a major studio came up . 
Warner denies such an agreement was made , and disputes the Guber-Peters version of virtually every telephone call and meeting the two sides had on the matter . 
Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters say in their affidavits that Warner already is taking steps to freeze them out of their projects at Warner , notably the Sylvester Stallone film `` Tango and Cash . '' 
Over his objections , Mr. Peters says , the film 's release date was moved up `` by many months '' to December , and plans for a soundtrack `` worth millions of dollars '' were dropped . 
Mr. de la Bouillaire says Warner Brothers production president Mark Canton called him Oct. 19 and said Mr. Peters is `` off the picture . 
If he calls you up , just tell him everything is fine . '' 
`` The less they know , the easier it is for us . 
If someone asks , just lie and tell them it will be done , '' Mr. de la Bouillaire says Mr. Baird told them . 
The movie , he says , is in its post-production stages of `` cleaning up the film . '' 
He says Mr. Peters and Mr. Guber , as the contractual producers with consultation rights , have been invited to screenings and to give their input on the film . 
Dozens of Guber-Peters staffers are still working on the Warner lot and consulting on various projects on a `` daily basis , '' the attorney says . 
Mr. Guber says he had crossed out `` MGM '' with a red pen and written in `` Columbia , '' giving the document to Mr. Semel . 
`` Mr. Semel said absolutely nothing to indicate Warner would have any objection to our assuming management positions at Columbia , '' Mr. Guber says . 
He says he told Mr. Guber he could n't sign any documents and that `` the deal , although apparently a good one for him and Mr. Peters , would have a very negative impact on Warner . '' 
He said he would contact Mr. Ross and Warner Brothers Chairman Robert Daly and that , in a conference call , the three agreed they could n't let the producers out of their contract . 
The Guber-Peters side has said Warner is particularly concerned about the prospect of a huge Japanese company controlling important segments of the U.S. entertainment business . 
According to this theory , Warner executives , hoping to strengthen their relationships with the producers , encouraged Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters in their ambitions to build a major entertainment company . 
`` They are like a mini-studio ; they have 50 projects in development for Warner , '' he says . 
`` I suppose you could say the good news is that the deficits are not heading up , '' he said , `` but you ca n't be satisfied with deficits at this level and we 're not . '' 
Because the Resolution Trust Corp . could n't spend the money fast enough , the savings-and-loan outlays were pushed into fiscal 1990 . 
A partisan fight over cutting capital-gains taxes has slowed the progress of 1990 deficit-reduction legislation almost to a halt , triggering across-the-board spending cuts under the Gramm-Rudman law . 
Neither side showed any sign of retreating . 
Federal revenues rose 9 % to $ 990.79 billion . 
The Treasury marked up its forecast by $ 17 million in July , but that proved to be about $ 5 billion too optimistic . 
The increase reflects spending on the S&L rescue as well as payroll and Social Security checks normally issued in October that were issued in September this year because Oct. 1 fell on a Sunday . 
CMS is nearly done converting the Midland plant to a gas-fired cogeneration facility at a cost of $ 600 million . 
Accrued interest on the refund was about $ 18 million as of Oct. 25 . 
Polly Peck 's chairman , Asil Nadir , echoed the official Japanese view of the accord , which was announced Friday . 
It expects to post a loss of 6.4 billion yen for the year ending tomorrow and its liabilities currently exceed its assets by about 13.8 billion yen . `` 
If you find sound , healthy companies in Japan , they are not for sale , '' said George Watanabe , a management-consultant at Tokyo-based Asia Advisory Services Inc . 
If the strong yen and the high stock prices of Japanese companies were n't deterrents enough , webs of cross-shareholdings between friendly Japanese companies and fiercely independent Japanese corporate attitudes repel most would-be acquirers . 
Sansui was once one of Japan 's premier makers of expensive , high-quality stereo gear for audiophiles . 
Sansui was late into the mini-component business and failed to branch into other new businesses . 
While competitors moved production offshore in response to the sagging competitiveness of Japanese factories , Sansui lacked the money to build new plants in Southeast Asia . 
`` Our company has not been able to cope very effectively with '' changes in the marketplace , said Ryosuke Ito , Sansui 's president . 
`` Attitudes -LCB- toward being acquired -RCB- are still negative , but they 're becoming more positive , '' Mr. Murasawa said . 
`` In some industries , like pharmaceuticals , acquisitions make sense . '' 
Sansui , he said , is a perfect fit for Polly Peck 's electronics operations , which make televisions , videocassette recorders , microwaves and other products on an `` original equipment maker '' basis for sale under other companies ' brand names . 
He took Polly Peck , once a small fabric wholesaler , and used it at as a base to build a conglomerate that has been doubling its profits annually since 1980 . 
In September , it announced plans to acquire the tropical-fruit business of RJR Nabisco Inc. 's Del Monte foods unit for # 557 million -LRB- $ 878 million -RRB- . 
The debt , estimated at $ 4.7 billion , could mortgage the cellular company 's future earning power in order to placate some LIN holders in the short term . 
In effect , McCaw has forced LIN 's hand by bidding $ 1.9 billion for the stake earlier this month . 
Although he expressed confidence that the proposed new company 's cash flow would be sufficient to cover interest payments on the debt , he estimated that the company would n't be profitable until 1994 or later . 
They value McCaw 's bid at $ 112 to $ 118 a share . 
The previous BellSouth pact was valued at about $ 98 to $ 110 a share . 
In response to BellSouth 's amended pact , the Kirkland , Wash. , company extended its own offer to buy 22 million LIN shares for $ 125 apiece , which would give McCaw a 50.3 % controlling interest . 
Over the weekend , McCaw continued to call for an auction of LIN . 
Analysts said they expect McCaw to escalate the bidding again . 
`` At some point , it will become non-economical for one company . 
To sweeten the pact further -- and to ease concerns of institutional investors -- BellSouth added a provision designed to give extra protection to holders if the regional Bell company ever decides to buy the rest of the new cellular company . 
Only McCaw 's proposal requires the company to begin an auction process in June 1994 for remaining shares at third-party prices . 
We did n't expect BellSouth to be so responsive , '' said Frederick A. Moran , president of Moran Asset Management Inc. , which holds 500,000 LIN shares . 
We think this is a superior deal to McCaw 's . 
We 're surprised . 
We did n't think a sleeping -LCB- Bell -RCB- mentality would be willing to take on dilution . '' 
`` How many shares will be around in 1995 ? '' he asked . 
`` There 's nothing preventing BellSouth from buying up shares in the meanwhile . '' 
William O. McCoy , president of the company 's BellSouth Enterprises Inc. unit , said the revised agreement with LIN would dilute BellSouth earnings by about 9 % in both 1990 and 1991 and by significantly less thereafter . 
Analysts were predicting 1990 BellSouth earnings in the range of $ 3.90 a share , or $ 1.9 billion , but now those estimates are being scaled back . 
Urging LIN directors to conduct `` a fair auction on a level playing field , '' McCaw asked how well the public interest would be served `` with the Bell operating companies controlling over 94 % of all cellular -LCB- potential customers -RCB- in the nation 's top 10 markets . 
The most controversial form of program trading , stock-index arbitrage , is `` making it tough for traders to make money , '' declares Robert Antolini , head of OTC trading at Donaldson , Lufkin & Jenrette . 
Estimates from traders put it at less than 5 % of Nasdaq 's average daily volume of roughly 133 million shares . 
Because of program trading it is more difficult to trade many OTC stocks without sharp price moves , a condition known as illiquidity . 
Kidder Peabody does program trading for its own as well as clients ' accounts . 
Market makers , to cut costs , slashed inventories of stocks they keep on hand to sell investors when other holders are n't selling . 
On days when prices are tumbling , they must be willing to buy shares from sellers when no one else will . 
In such an environment , market makers can suffer huge losses both on trades made that day at steadily dropping prices and in the value of their inventories of shares . 
`` It 's harder to sell stocks when the sell programs come in because some market makers do n't want to -LCB- take the orders -RCB- . 
No one has big positions and no one wants to take big risks . '' 
`` Sometimes -LCB- traders -RCB- lose sight of that , '' he says . 
When the computers say `` sell , '' the composite tumbles as well as the Dow Jones Industrial Average . 
Three days later , as of Friday 's close , the Nasdaq Composite was down 6 % , compared with 5.9 % for the industrial average , 5.7 % for the S&P 500 and 5.8 % for the Big Board Composite . 
Such investors tend to be more cautious than institutional investors are about re-entering the market after massive selloffs , market makers say . 
For the week , the index dropped 3.8 % . 
The Nasdaq Financial Index lost about 1 % , or 3.95 , to 448.80 . 
The average daily share turnover for October is almost 148 million shares . 
; LIN and BellSouth sweetened their merger agreement in an attempt to keep shareholders from tendering their shares to McCaw Cellular Communications . 
McCaw , which dropped 2 1\/2 to 37 3\/4 , has offered $ 125 a share for a majority of LIN 's shares . 
LIN now plans to dole out $ 42 a share in cash , up from the earlier $ 20 amount . 
The semiconductor concern said the interruption in shipment of its 80486 computer chip will be brief and have little impact on the company 's earnings . 
The stock fell 7\/8 Thursday amid concerns over problems discovered with the chip . 
The company said its third-quarter earnings will probably be lower than the 16 cents a share it reported last year , despite a rise in the company 's revenue . 
Kirschner earned $ 376,000 on revenue of $ 14.5 million in the 1988 quarter . 
It showed some early resilience after central bank support firmed sterling , but the weight of Wall Street late in London trading , and signs of further weakness in the British pound , proved a hefty load to bear . 
New York stocks recovered some of their losses after the London market closed . 
Volume was 840.8 million shares , up from 443.6 million Thursday and the week 's most active session . 
Dealers said the multinational oil company was pressured by recent brokerage recommendations urging investors to switch into Shell Trading & Transport . 
The Nikkei index was pressured down by profit-taking triggered by sharp advances made through this week and fell 151.20 points to 35527.29 . 
First-section volume was estimated at 1.3 billion shares , up from 886 million shares Thursday . 
The DAX dropped 19.69 points Friday to 1462.93 . 
They said contributing to the downward drift was the fact that many professional traders had chosen to square positions ahead of the weekend . 
`` If you take away the outside influences , the market itself looks very cheap . 
What 's happening here is n't justified by the fundamentals . '' 
That 's leaving small investors with cold feet , they said , and prompting institutions to take a reserved stance on the sidelines as well , at least until the market in New York settles down somewhat . 
Concern about declines in other markets , especially New York , caused selling pressure . 
It was considered South Africa 's largest opposition rally . 
'' Minority Leader Dole plans to offer a resolution tomorrow denouncing the Nicaraguan president , whose remarks came during a celebration in Costa Rica marking regional moves to democracy . 
Ortega cited renewed attacks by the U.S.backed rebels . 
With all the votes counted , a government spokesman said Prime Minister Gonzalez 's party won 176 seats in the 350-seat Cortes , or lower house of parliament . 
The Socialists held 184 seats going into the balloting . 
The gatherings in East Berlin and elsewhere were viewed as part of a government effort to stop activists from staging protests to press their demands . 
Dissidents in Czechoslovakia said the nation 's pro-democracy movement was growing despite the government 's move to crush a protest Saturday in Prague 's Wenceslas Square . 
More than 10,000 demonstrators had called for free elections and the resignation of Communist Party leader Milos Jakes . 
Police detained more than 350 people . 
The talks in New York are the first since Bush and Soviet Foreign Minister Shevardnadze unveiled proposals in September to scrap existing weapons . 
While domestic orders climbed an adjusted 8 % and a nominal 11 % in September , foreign orders declined 4 % after inflation and 1 % on a nominal basis . 
Domestic orders were up a real 11 % and a nominal 14 % , while foreign orders rose a real 1 % and a nominal 5 % . 
`` I see we have about half the audience working for us , '' he said , tongue in cheek . 
`` The other half , we may have before long . '' 
; their industry has been unsettled recently by acquisitions . 
It now holds the No. 3 position at U.S. department-store cosmetic counters . 
That acquisition , to be completed by year end , will include the Cover Girl and Clarion makeup lines , making P&G the top marketer of cosmetics in mass-market outlets . 
Though it is far from certain that companies best known for selling Promise margarine and Tide detergent will succeed in cosmetics , there 's little doubt they will shake up the industry . 
Likely changes include more emphasis on research , soaring advertising budgets and aggressive pricing . 
Estee Lauder Inc. , Revlon Inc. and other cosmetics houses traditionally have considered themselves fashion enterprises whose product development is guided by the creative intuition of their executives . 
Cosmetics companies roll out new makeup colors several times a year , and since most products can be easily copied by competitors , they 're loath to test them with consumers . 
`` They 're really fashion items wrapped up in little jars . '' 
Both companies are conservative marketers that rely on extensive market research . 
Both can be extremely aggressive at pricing such products as soaps and diapers -- to the extent that some industry consultants predict cents-off coupons for mascara could result from their entry into the field . 
Consider Oil of Olay , which P&G acquired as part of Richardson-Vicks International in 1985 . 
The moisturizer , introduced in 1962 , had a dowdy image . 
`` Oil of Olay brought with it the baggage of being used basically by older women who had already aged , '' says David Williams , a consultant with New England Consulting Group . 
The company says sales have soared . 
Next year , Noxell plans to roll out a perfume called Navy , says George L. Bunting Jr. , chairman of Noxell . 
Without P&G 's backing , Noxell might not have been able to spend the estimated $ 5 million to $ 7 million needed to accomplish that without scrimping on its existing brands . 
Packaged-goods companies `` will make it tougher for smaller people to remain competitive , '' Mr. Bunting says . 
Rumors that Unilever is interested in acquiring Schering-Plough Corp. 's Maybelline unit are widespread . 
Unilever wo n't comment ; Schering , however , denies the brand is for sale . 
While the two are among the world 's biggest advertisers , most makers of upscale cosmetics spend relatively little on national ads . 
That figure has been inching up for several years . 
As the trend continues , demand for mass-market items that are high quality but only mid-priced -- particularly skin-care products -- is expected to increase . 
Unlike the old-line cosmetics houses , Unilever and P&G both have enormous research and development bases to draw on for new products . 
`` There will be more emphasis on quality , '' says Guy Peyrelongue , chief executive of Cosmair Inc. , the U.S. licensee of L'Oreal . 
`` You 'll see fewer gimmicks . '' 
In the 1970s , several pharmaceutical and packaged-goods companies , including Colgate-Palmolive Co. , Eli Lilly & Co. , Pfizer Inc. and Schering-Plough acquired cosmetics companies . 
Industry consultants say only Schering-Plough , which makes the mass-market Maybelline , has maintained a meaningful business . 
Colgate , which acquired Helena Rubenstein in 1973 , sold the brand seven years later after the brand languished . 
The mass-market Aziza brand , which it acquired in 1987 along with Chesebrough-Pond 's Inc. , has lost share , according to industry analysts . 
In this niche , makeup colors change seasonally because they are linked to ready-to-wear fashions . 
Because brand loyalty is weak and most cosmetics purchases are unplanned , careful training of store sales staffs by cosmetics companies is important . 
That was n't always the way the Reagan administration handled such matters . 
Congress never fully trusted former CIA chief William Casey and National Security Adviser John Poindexter to honor the ban . 
It emerged after a rancorous display of old-style intelligence politics that followed this month 's failed coup attempt in Panama . 
Mr. Bush even disclosed privately that one Reagan-era deal with Congress required him to notify the odious Panamanian dictator , Manuel Noriega , if the U.S. learned of a coup plot that might endanger his life . 
Sen. Boren happily told reporters that there had been `` a meeting of the minds '' with the White House , and that the committee had given Mr. Bush `` a clean slate , '' free of the impediments imposed during the Reagan years . 
Sen. Cohen said the relationship has reverted to its pre-Reagan character . 
Mr. Bush is reserving the right in `` rare '' instances to keep Congress in the dark , asserting a constitutional prerogative the committee does n't recognize . 
Some conservatives will accuse the president of promising Congress too much . 
That may be the last thing she needs . 
The prime minister and her new chancellor of the exchequer , the untested John Major , need to haul the country through something like a recession to bring down inflation and set the economy moving again . 
Mrs. Thatcher has to come to terms with European economic integration , beginning with the European Monetary System , which Britain is committed to joining fully someday . 
What 's worrying her supporters is that the economic cycle may be out of kilter with the political timetable . 
She could end up seeking a fourth term in an economy sick with inflation , high interest rates and a heavy trade deficit . 
`` There 's a rising fear that perhaps Mrs. Thatcher 's style of management has become a political liability , '' says Bill Martin , senior economist at London brokers UBS-Phillips & Drew . 
Last week , the strategy of playing the two experts off each other blew up : Mr. Lawson quit in exasperation and Sir Alan Walters , the adviser , announced his resignation within an hour . 
Currency traders , suspecting Mr. Major wo n't defend the pound strenuously , sent the British currency sharply lower Friday against the dollar and West German mark . 
Analysts expect further jitters this week . 
That could shove a weak economy into recession . 
Economists have been anticipating a slump for months , but they now say it will be deeper and longer than they had thought . 
Britain 's economy `` is developing rapidly toward no-growth , '' says J. Paul Horne , international economist with Smith Barney , Harris Upham Co. in Paris . 
Recovery could be hampered if Britain 's major trading partners in Europe , which are enjoying robust economic activity , cool off as expected in late 1990 and 1991 . 
For the Tories to win the next election , voters will need to sense economic improvement for about a year beforehand . 
Though Mrs. Thatcher does n't need to call an election until June 1992 , she would prefer doing so in late 1991 . 
`` If the economy shows no sign of turning around in about year 's time , she will be very vulnerable , '' says John Barnes , a lecturer at the London School of Economics . 
It has sent mixed signals about its willingness to take part in the exchange-rate mechanism of the European Monetary System , which links the major EC currencies . 
At a June EC summit , Mrs. Thatcher appeared to ease her opposition to full EMS membership , saying Britain would join once its inflation rate fell and the EC liberalized capital movements . 
Sir Alan assailed the monetary arrangement as `` half-baked '' in an article being published in an American economics journal . 
That produced little reaction from his boss , reinforcing speculation the government would use its two conditions as a pretext for avoiding full EMS membership . 
Sir Geoffrey Howe , deputy prime minister and a Lawson ally on the EMS , has signaled he will continue pressing for early membership . 
Mrs. Thatcher `` does n't like taking orders from foreigners , '' says Tim Congdon , economist with Gerrard & National Holding PLC . 
`` We wo n't have any more of this wayward behavior , '' says Sir Peter Hordern , a backbench Tory member of Parliament . 
`` The party is fed up with sackings of good people . '' 
As long as a decade ago , Mrs. Thatcher declared she did n't want debate in her cabinet ; she wanted strong government . 
; she wanted strong government . 
Over the weekend , she said she did n't intend to change her style and denied she is authoritarian . 
`` Nonsense , '' she told an interviewer yesterday on London Weekend Television . 
`` I am staying my own sweet , reasonable self . 
The women indicated which family member usually did various household chores and the approximate share each did . 
Only for yardwork and home maintenance did women do less than half . 
In these families , husbands took on 80 % more chores than in couples with only grammar school education . 
Her share decreases , but only slightly . '' 
Conventional wisdom has long held that anywhere from one-fourth to one-half of all elderly long-term care patients are obliged to spend themselves into poverty before qualifying for Medicaid assistance . 
-LRB- Another one-third are already on Medicaid when they enter the nursing homes , a considerably higher proportion than the analysts anticipated . -RRB- 
About one-third pay out of their own pockets , while the rest are covered throughout by Medicare , private insurers or the Veterans Administration . 
That compares with 58 % of the similar age group in the 1980 through 1982 surveys and 55 % in the 1972 through 1975 surveys . 
It estimates the time between college graduation and the awarding of a Ph. D. has lengthened by 30 % over the past 20 years , with the average gap now ranging from about 7.4 years in the physical sciences to 16.2 years in education . 
For one of the superstars of glasnost , Vitaly Korotich , editor of the trail-blazing weekly Ogonyok , Friday , Oct. 20 was a somersaulting day that turned from tension to elation . 
`` I told my driver , '' he said , `` that he was taking my butt to the Central Committee so they can ... '' whack , whack , whack his hand made vigorous spanking gestures on his left palm . `` 
They feel the need from time to time to ` educate ' me . '' 
Anxious allies of President Mikhail Gorbachev are cautioning media leaders to take it easy , to be careful not to do anything that could be used by Mr. Gorbachev 's opponents . 
The government is nervous . 
According to Mr. Korotich , who was present , Mr. Gorbachev 's publicized tongue-lashing of the press on Oct. 13 was more of a plea : `` Be careful boys ; use good judgment . We 're standing in gasoline , so do n't smoke ! '' 
; use good judgment . 
We 're standing in gasoline , so do n't smoke ! '' 
The day after that conversation at the residence of the U.S. ambassador , the Brezhnevite editor of Pravda , Victor Afnasjev , was replaced by a college classmate of Mr. Gorbachev 's . 
Brezhnevite holdovers have more to fear from Mr. Gorbachev than the verbal spanking he gave to the press . 
; today it sells 3.4 million . 
Prevented by the Communist Party from getting on its slate of nominees for the new Supreme Soviet , he stood as an independent candidate for Congress from his native Ukraine and won with 84 % of the vote . 
The same evening that he was summoned for a warning from the Party , he was cheered by thousands of his supporters at a rally of what can only be called the Korotich party . 
Censorship is n't a Marxist invention . 
The czars were no civil libertarians . 
As late as the 1890s , the Russian government prevented any coverage of famines . 
It even directed newspapers not to publish anything that might stain the honor of the Turkish sultan 's wives . 
It is an admirable public relations program initiated by a single political leader during a four-year blink of history . 
It is public relations of the highest sophistication , that recognizes that credibility is enhanced by honesty -- up to a point . 
Will Ogonyok begin a series of reports analyzing the failures of perestroika ? 
'' His answer reveals his vulnerability -- it also draws the line that Soviet society must cross to enter the normal dialogue of Western culture . 
It is the line beyond which the press can report not only on the bankruptcy of factories but on the failures of even admirable leaders . 
The plaintiffs accused Irving of paying less interest than promised in a marketing brochure . 
Irving maintained -- and still does -- that its actions were proper under its account agreements with customers . 
A Bank of New York spokesman in Manhattan , Owen Brady , said , `` That 's the maximum , outside figure . 
They claimed that the Fed would first give a green light to the economy by making credit readily available and then turn on the red and bring growth to a screeching halt . 
A supremely cautious man , the Fed chairman is forever blinking yellow . 
He fusses endlessly over economic statistics , dissecting them in dozens of ways , probing for hours in search of potential problems . 
After thoroughly digesting reams of information , he often concludes that more data are needed , and when he finally decides to act , his movements sometimes seem excrutiatingly small . 
Some Bush administration officials urged Mr. Greenspan to make an immediate public announcement of his plans to provide ample credit to the markets . 
A `` senior Fed official '' spoke on Saturday after the market swoon to both the Washington Post and the New York Times , saying the Fed was prepared to provide as much credit as the markets needed . 
Ironically , the anonymous official 's comments have earned some plaudits for Mr. Greenspan , who is mistakenly seen as the source . 
At a hearing last week , Democratic Sen. Chris Dodd of Connecticut told Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady that `` Chairman Greenspan 's '' announcement over the Oct. 13 weekend was a `` very important statement . '' 
Mr. Brady hesitantly replied that he was n't sure whether Mr. Greenspan `` made a statement himself , or whether that was a newspaper report . '' 
A surprisingly small amount of reserves was added to the banking system . 
Signs of growing weakness in the economy , paired with indications that inflation is staying well under control , have caused them to wonder why the Fed chairman is so grudging in reducing rates . 
The economy is showing signs of weakness , particularly among manufacturers . 
Exports , which played a key role in fueling growth over the last two years , seem to have stalled . 
Factory payrolls and production fell in September , and the auto industry and housing are in a severe crunch . 
But if the Fed eases too soon , Mr. Greenspan fears , prices may begin to accelerate again next year . Inflation may be stable at the moment , running at about 4.5 % . 
His hand on the monetary tiller seems one reason why the economy next month seems highly likely to begin an unprecedented eighth year of peacetime growth without a recession . 
`` We 've gotten through two stock market crashes , and we 've gone through an election without any major problems , '' says David Hale , an economist of Kemper Financial Services . 
`` I think you have to give Greenspan a good rating . '' 
The Fed 's reluctance to ease credit now could be laying the groundwork for a new recession , perhaps starting early next year . 
If that happens , Chairman Greenspan could well become an open target . 
Already , Congress is toying with legislation to curb the Fed 's independence . 
If the economy turns down , such proposals could gain strong momentum . 
A judge must jump from murder to antitrust cases , from arson to securities fraud , without missing a beat . 
Some patent lawyers had hoped that such a specialty court would be filled with experts in the field . 
The latter two and Judge Daniel M. Friedman , 73 , are approaching senior status or retirement . 
Several organizations , including the Industrial Biotechnical Association and the Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association , have asked the White House and Justice Department to name candidates with both patent and scientific backgrounds . 
The associations would like the court to include between three and six judges with specialized training . 
`` We do not feel that seats are reserved -LRB- for patent lawyers -RRB- , '' says Justice spokesman David Runkel , who declines to say how soon a candidate will be named . 
`` I believe that any good lawyer should be able to figure out and understand patent law , '' Judge Mayer says , adding that `` it 's the responsibility of highly paid lawyers -LRB- who argue before the court -RRB- to make us understand -LRB- complex patent litigation -RRB- . '' 
; lending practices vary widely by location . 
9.80 % , standard conventional fixed-rate mortgages ; 7.875 % , 2 % rate capped one-year adjustable rate mortgages . 
Its relationship with parent General Electric Co. had been frayed since a big Kidder insider-trading scandal two years ago . 
Chief executives and presidents had come and gone . 
By the end of this year , 63-year-old Chairman Silas Cathcart -- the former chairman of Illinois Tool Works who was derided as a `` tool-and-die man '' when GE brought him in to clean up Kidder in 1987 -- retires to his Lake Forest , Ill. , home , possibly to build a shopping mall on some land he owns . 
`` I 've done what I came to do '' at Kidder , he says . 
Mr. Carpenter says he will return Kidder to prominence as a great investment bank . 
Through the first nine months of the year , Kidder ranks a distant 10th among underwriters of U.S. stocks and bonds , with a 2.8 % market share , up slightly from 2.5 % in the year-earlier period , according to Securities Data Co . 
It 's quite a fall from the early 1980s , when Kidder still was counted as an investment-banking powerhouse . 
Its 1,400-member brokerage operation reported an estimated $ 5 million loss last year , although Kidder expects it to turn a profit this year . 
; in that controversial business , only Morgan Stanley & Co. rivals Kidder . 
There have been a dizzying parade of studies of the firm 's operations . 
More than 20 new managing directors and senior vice presidents have been hired since January . 
The firm 's brokerage force has been trimmed and its mergers-and-acquisitions staff increased to a record 55 people . 
One of GE 's goals when it bought 80 % of Kidder in 1986 was to take advantage of `` syngeries '' between Kidder and General Electric Capital Corp. , GE 's corporate-finance unit , which has $ 42 billion in assets . 
The units have worked on 37 investment banking deals this year , he says , though not all of them have panned out . 
It 's been a steadily improving relationship , '' says Mr. Carpenter . 
; about 50 to 60 of the 350 people in the investment banking operation have consistently been around that late . 
A new in-house magazine , Kidder World -- which will focus on the firm 's synergy strategy , says Mr. Carpenter -- confides that on weekends Mr. Newquist `` often gets value-added ideas while flying his single-engine Cessna Centurion on the way to Nantucket . '' 
`` The Kidder name is one of only six or seven that every CEO recognizes as a viable alternative '' when considering a merger deal , he says . 
Now , according to a Kidder World story about Mr. Megargel , all the firm has to do is `` position ourselves more in the deal flow . '' 
Mr. Carpenter this month sold off Kidder 's eight brokerage offices in Florida and Puerto Rico to Merrill Lynch & Co. , refueling speculation that Kidder is getting out of the brokerage business entirely . 
Mr. Carpenter denies the speculation . 
To answer the brokerage question , Kidder , in typical fashion , completed a task-force study . 
The result : Kidder will focus on rich individual investors and small companies , much closer to the clientele of Goldman , Sachs & Co. than a serve-the-world firm like Merrill Lynch or Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc . 
They will get `` new and improved tools to sell , particularly to the affluent investor , '' says brokerage chief Charles V. Sheehan . 
`` It was an absolutely marvelous line and one I used many times , '' he says . 
In coming years , Mr. Cathcart says , Kidder is `` gon na hum . '' 
As previously reported , a member of the Philippines ' House of Representatives has sued to stop the plant . 
The legislator , Enrique Garcia , had actively backed the plant , but at the original site in his constituency northwest of Manila . 
The country 's Supreme Court dismissed the suit , but Mr. Garcia late last month filed for a reconsideration . 
`` We have tried our best to tell the people in Bataan that maybe this time it will not go to them , but certainly we will do our best to encourage other investors to go to their province , '' Mrs. Aquino told Manila-based foreign correspondents . 
He said USI Far East has applied to both the Asian Development Bank and the World Bank 's International Finance Corp. for financing that could include equity stakes . 
Franklin is a closed-end management investment company . 
In Thursday 's edition , it was incorrectly indicated that the union had paid a fee to former House Speaker Jim Wright . 
He wants it now . 
`` I consider it one of the stupidest ideas of the 20th century , '' he says . 
Now the White House is declaring that he might not rely on Congress -- which has n't shown any willingness to surrender such authority -- to pass the line-item veto law he seeks . 
White House spokesmen last week said Mr. Bush is considering simply declaring that the Constitution gives him the power , exercising a line-item veto and inviting a court challenge to decide whether he has the right . 
`` The ramifications are enormous , '' says Rep. Don Edwards , a California Democrat who is a senior member of the House Judiciary Committee . 
`` It 's a real face-to-face arm wrestling challenge to Congress . '' 
Some senior advisers argue that with further fights over a capital-gains tax cut and a budget-reduction bill looming , Mr. Bush already has enough pending confrontations with Congress . 
They prefer to put off the line-item veto until at least next year . 
White House Press Secretary Marlin Fitzwater confirmed that Mr. Bush was interested in the idea , but cautioned that there was n't a firm decision to try it . 
They maintain that a president needs the ability to surgically remove pork-barrel spending projects that are attached to big omnibus spending bills . 
Those bills ca n't easily be vetoed in their entirety because they often are needed to keep the government operating . 
More provocatively , some conservative legal theorists have begun arguing that Mr. Bush does n't need to wait for a law giving him the veto because the power already is implicit in the Constitution . 
`` It 's a major issue , and they would n't want to leave it at a lower level , '' says Stephen Glazier , a New York attorney whose writings have been instrumental in pushing the idea that a president already has a line-item veto . 
`` It puts this president in the legislative business , '' he declares . 
`` That 's not what our fathers had in mind . '' 
If a president had a line-item veto and wanted to force him to support a controversial foreign-policy initiative , Rep. Edwards says , the president could call and declare that he would single-handedly kill the BART funds unless the congressman `` shapes up '' on the foreign-policy issue . 
Big chunks of the government budget , like the entitlement programs of Social Security and Medicare , would n't be affected . 
Governors have found that they have to use the device sparingly to maintain political comity . 
Lawmakers , they say , would avoid putting many spending projects into legislation in the first place for fear of the embarrassment of having them singled out for a line-item veto later . 
Republicans have as much interest as Democrats in `` the way the system works , '' he notes . 
Rep. Edwards voices the traditional conservative view that it 's a mistake to put too much power in the hands of a single person . 
Conservatives pushing for a line-item veto now , he notes , may regret it later : `` Sometime , you 're going to have a Democratic president again '' who 'll use his expanded powers against those very same conservatives . 
The oat-bran craze has cost the world 's largest cereal maker market share . The company 's president quit suddenly . And now Kellogg is indefinitely suspending work on what was to be a $ 1 billion cereal plant . 
The company 's president quit suddenly . 
Kellogg is so anxious to turn around Corn Flakes sales that it soon will begin selling boxes for as little as 99 cents , trade sources say . 
`` They are not a happy group of people at Battle Creek right now . '' 
`` I do n't think Kellogg can get back to 40 % this year , '' he said . 
People are reading the boxes and deciding they want something that 's ` healthy ' for you -- oats , bran . '' 
Mr. Maxwell said he would n't be surprised if , over the next two years or so , General Mills ' share increased to 30 % or more . 
He said construction would n't resume until market conditions warrant it . 
The company has five other U.S. plants , including a modern facility at its Battle Creek headquarters known as Building 100 , which is to add bran-processing and rice-processing capacity next year . 
A large plant in Covington , Ga. , is to come on line next year . 
`` As we regain our leadership level where we have been , and as we continue to put new products into the marketplace and need additional capacity , we will look at resuming our involvement with our plan , '' he said . 
Subcontractors said they were told that equipment orders would be delayed . 
Fluor Daniel already has reassigned most of its work crew , the sources said . 
Until recently , Kellogg had been telling its sales force and Wall Street that by 1992 it intended to achieve a 50 % share of market , measured in dollar volume . 
Last year , the company earned $ 480.4 million , or $ 3.90 a share , on sales of $ 4.3 billion . 
Net fell 16 % to $ 123.1 million , or $ 1.02 a share , from $ 145.7 million , or $ 1.18 a share . 
Sales rose 4.8 % to $ 1.20 billion from $ 1.14 billion . 
The divisions that Parker Hannifin is retaining were n't mentioned in Thursday 's edition . 
The debentures are convertible into common stock at $ 25 a share , representing a 24 % conversion premium over Thursday 's closing price . 
Rated single-B-1 by Moody 's Investors Service Inc. and single-B-plus by Standard & Poor 's Corp. , the issue will be sold through underwriters led by Goldman , Sachs & Co . 
Rated single-A-3 by Moody 's and triple-B by S&P , the issue will be sold through underwriters led by Merrill Lynch Capital Markets . 
The year was misstated in Friday 's editions . 
For the first nine months , the trade deficit was 14.933 trillion lire , compared with 10.485 trillion lire in the year-earlier period . 
Istat said the statistics are provisional and are n't seasonally adjusted . 
In the nine months , imports rose 20 % to 155.039 trillion lire , while exports grew 18 % to 140.106 trillion lire . 
The government directly owns 51.4 % and Factorex , a financial services company , holds 8.42 % . 
The rest is listed on Spanish stock exchanges . 
Catching up with commercial competitors in retail banking and financial services , they argue , will be difficult , particularly if market conditions turn sour . 
`` I want this to be a model of the way a public-owned company should be run , '' Mr. Luzon says . 
`` We 've got to move quickly . '' 
Now it says it 'll trim another 1,200 jobs over the next three to four years . 
Last year 's drop in export credit was partially offset by a 15 % surge in lending to individuals and small and medium-sized companies . 
The bank says it 's interested in purchasing banks in Morocco , Portugal and Puerto Rico . 
The late start may be a handicap for the bank as Spain continues to open up its market to foreign competition . 
Mr. Pearce set up GM 's first in-house litigation group in May with four lawyers , all former assistant U.S. attorneys with extensive trial experience . 
He intends to add to the litigation staff . 
GM lawyers have been working with technicians to develop more uniform welding procedures -- the way a vehicle is welded has a lot to do with its durability . 
David Burnham , one of the authors , says fewer trials probably means a growing number of plea bargains . 
`` Our felony caseloads have been consistent for 20 years , '' with about 15 % of all prosecutions going to trial , a department spokeswoman said . 
The discrepancy is somewhat perplexing in that the Syracuse researchers said they based their conclusions on government statistics . 
In 1987 , prosecutors filed against 35 defendants for every 100,000 adults . 
The Manhattan U.S. attorney 's office stressed criminal cases from 1980 to 1987 , averaging 43 for every 100,000 adults . But the New Jersey U.S. attorney averaged 16 . On the civil side , the Manhattan prosecutor filed an average of only 11 cases for every 100,000 adults during the same period ; the San Francisco U.S. attorney averaged 79 . 
On the civil side , the Manhattan prosecutor filed an average of only 11 cases for every 100,000 adults during the same period ; the San Francisco U.S. attorney averaged 79 . 
The U.S. attorney 's office , in documents it filed in response , said Mrs. Marcos was making the `` fanciful -- and factually unsupported -- claim that she was kidnapped into this country '' in order to obtain classified material in the case . 
The prosecutor quoted statements from the Marcoses in which they said they were in this country at the invitation of President Reagan and that they were enjoying the hospitality of the U.S. . 
A federal judge in Manhattan threw out the indictment , finding that the seven-year delay violated the defendant 's constitutional right to a speedy trial . 
Mr. Koskotas is fighting extradition proceedings that would return him to Greece , where he is charged with embezzling more than $ 250 million from the Bank of Crete . 
The state bar association 's policy making body , the House of Delegate , voted Saturday to ask Chief Judge Sol Wachtler to give the bar 's voluntary program three years to prove its effectiveness before considering mandatory pro bono . 
`` We believe our suggested plan is more likely to improve the availability of quality legal service to the poor than is the proposed mandatory pro bono plan and will achieve that objective without the divisiveness , distraction , administrative burdens and possible failure that we fear would accompany an attempt to impose a mandatory plan , '' said Justin L. Vigdor of Rochester , who headed the bar 's pro bono study committee . 
The consolidated firm , which would rank among the 10 largest in Texas , would operate under the name Jackson & Walker . 
The suit was filed by plaintiffs ' securities lawyer Richard D. Greenfield in U.S. District Court in Philadelphia . 
He seeks damages from the company 's 15 directors on grounds that they either `` participated in or condoned the illegal acts ... or utterly failed to carry out their duties as directors . '' 
The government 's assertions of the cover-up were made in last minute pretrial motions . 
`` It is a cheap-shot suit -- procedurally defective and thoroughly fallacious -- which was hurriedly filed by a contingency-fee lawyer as a result of newspaper reports , '' said a GE spokeswoman . 
She added that the company was considering bringing sanctions against Mr. Greenfield for making `` grossly inaccurate and unsupported allegations . 
It `` is going to sound neat to the dealer except when his 15-day car supply does n't include the bright red one that the lady wants to buy and she goes up the street to buy one , '' a Chrysler spokesman said . 
Under one count , Gulf Power would plead guilty to conspiring to violate the Utility Holding Company Act . 
Under the second count , the company would plead guilty to conspiring to evade taxes . 
No employee or vendor would be involved . 
`` We have no further developments to report , '' he said . 
Officials at Gulf Power could n't be reached for comment . 
Neither Mr. Addison nor any other Southern Co. official has been charged with any wrongdoing in connection with the current inquiries . 
Mr. Horton oversaw Gulf Power 's governmental-affairs efforts . 
Investigators have been trying to determine whether the crash was an accident , sabotage or suicide . 
First Tennessee , assisted by IBM , said it will attempt to place the employees within the company , IBM or other companies in Memphis . 
The process will take as many as six months to complete , the company said . 
Continued strength in the dollar was cited as one reason the trade position may deteriorate . 
`` We believe that there have continued to be indications of exchange-rate ` manipulation ' '' during the past six months , it said , citing the lack of market forces in South Korea 's exchange-rate system and the use of capital and interest-rate controls to manipulate exchange rates . 
The Treasury said Taiwan has liberalized its exchange rate system in the past year . 
The Senate , 84-6 , voted to increase to $ 124,000 the ceiling on insured mortgages from the FHA , which lost $ 4.2 billion in loan defaults last year . 
Senator Byrd is chairman of the Appropriations Committee . 
For Iowa , a $ 1.8 million request became $ 12 million for Senator Grassley , ranking minority member of a military construction subcommittee . 
Rep. Jamie Whitten of Mississippi and chairman of House Appropriations turned a $ 20 million Bush request for his state into a $ 49.7 million bequest . 
Senator Sasser of Tennessee is chairman of the Appropriations subcommittee on military construction ; Mr. Bush 's $ 87 million request for Tennessee increased to $ 109 million . 
In a remark someone should remember this time next year , Senator Sasser said , `` I think we 've seen the peak of military construction spending for many years to come . '' 
Tell us about the HUD scandals . 
Tell us what measure , short of house arrest , will get this Congress under control . 
Costa Rica had been negotiating with the U.S. and other banks for three years , but the debt plan was rushed to completion in order to be announced at the meeting . 
The remainder of the debt will be exchanged for new Costa Rican bonds with a 6 1\/4 % interest rate . 
Tenders , available in minimum denominations of $ 1 million , must be received by noon EST today at Federal Reserve Banks or branches . 
The three-month bills will still mature Feb. 1 , 1990 , and the six-month bills on May 3 , 1990 . 
The department will make payment for bills maturing on Nov. 2 to all investors who have requested reinvestment of their bills on that date , as well as to all account holders who have previously requested payment . 
The company said the move was necessary to meet capital requirements . 
The banking operation had a loss of $ 8.7 million in the second quarter , largely because of problem real-estate loans , while the insurance operations earned $ 884,000 . 
Friday brings the final count on October auto sales . 
What 's more , he believes seasonal swings in the auto industry this year are n't occurring at the same time as in the past , because of production and pricing differences that are curbing the accuracy of seasonal adjustments built into the employment data . 
A reading of less than 50 % indicates an economy that is generally contracting while a reading above 50 % indicates an economy that 's expanding . 
All orders-related components , such as consumer-goods orders and building permits , are thought to have been weaker . 
Usually , October `` is n't a very interesting month -LCB- for retail figures -RCB- because school clothes have been bought and people are waiting for December to buy Christmas presents , '' he said . 
He noted that higher gasoline prices will help buoy the October totals . 
Construction spending is believed to have slipped about 0.5 % from August levels , although economists noted the rate probably will pick up in the months ahead in response to hurricane and earthquake damage . 
Domestic machine tool plants received $ 303 million of orders last month , up 33 % from August 's $ 227.1 million , but still below the $ 328.2 million of September 1988 , NMTBA said . 
`` The outlook is positive for the intermediate to long term . '' 
At a recent meeting of manufacturing executives , `` everybody I talked with was very positive , '' he says . 
Most say they plan to spend more on factory equipment in 1990 than in 1989 . 
Auto makers , who began deferring some equipment purchases last spring , can be expected to remain cautious about spending if their sales do n't pick up , machine tool builders say . 
There is demand for state-of-the-art machine tools in the Soviet Union and in other Eastern European countries as those nations strive to improve the efficiency of their ailing factories as well as the quality of their goods . 
`` The Commerce Department says go , and the Defense Department says stop , '' complains one machine tool producer . 
Today 's presses are large and costly machines , and a few orders can produce a high total for one month that does n't necessarily indicate a trend . 
Shipments have run well ahead of 1988 all year , as machine tool builders produce against relatively good backlogs . 
That was up 2.8 % from a year earlier , even though orders for the first nine months of 1989 were down 19 % from the comparable 1988 period . 
At least 40 companies are coming to the capital market to raise $ 6 billion , an amount never thought possible in India . 
`` The capital market is booming . '' 
One is whether there is enough money to fund the new issues without depressing stock trading . 
A prospectus in India does n't always tell a potential investor much . 
Some of the large amounts are being raised by small firms . 
`` The rate of failures will be much more than the rate of successes in the mega-projects , '' says G.S. Patel , a former chairman of the giant , government-run mutual fund , the Unit Trust of India . 
`` They 're going to have mega-problems . '' 
In fiscal 1984 , before Mr. Gandhi came to power , only $ 810 million was raised . 
Convertible debentures -- bonds that can later be converted into equity shares -- are the most popular instrument this year , though many companies are also selling nonconvertible bonds or equity shares . 
He said industry should build plants on the same scale as those outside India and benefit from economies of scale . If the output was too great for the domestic market , he said , companies should export . 
Some of the projects being funded by the new issues are the first fruits of Mr. Gandhi 's policy , and they require more capital than the smaller industrial units built in the past . 
The industrial revolution has produced an explosion in the capital market , which is a far cheaper source of funds than government-controlled banks , where interest rates for prime borrowers are around 16 % . 
Mr. Gandhi has called general elections for November , and many businessmen fear that he and his Congress -LRB- I -RRB- Party will lose . 
Some companies are raising money in anticipation of a government less predictable than Mr. Gandhi 's , and possibly more restrictive . 
No one admits to anything , but India 's industrialists have a history of making under-the-table campaign donations . 
Earlier this year , Tata Iron & Steel Co. 's offer of $ 355 million of convertible debentures was oversubscribed . 
Essar Gujarat Ltd. , a marine construction company , had similar success with a slightly smaller issue . 
Larsen & Toubro started accepting applications for its giant issue earlier this month ; bankers and analysts expect it to be oversubscribed . 
Says M.J. Pherwani , chairman of the Unit Trust of India : The `` markets are headed for growth unheard of and unseen before . '' 
Various ministries decided the products businessmen could produce and how much ; and government-owned banks controlled the financing of projects and monitored whether companies came through on promised plans . 
The Securities and Exchange Board of India was set up earlier this year , along the lines of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission , but New Delhi has n't pushed the legislation to make it operational . 
`` Disclosures are very poor in India . '' 
He says the big questions -- `` Do you really need this much money to put up these investments ? Have you told investors what is happening in your sector ? What about your track record ? -- `` are n't asked of companies coming to market . 
? Have you told investors what is happening in your sector ? What about your track record ? -- `` are n't asked of companies coming to market . 
? What about your track record ? -- `` are n't asked of companies coming to market . 
Although Larsen & Toubro had n't raised money from the public in 38 years , its new owners frequently raise funds on the local market . 
-LRB- Reliance floated a $ 357 million petrochemical company in 1988 that was , at the time , the largest public issue in Indian history . -RRB- 
Unlike other companies , it has n't pin-pointed specific projects for the funds . 
Mr. Patel agrees : `` There is no proper monitoring and screening of the use of these funds . 
They 're trying to plug the various loopholes , but they 're totally unprepared for this . '' 
The government insists that such a possibility is low . 
It says that despite loose regulation of the market itself , its longstanding regulation of industry will prevent such crashes . 
Neither disclosed details pending board meetings next month . 
Finnair would receive SAS shares valued at the same amount , officials said . 
Ford got a similar go-ahead earlier in October , and on Friday , Jaguar announced that the No. 2 U.S. auto maker had raised its stake to 13.2 % , or 24.2 million shares , from 12.4 % earlier in the week . 
Trading volume was a moderately heavy 3.1 million shares . 
In the U.S. , Jaguar 's American depositary receipts were among the most active issues Friday in national over-the-counter trading where they closed at $ 11.625 each , up 62.5 cents . 
The British government , which owned Jaguar until 1984 , still holds a controlling `` golden share '' in the company . 
Jaguar officials have indicated they are close to wrapping up a friendly alliance with GM that would preserve Jaguar 's independence , but no deal has been announced . 
Analysts continued to speculate late last week that Ford may try to force the issue by calling for a special shareholder 's meeting and urging that the government and Jaguar holders remove the barriers to a full bidding contest before December 1990 . 
Any discussions with Ford could postpone the Jaguar-GM deal , headed for completion within the next two weeks . 
`` There 's either a minority -LCB- stake -RCB- package capable of getting Jaguar shareholder approval or there is n't , '' said one knowledgeable individual . `` If there is n't , -LCB- the deal -RCB- wo n't be put forward '' to shareholders . 
If there is n't , -LCB- the deal -RCB- wo n't be put forward '' to shareholders . 
GM 's U.K. unit holds crucial talks today with union officials about its consideration of an Ellesmere Port site for its first major engine plant in Britain . 
One auto-industry union leader said , `` If they try to build it somewhere else -LCB- in Europe -RCB- besides the U.K. , they are going to be in big trouble '' with unionists over any Jaguar deal . 
I 'm OK . '' 
Do n't worry . '' 
It 's a script pieced together from interviews by CBS News for a re-enactment , a dramatic rendering by an actor of Mr. Hoffman 's ultimately unsuccessful struggle with depression . 
It is the New Journalism come to television . 
He was Mr. Hoffman in a 1979 Los Angeles production of a play called `` The Chicago Conspiracy Trial . '' 
Broadcasters have a healthy appreciation of the role entertainment values play in captivating an audience . 
It has depicted the bombing of Pan Am flight 103 over the Scottish town of Lockerbie . 
On Oct. 21 , it did a rendition of the kidnapping and imprisonment of Associated Press correspondent Terry Anderson , who was abducted in March 1985 and is believed to be held in Lebanon . 
The production had actors playing Mr. Anderson and former hostages David Jacobsen , the Rev. Benjamin Weir and Father Lawrence Jenco . 
`` Prime Time Live , '' a new show this season featuring Sam Donaldson and Diane Sawyer , has a studio audience that applauds and that one night -LRB- to the embarrassment of the network -RRB- waved at the camera like the crowd on `` Let 's Make a Deal . '' 
-LRB- ABC stops short of using an `` applause '' sign and a comic to warm up the audience . 
The stars do that themselves . -RRB- 
Entertainment shows tend to cost twice that . 
That show , whose host is Ms. Chung 's husband , Maury Povich , has a particular penchant for grisly murders and stories having to do with sex -- the Robert Chambers murder case , the Rob Lowe tapes , what have you . 
At 555 W. 57th St. in Manhattan , one floor below the offices of `` 60 Minutes , '' the most successful prime-time news program ever , actors wait in the reception area to audition for `` Saturday Night With Connie Chung . '' 
James Earl Jones is cast to play the Rev. Mr. Johns . 
Ned Beatty may portray former California Gov. Pat Brown in a forthcoming epsiode on Caryl Chessman , the last man to be executed in California , in 1960 . 
That is n't much compared with what Bill Cosby makes , or even Connie Chung for that matter -LRB- who is paid $ 1.6 million a year and who recently did a guest shot of her own on the sitcom `` Murphy Brown '' -RRB- . 
It is combing the town of 10,000 for about 200 extras . 
On Oct. 20 , the town 's mayor , Robert Reid , made an announcement on behalf of CBS during half-time at the Middletown High School football game asking for volunteers . 
`` They 're filming right now at the bank down the street , and they want shots of people getting out of cars and kids on skateboards . 
They are approaching everyone on the street and asking if they want to be in a docudrama . '' 
I think re-enactments stink . '' 
Some producers seem tentative about the technique , squeamish even . 
Says she : `` Once you add dramatizations , it 's no longer news , it 's drama , and that has no place on a network news broadcast ... . 
They should never be on . 
That includes his companion of 15 years , Johanna Lawrenson , as well as his former wife , Anita . 
`` It 's a sensational piece about someone who is not here to defend himself . '' 
It takes one person 's account and gives it authenticity . '' 
`` I do n't talk about my work , '' he says . 
Neither woman was invited by CBS News to participate in a round-table discussion about Mr. Hoffman that is to follow the re-enactment . 
The producers , he says , did a good job of depicting someone `` who had done so much , but who was also a manic-depressive . 
A few months ago , Dentsu acquired 69 % of Australian agency Fortune Communication Holdings Ltd. for 5.9 million Australian dollars -LRB- US$ 4.6 million -RRB- . 
Dentsu has U.S. subsidiaries , but they keep low profiles . 
`` If we do n't do something ... we wo n't be able to catch up with demand , '' says a Dentsu spokesman . 
`` Our president said acquisition is an effective method . '' 
So far , it appears cautious about taking the big step . 
It is setting up a special team in charge of international markets and training workers to do business abroad . 
Dentsu 's billings last year were larger than those of Young & Rubicam , the world 's second-largest ad agency , according to a survey by the publication Advertising Age . 
On its own , Dentsu 's muscle in Japan may count for little in major foreign markets when seeking non-Japanese clients . 
Japanese agencies do business with rival clients in the same industry , a practice `` that would be unacceptable by traditional Western conflict rules , '' says Roy Warman , the London chief executive of Saatchi & Saatchi 's communications division . 
Last week CBS Inc. canceled `` The People Next Door . '' 
Mr. Vaux said that if no agreement is reached , other buyers will be sought by bid or auction . 
Labatt 's has no takeover bids outstanding currently , he said . 
While Compaq sells its machines to businesses through computer retailers , Texas Instruments will be selling most of its machines to the industrial market and to value-added resellers and original-equipment manufacturers . 
Although the Dallas-based computer giant introduced the first portable data terminal in 1971 -- a 38-pound monster -- and the world 's first microprocessor-based portable in 1976 , the only portable machines it has introduced since the first part of the decade have been `` dumb '' terminals with limited on-board processing ability . 
It stopped selling a standard personal computer a while ago . 
The laptops are not revolutionary and , indeed , are tardy in a market first opened by GRiD Systems Corp. , now a unit of Tandy Corp. , almost two years ago . 
Weighing 6.7 pounds with battery , the notebook measures 8.2 by 11.7 inches , has a 20-megabyte hard disk drive and boasts a backlit screen that is 22 % larger than Compaq 's . 
Its keyboard , according to industry consultants , is better than Compaq 's , but its battery life of two to three hours is shorter . 
It does n't have an internal floppy disk drive , although a snap-on drive can be purchased separately . 
Its greatest drawback may be its 3-inch thickness , big enough for one consultant to describe it as `` clunky . '' 
The notebook , the TI Model 12 , will be priced at $ 4,199 . 
The new rules will allow investors to buy foreign stocks directly . 
`` It 's an attractive market with good growth opportunities , '' he added . 
`` There are a lot of have and have-not markets . '' 
`` The big mo is as much of a factor in retailing as in politics , '' he said . 
The information on 125 metropolitan markets is supplied by retailers such as Sears , Roebuck & Co. and K mart Corp. as well as closely held concerns such as R.H. Macy & Co . 
El Paso , Austin and Fort Worth , the three strongest retail markets in the nation , are all located in Texas , where employment grew a relatively strong 2 % . 
Massachusetts , which has lost jobs in the computer and defense-related industries , was the weakest link in bleak New England . 
In 1987 , the West had the slowest sales growth , and the South and the Midwest were first and second respectively , according to the council . 
Stores such as Sears that sell big-ticket durable goods might actually get a boost as consumers rush to replace items lost in the disasters , he said . 
After the explosion , Kerr-McGee temporarily shut down its facility just south of Las Vegas for a safety inspection . 
That prompted Kerr-McGee to consider moving the potentially volatile storage facilities and cross-blending operations away from town . 
The new facility is expected to begin operations in early 1991 . 
The Henderson plant will continue its other chemical operations , the company said . 
Removed from office were George Pratt , Robert E. Davis , Norman Gray , John Virtue , corporate secretary , and Barrett B. Weekes , chairman , president and chief executive officer . 
The Tokyo-based company had net of 3.73 billion yen in the previous reporting period , which was the four months ended March 31 . 
It said it expects net to rise to 11 billion yen from 8.22 billion yen . 
Transactions in which prices were disclosed totaled $ 71.9 billion , up 36 % from $ 52.9 billion a year earlier , the company added . 
Transactions in which prices were disclosed totaled $ 188.1 billion , up 15 % from $ 163.2 billion a year earlier . 
The franchiser of pharmacies said the added shares will be distributed Dec. 4 to stock of record Nov. 13 . 
This estimate does n't include claims under workers ' compensation , life , health disability and liability insurance and damage to infrastructure such as bridges , highways and public buildings . 
She believes the impact of losses from these catastrophes is n't likely to halt the growth of the industry 's surplus capital next year . 
`` The reinsurance market has been bloodied by disasters '' in the U.S. as well as in Great Britain and Europe , says Thomas Rosencrants , director of research at Interstate\/Johnson Lane Inc. in Atlanta . 
Insurers buy this insurance protection for themselves by giving up a portion of the premiums they collect on a policy to another firm -- a reinsurance company , which , in turn , accepts a portion of any losses resulting from this policy . 
Insurers , such as Cigna Corp. , Transamerica Corp , and Aetna Life & Casualty Co. , buy reinsurance from other U.S.-based companies and Lloyd 's of London for one catastrophe at a time . 
A few years ago , State Farm , the nation 's largest home insurer , stopped buying reinsurance because no one carrier could provide all the coverage that it needed and the company found it cheaper to self-reinsure . 
The $ 472 million of losses State Farm expects from Hugo and an additional $ 300 million from the earthquake are less than 5 % of State Farm 's $ 16.7 billion total net worth . 
Sales of electric appliances were flat , and sales of electronic equipment declined slightly . 
Under the rights plan , holders will have one right for each common share held , with each right entitling the purchase of one common share for 100 Canadian dollars . 
The rights plan would be triggered if a person or group acquires 20 % or more of the common shares outstanding without making an offer to all shareholders . 
No individuals were charged in the indictment . 
The Patterson group , which controls about 42 % of Rally 's shares , also may seek control . 
Mr. Bush returned to Washington Saturday night . 
Saturday , he amended his remarks to say that he would continue to abide by the cease-fire if the U.S. ends its financial support for the Contras . 
He asked that the remaining U.S. humanitarian aid be diverted to disarming and demobilizing the rebels . 
Outside observers are gathering in Nicaragua to monitor the registration and treatment of opposition candidates . 
`` In these circumstances , I think they 'd win . '' 
Secretary of State James Baker , who accompanied President Bush to Costa Rica , told reporters Friday : `` I have no reason to deny reports that some Contras ambushed some Sandinista soldiers . '' 
He added that the U.S. has cut off aid to some rebel units when it was determined that those units broke the cease-fire . 
Mr. Abrams said that Mr. Ortega is seeking to demobilize the Contras prior to the elections to remove any pressure to hold fair elections . 
`` We did n't look at it and say , ` Oh my God , something is going to happen , ' '' said Stanley Uhr , vice president and corporate counsel . 
He said no discussions currently are taking place between the two companies . 
Increasing personal spending and capital investment are fueling growth , the company said . 
Exports made up 46.2 % of the latest year 's total , up from 39.8 % a year ago . 
Pretax profit is expected to increase 18 % to 22 billion yen and net income is expected to rise 53 % to 10.5 billion yen . 
He said Gulf Canada will likely report an extraordinary gain from the sale in the fourth quarter , but he would n't offer a specific estimate . 
Sales of electrical devices rose 13 % to 283.8 billion yen from 251.8 billion yen . 
It said sales of home electronic products advanced 3.7 % to 44.92 billion yen from 43.34 billion yen . 
It said net income will rise 25 % to 69 billion yen . 
The tender offer will be followed by the sale of all of Erbamont 's assets , subject to all of its liabilities , to Montedison . 
DPC Acquisition said it had received the reasonable assurance of Chase Manhattan Bank N.A. that the financing can be obtained . 
DPC Acquisition added that it has not begun discussions with financing sources , and said it expected to repay the amounts borrowed through proceeds of the liquidation . 
At the market price , the transaction has a total indicated value of $ 7.4 million . 
Sales were higher in all of the company 's business categories , with the biggest growth coming in sales of foodstuffs such as margarine , coffee and frozen food , which rose 6.3 % . 
Sales in the category that includes pharmaceuticals , amino acids and chemicals rose 4.7 % . 
It said it expects full-year net of 16 billion yen , compared with 15 billion yen in the latest year . 
If the exchange falters in these moves , they say , it might once again fall behind its chief New York competitor , the Commodity Exchange . 
Mr. Thompson is believed to have a mandate from the board of directors to help improve the Merc 's tarnished reputation as an exchange whose floor traders do n't follow the rules very well . 
Mr. Guttman told one person familiar with the New York exchanges during the search for a replacement that he was looking for a president who would be `` responsive to the needs of the membership and the board . '' 
Mr. Staloff , 44 , was a senior officer of the Philadelphia Stock Exchange and is considered a specialist in new financial products . 
For the past two years , he said , he and the exchange 's research department have been working on the new natural gas contract , seeking a good delivery site and studying the natural gas market . 
The educational effort of teaching companies in the natural gas industry how to use the futures to hedge would have to continue for another a year or two , he added . 
Earlier this year , the U.S. attorney indicted 45 floor traders and one clerk at the two big Chicago exchanges . 
Federal authorities in New York started investigating exchanges in May , though no indictments have been handed down there . 
So far they have issued scores of subpoenas , some of which went to members of the New York Merc . 
Mr. Thompson will have to face some of the consequences of those subpoenas . 
It levied the smallest number of suspensions of traders and fines of the four largest commodity exchanges studied over the past five years . 
Mr. Conway is no longer at the exchange . 
`` We recognized the problem and took care of it . '' 
He says that even if the natural gas contract boosts volume at the exchange strongly , the 1990 business plan calls for having adequate compliance people to ensure that exchange rules are being followed . 
Periodically , there has even been talk of mergers between one or more exchanges . 
So far there is little to show for such efforts . 
`` The cost of competition has become extremely high , '' he says . 
`` We must find ways to save money for the futures commission merchants who do business on our exchanges . '' 
He thinks that progress in cooperation can be made in areas where no vested interests have built up . 
One of those areas is the development of a hand-held electronic device that would permit floor traders to enter trades as they make them . 
The GAO has recommended the creation of a system to record trade data so that an independent , verifiable audit trail can be established to prevent customer fraud . 
The Merc is now cooperating with the Comex in developing such a device to provide such an audit trail . 
In January , the New York Merc signed a letter of intent with the Chicago Merc as a preliminary step to joining their electronic system called Globex . 
It recently began a pilot program to test an electronic trading system called ATS\/2 , the automated trading system created by the International Commodities Clearing House . 
He views the $ 1.10 to $ 1.12 range as a buying opportunity and considers the market oversold . 
He noted that the equity markets will set the tone for the industrial metals this week and traders should keep an eye on Wall Street . 
He added that talk of strike settlements at producing mines has been fully discounted . 
He said there are two reports this week that might affect prices : the purchasing managers report on Wednesday and the unemployment report on Friday . 
`` Most traders will be looking to buy -LCB- on -RCB- pullbacks , '' he said . 
According to Mr. Frawley , floor traders say there is good support for December gold in the $ 374 to $ 375 per ounce area , around $ 5.20 an ounce for December silver and in the $ 485 to $ 490 an ounce range for January platinum . 
He said last week 's activity in gold could portend a move to $ 390 an ounce for the December contract . 
`` I expect to see some selling , but will they kill this one as they have every rally in the recent past '' by selling and locking in prices for their production ? 
He noted that for the first time in months there was some light investor interest in the metals . 
If the weather allowed farmers to work in their fields over the weekend , many Midwest grain elevators will probably sell futures contracts today at the Chicago Board of Trade in order to hedge their weekend purchases from farmers . 
That selling of futures contracts by elevators is what helps keep downward pressure on crop prices during the harvest . 
Investors usually do n't want to take physical delivery of a contract , preferring instead to profit from its price swings and then end any obligation to take delivery or make delivery as it nears expiration . 
In addition to wage increases , the union negotiated improved vacation plans , benefit packages and pension plans , Mr. Slotnick said . 
As the good times rolled they more than doubled their prices for pulp , a raw material used in all sorts of paper , to $ 830 a metric ton this past spring from $ 380 a ton at the start of 1986 . 
Third-quarter profits fell at several companies . 
Gary Palmero of Oppenheimer & Co. expects a 30 % decline in earnings between now and 1991 for `` commodity-oriented '' paper companies , which account for the majority of the industry . 
Robert Schneider of Duff & Phelps sees paper-company stock prices falling 10 % to 15 % in 1990 , perhaps 25 % if there 's a recession . 
Generally they maintain that , barring a recession and a further strengthening of the dollar against foreign currencies , the industry is n't headed for a prolonged slump . 
`` It wo n't be an earthshaking drop , '' a Weyerhaeuser spokesman says . 
Mr. Schneider is cool to Georgia Pacific and Abitibi-Price . 
Lawrence Ross of PaineWebber would avoid Union Camp . 
Great Northern Nekoosa said , `` The odds of the dire predictions about us being right are small . '' 
International Paper emphasizes that it is better positioned than most companies for the coming overcapacity because its individual mills can make more than one grade of paper . 
He expects the price for that product to rise even more next year . 
Champion International said , `` We 've gotten our costs down and we 're better positioned for any cyclical downturn than we 've ever been . '' 
The company explained that its main product , bleached paperboard , which goes into some advertising materials and white boxes , historically does n't have sharp price swings . 
A company such as Federal Paper Board may be overly discounted and looks `` tempting '' to him , he says , though he is n't yet recommending the shares . 
Mr. Palmero recommends Temple-Inland , explaining that it is `` virtually the sole major paper company not undergoing a major capacity expansion , '' and thus should be able to lower long-term debt substantially next year . 
Some take a warm view of consumer-oriented paper companies , which buy pulp from the commodity producers and should benefit from the expected declines in pulp prices . 
A spokesman for Scott says that assuming the price of pulp continues to soften , `` We should do well . 
The restaurant operator cited transaction costs from its 1988 recapitalization as a result of a $ 160 million restructuring of its bank debt . 
The combined effect of these changes is expected to save the company about $ 4 million in interest expenses next year , or six cents a share . 
These payments consisted of $ 54 million in scheduled payments and $ 121 million in prepayments , funded by $ 82.8 million from operating cash flow , zero-coupon subordinated debt and assets sales . 
Last year , Mr. Kume said , Nissan exported slightly over one million vehicles , and produced 570,000 cars and trucks at its factories in North America , Europe and Australia . 
That will involve a substantial increase in overseas manufacturing capacity , he acknowledged , but did n't provide specific details . 
Revenue was $ 778.6 million . 
Last week , traders said , there were three institutional sellers for every buyer . 
`` Most dealers can not continue to absorb this supply . '' 
`` People are very concerned about who is going to step up to the plate and buy municipal bonds in the absence of institutional buyers . '' 
That 's a taxable-equivalent yield nearly three percentage points more than the current yield on 30-year Treasury bonds . 
This past summer , investors ' appetite for municipal bonds seemed insatiable . 
Individuals eager for tax-free income drove up bond prices , making state and local government debt one of the best-performing types of fixed-income investments during the period . 
Big banks such as Chemical Bank and Chase Manhattan , which have been taking heavy charges to expand their Third World loan-loss reserves , are n't looking for tax-exempt income . 
`` We do n't need the shelter of tax-free bonds , '' said a spokeswoman at Chemical . 
The spokeswoman confirmed that the bank has significantly reduced its muni holdings , but could n't immediately confirm the amount . 
There is speculation that property\/casualty firms will sell even more munis as they scramble to raise cash to pay claims related to Hurricane Hugo and the Northern California earthquake . 
Muni bond holders are worried about the impact of a slowing economy on tax revenue , at a time when many state and local governments already face budget deficits and huge spending needs . 
The recent natural disasters , and the need of many other cities to rebuild crumbling infrastructure , suggests that supply of new issues will continue to rise sharply -- even as demand tapers off . 
Because municipal bonds yields have risen at a time when interest rates generally have fallen , some portfolio managers are assuming that bonds bought now will appreciate in value as the municipal bond market rebounds . 
The offering will include $ 729 million of 20-year tax-exempt bonds and $ 57.8 million of taxable bonds . 
On Friday , some issues fell nearly one point , or close to $ 10 for each $ 1,000 face amount . 
The city 's economy is growing weaker and expenditures are rising as tax revenue is falling . 
They 'd like to see some other names in their portfolios , '' said Michael S. Appelbaum , first vice president at Shearson Lehman Hutton . 
The issue 's yield rose to 7.93 % from 7.88 % . 
One dealer said the talk was that the firm sold about $ 500 million of bellwether 30-year bonds . 
Cantor provides price quotes to Telerate Systems Inc. , a widely used electronic system . 
The sale , expected to close before the end of the year , also includes a manufacturing plant in Franklin Park , Ill . 
RJR Holdings Capital Corp. 's 14.7 % convertible pay-in-kind securities maturing in 2009 closed 1\/2 higher at 86 1\/2 after trading as low as 85 1\/4 . 
A spokesman for Campeau called the rumors `` ridiculous . '' 
The Catastrophic Coverage Act would add a stop-loss provision next year to limit the maximum beneficiaries must pay for doctors . 
Both the House and Senate bills to reduce the cost and coverage of the catastrophic-care plan would eliminate the cap on doctor 's bills . 
If the Senate plan prevails , the premium will be $ 33.90 , with the additional $ 4.90 going to pay for expanded hospital coverage under Part A of Medicare . 
The reductions should be complete by the end of the year , a spokesman said , adding that the exact number to be cut has n't been determined . 
`` The pain is too great . 
The results made net income for the year ended Aug. 31 C$ 2.7 million , or 20 Canadian cents a share , down from C$ 9.7 million , or 70 Canadian cents a share last year . 
Revenue was C$ 291.6 million , up from C$ 252 million in 1988 . 
`` I 'm happy that he feels positively about our company , '' he said . 
Mr. Fabi would n't say directly whether Mr. Pattison has disclosed potential terms for his planned bid for control . 
A joint venture involving units of Innopac and Mobil Corp. earlier this year opened the first U.S. polystyrene recycling plant , in Leominster , Mass . 
Bowing to criticism , Bear Stearns , Morgan Stanley and Oppenheimer joined PaineWebber in suspending stock-index arbitrage trading for their own accounts . 
The slowdown raises questions about the economy 's strength because spending fueled much of the third-quarter GNP growth . 
The accord helps RJR pay off debt and boosts Nestle 's 7 % share of the U.S. candy market to 12 % . 
GM confirmed it received U.S. antitrust clearance to boost its holding . 
Scientists felt differently . 
In 1807 , the Swiss mathematician who headed the U.S. Coast and Geodetic Survey made an `` iron meter '' that he had brought from Europe the standard of measure . By the end of the century scientists had embraced the system . 
When Congress finally passed the Metric Conversion Act in 1975 , industry was far ahead . 
Because the law made compliance voluntary , it inspired little more than jokes . 
-LRB- The press had a field day with questions about what would happen to `` six-footer , '' `` yardstick '' and `` inchworm . '' -RRB- 
Farm-machine makers such as Caterpillar and Deere work in the metric system . 
The liquor industry went metric 10 years ago . 
New weapons systems will be around until the next century , notes John Tascher , the Defense Department 's metric coordinator . 
Soldiers and sailors are still measured in inches and pounds . 
He said his sales force is signing up schools at the rate of 25 a day . 
Mr. Whittle said private and parochial schools in both states will be canvassed to see if they are interested in getting the programs . 
About 10 % of the school districts approached have rejected the network . 
One of the test schools , Withrow High School in Cincinnati , rejected the project . 
`` The pilot program was received well -LRB- by teachers and students -RRB- , but there was n't reason enough to sign up . 
We even invited the public to stop by and see the program , but there was n't much interest . '' 
Last month , Whittle announced it had sold $ 150 million in advertising time on the network to national advertisers . 
Mr. Whittle Friday said several more advertisers have been added . 
Installation of satellite dishes , TVs and videocassette equipment will cost the company about $ 20,000 per school , Mr. Whittle said . 
Since peaking at 2791.41 on Oct. 9 , the Dow Jones Industrial Average has lost 194.69 points , or 7 % , closing Friday at 2596.72 , down 17.01 . 
The number of issues falling on the New York Stock Exchange each day is eclipsing the number of gainers . 
Sure , price action is volatile and that 's scary , but all-in-all stocks are still a good place to be , they suggest . 
`` UAL is a small deal as far as the overall market is concerned . 
The only way you can make it a big deal is to draw linkages that just do n't make sense . '' 
Carried even further , some investors assumed that since leveraged buy-outs are the only thing propping up stock prices , the market would collapse if no more LBOs could be done . 
`` There may not be as many and the buyers may not get away with some of the things they 've done in the past , but deals wo n't disappear . '' 
He forecasts that the emphasis in mergers and acquisitions may soon return to what he calls `` strategic deals , in which somebody is taking over a company not to milk the cash flow , but because it 's a good fit . '' 
For the long-term investor who picks stocks carefully , the price volatility can provide welcome buying opportunities as short-term players scramble frantically to sell stocks in a matter of minutes . 
`` Who can make the better decision , the guy who has 10 seconds to decide what to do or the guy with all the time in the world ? '' he says . 
`` What on earth does the UAL deal have to do with the price of Walmart , which I was able to buy on Oct. 16 at a very attractive price ? '' 
`` We 've run into a market that was beginning to run out of steam and get frothy , '' he says . 
`` The balloon had been blown up so big that when somebody came along with a pin -- in this case the UAL deal -- we got a little pop . '' 
`` It provided an excuse for people to get back to reality and to look at the economic data , especially the third-quarter economic numbers , and to realize that we ca n't continue to gloss over what is going on in the junk bond market . '' 
`` Just because we 've got some realism back in the market does n't mean it 's going lower from here , '' he says . 
`` The bottom line is that it 's healthy to have this kind of sideways activity , especially after a 30 % gain in stock values over the past 12 months . '' 
He 's now estimating that after a period of consolidation , the Dow Jones Industrial Average will once again forge new highs . 
Abby Joseph Cohen , a market strategist at Drexel Burnham Lambert , is n't nearly so sanguine about the market 's chances of surging to new highs anytime soon . 
Her view is that stock prices have three major props : merger and buy-out proposals , earnings and the economic outlook . At current levels of economic activity and earnings , stocks are fairly valued , she says . But any chance for prices to surge above fair value lies in the speculation that accompanies a vigorous merger and buy-out business , and UAL has obviously put a damper on that . `` Stocks are n't cheap anymore , there have been some judicial and legislative changes in the merger area and all of this changes the arithmetic of deals , '' she says . `` I 'm not saying they 've stopped altogether , but future deals are going to be structured differently and bids probably wo n't be as high . '' 
At current levels of economic activity and earnings , stocks are fairly valued , she says . 
`` I 'm not saying they 've stopped altogether , but future deals are going to be structured differently and bids probably wo n't be as high . '' 
Third-quarter earnings have been generally disappointing and with economic data showing a clear slowing , the outlook for earnings in the fourth quarter and all of 1990 is getting worse . 
`` The question is unanswerable at this point , '' she says . 
`` It depends on what happens . 
If the economy slips into a recession , then this is n't a level that 's going to hold . '' 
Volume on the New York Stock Exchange totaled 170,330,000 shares . 
Declining issues on the Big Board were far ahead of gainers , 1,108 to 416 . 
For the week the Dow Jones Industrial Average sank 92.42 points , or 3.4 % . 
The stock 's advance reflected ongoing speculation that Pennzoil is accumulating a stake in the company , according to Dow Jones Professional Investor Report . 
Earlier this month , Mr. Icahn boosted his USX stake to 13.4 % . 
Mobil , which said it plans to cut its exploration and production work force by about 8 % in a restructuring , dropped 5\/8 to 56 1\/8 . 
Hecla Mining rose 5\/8 to 14 ; Battle Mountain Gold climbed 3\/4 to 16 3\/4 ; Homestake Mining rose 1 1\/8 to 16 7\/8 ; Lac Minerals added 5\/8 to 11 ; Placer Dome went up 7\/8 to 16 3\/4 , and ASA Ltd. jumped 3 5\/8 to 49 5\/8 . 
Echo Bay Mines rose 5\/8 to 15 7\/8 ; Pegasus Gold advanced 1 1\/2 to 12 , and Corona Class A gained 1\/2 to 7 1\/2 . 
; Pegasus Gold advanced 1 1\/2 to 12 , and Corona Class A gained 1\/2 to 7 1\/2 . 
International Business Machines dropped 7\/8 to 99 7\/8 . 
Digital Equipment tacked on 1 1\/8 to 89 1\/8 , and Hewlett-Packard fell 3\/8 to 49 3\/8 . 
The stock has a 3.5 % dividend yield and goes ex-dividend today . 
Montedison , which owns about 72 % of the company 's common stock , agreed to buy the rest for $ 37 a share . 
Himont , another majority-owned unit of Montedison , added 1 1\/4 to 47 1\/8 . 
Crane said it holds an 8.9 % stake in the company and may seek control . 
The explosion sent shards of metal flying , severing the DC-10 's hydraulic or control systems , and led to the crash that killed 112 people . 
Among the issues the board will examine is whether United Airlines , a unit of UAL Corp. , should have been able to detect the cracks through maintenance checks . 
He said there was n't any way to detect the flaw at that time , and that the process has since been changed to decrease the chance that such flaws would occur . 
Such tests make the FAA confident that a Sioux City-type accident `` wo n't happen again , '' said Mr. Broderick . 
A spokesman for GE said that the company has been working with the FAA all along on this issue and `` will comply fully with the required inspections . '' 
The CF6-6 series engines are n't being manufactured any more ; they are only being used in the DC-10 Series 10 planes currently in service , he said . 
These measurements can indicate temperature changes , researchers said , because the rates of evaporation of these oxygen atoms differ as temperatures change . 
Some climate models project that interior regions of Asia would be among the first to heat up in a global warming because they are far from oceans , which moderate temperature changes . 
Other temperature data show similar unexplained swings . 
The extra margin for bases in the U.S. enhances the power of the appropriations committees ; meanwhile , lawmakers used their positions to garner as much as six times what the Pentagon had requested for their individual states . 
West Virginia , home of Senate Appropriations Committee Chairman Robert Byrd , would receive $ 21.5 million -- four times the military 's request . 
Tennessee and North Carolina , home states of the two Democratic chairmen of the House and Senate military construction subcommittees , receive $ 243.2 million , or 25 % above the Pentagon 's request . 
Though spending for Iowa and Oregon was far less , their increases above Pentagon requests -- 640 % and 430 % , respectively -- were much greater because of the influence of Republicans at critical junctures . 
By an 84-6 margin , the Senate approved the bulk of the spending Friday , but the bill was then sent back to the House to resolve the question of how to address budget limits on credit allocations for the Federal Housing Administration . 
Appropriations committees have used an assortment of devices to disguise as much as $ 1 billion in spending , and as critics have awakened to these devices , the bill can seem like a wounded caribou trying to make it past ice and wolves to reach safer winter grazing . 
Part of the increase would provide $ 90 million toward ensuring construction of a costly solid rocket-motor facility in Mr. Whitten 's Mississippi . 
Conservatives , embarrassed by Republican influence-peddling scandals at the Department of Housing and Urban Development , have used the issue in an effort to shift blame onto a Democratic-controlled Congress . 
HUD Secretary Jack Kemp backed an unsuccessful effort to strike such language last week , but received little support from the White House budget office , which wants to protect space-station funding in the bill and has tended to turn its eyes from pork-barrel amendments . 
House Speaker Thomas Foley won $ 510,000 for a project in his district in Washington state , and $ 1.3 million , earmarked by Sen. Daniel Inouye , amounts to a business subsidy under the title `` Hawaiian sugar mills job retention . '' 
When this plan met resistance , it was agreed instead to take money from HUD to subsidize needed improvements in two settling ponds for the mills , which employ an estimated 1,500 workers , according to Mr. Inouye 's office . 
Although we were white , the same economic factors affected us as affects the black people Mr. Farney writes about . 
Fortunately , an aunt with a college degree bought a small farm and moved us 50 miles north to good schools and an environment that opened the world of opportunity for me as an eight-year-old . 
Following World War II , when one family with mechanized equipment could farm crops formerly requiring 20 families , the surplus people were dumped into the mainstream of society with no Social Security , no skills in the workplace , no hope for their future except welfare . 
The people of the Delta are waiting for that big factory to open , river traffic to increase , government spending to fund job-training programs or public schools to educate apathetic students . 
Coffee-shop chatter does not lend itself to solving the problems of racism , teen pregnancy or lack of parental support or guidance . 
Should we focus on the region 's infant-mortality rate when the vocal right-wingers and the school boards , mayors and legislators prohibit schools from teaching the two ways -LRB- abstinence or contraceptives -RRB- of decreasing teen pregnancy ? 
Delta problems are difficult , not impossible , to solve -- I am just not convinced that we are ready to solve them yet . 
The next time expansion plans are mentioned at the old company and somebody says , `` Aw heck , guys , nobody can do it like Japan or South Korea , '' I wish you would butt in and say , `` Hold it , fellas , why do n't we compare prices and use our own little Third World country . 
We would even save on freight . '' 
Many of the problems you presented exist in every part of this country . 
Poverty is only two blocks from President Bush 's residence . 
The only difference is , in those cities the poor are housed in high-rise-project apartments each consisting of one room , with rusty pipes called plumbing , rodents and cockroaches everywhere and nonworking elevators -- and with the building patrolled by gangs and drug dealers . 
The exploration side of the unit has recently undergone a similar overhaul , during which it also lost as many as 400 employees , a company spokesman said in response to questions . 
Mobil officials said that it is unlikely any additional charges related to this move will be taken in future quarters . 
For greater efficiency , employees at those locations will be reorganized into teams responsible for managing the properties under their jurisdiction , Mobil said . 
`` The main feature of the new organization is that each local manager will have both the authority and accountability for profitable and technically sound operations , '' said Charles E. Spruell , president of the Mobil unit . 
Now , the nationwide average yield on a six-month CD is just under 8 % , and 8.5 % is about the best around . 
Yields on most fixed-income securities are lower than several months ago . 
Short-term municipal bonds , bond funds and tax-deferred annuities are some of the choices they mention -- and not just as a way to get a higher return . 
`` People should remember their money is n't all or nothing -- they do n't need to be shopping for the one interest-rate-type investment and putting all their money in it , '' says Bethesda , Md. , adviser Karen Schaeffer . 
Yields on municipal bonds can be higher than after-tax yields on CDs for maturities of perhaps one to five years . 
Rates approach 6.5 % on five-year municipals . 
These securities get top credit ratings because the issuers have put aside U.S. bonds that will be sold to pay off holders when the municipals are retired . 
The idea is to have money rolling over each year at prevailing interest rates . 
That makes them a reasonable option for investors who will accept some risk of price fluctuation in order to make a bet that interest rates will decline over the next year or so . 
Bond resale prices , and thus fund share prices , move in the opposite direction from rates . 
The Short Term Bond Fund , with an average maturity of 2 1\/2 years , would deliver a total return for one year of about 10.6 % if rates drop one percentage point and a one-year return of about 6.6 % if rates rise by the same amount . 
If interest rates do n't change , bond fund investors ' returns will be about equal to the funds ' current yields . 
Aimed specifically at CD holders are so-called CD-type annuities , or certificates of annuity . 
An interest rate is guaranteed for between one and seven years , after which holders get 30 days to choose another guarantee period or to switch to another insurer 's contract without the surrender charges that are common to annuities . 
With average maturities of a month or so , money funds offer fixed share prices and floating returns that track market interest rates , with a slight lag . 
If rates unexpectedly rise , the increasing return on the money fund will partly offset the lower-than-expected return from the bond fund . 
At least six of the deaths occurred among relatively young diabetics who had switched from animal to human insulin within the past year , he said . 
`` The anecdotal data certainly shows that some of the people were not aware of the rapid onset of hypoglycemia , '' Dr. Toseland said . 
`` We are now monitoring for it much more closely , '' he said . 
The human-based drug starts the blood sugar dropping sooner and drives it down faster , he said . 
Both the British Diabetic Association and the Committee on Safety in Medicines -- Britain 's equivalent of the U.S. FDA -- recently issued statements noting the lack of hard scientific evidence to support Dr. Toseland 's findings . 
Dr. Leigh Thompson , a Lilly group vice president , said the company 's clinical trials of both its animal and human-based insulins indicated no difference in the level of hypoglycemia between users of either product . 
None of the diabetics were using Lilly 's insulin . 
We 'd do the strategy and then we 'd come around and do the budget . 
This city does n't work that way . '' 
With a five-year defense plan costing more than $ 1.6 trillion , it 's about time we put together a defense strategy that works in Washington . 
As it is , we identify national goals and the threats to these goals , we shape a strategy to counter these threats , we determine the forces needed to execute the strategy , before finally forging the budgets needed to build and maintain the forces . 
These procedures consume millions of man-hours of labor and produce tons of paper , and each year , their end product -- the Five Year Defense Plan -- promptly melts away . 
Compare the past eight five-year plans with actual appropriations . 
The Pentagon 's strategists produce budgets that simply can not be executed because they assume a defense strategy depends only on goals and threats . 
By ignoring costs , U.S. strategists abdicate their responsibility for hard decisions . 
That puts the real strategic decisions in the hands of others : bean counters , budgeteers , and pork-barrelers . 
These people have different agendas . 
Strategists should consider the impact of budget uncertainties at the beginning of the planning process . 
They ought to examine how a range of optimistic to pessimistic budget scenarios would change the defense program . 
There is no reason that it can not be done for defense planning . 
Step 1 cleans up our books . 
Our five-year plan contains three accounting devices -- negative money , an above guidance management reserve and optimistic inflation estimates -- which understate the spending the Pentagon has committed itself to by almost $ 100 billion . 
To make the books balance , as is required by law , somebody invented a new budget line item that simply subtracted $ 45 billion . 
Most forecasters , including those in the Congressional Budget Office , assume inflation will be in excess of 4 % in each of those five years . 
Note how the baseline program assumes a sharp increase in future appropriations . 
This scenario has been the rough position of the U.S. Senate since 1985 , and it reduces the baseline by $ 106 billion between 1990 and 1994 . 
It freezes the budget at its current level , and forces the Pentagon to eat the effects of inflation until 1994 . 
This reduces the baseline by $ 229 billion . 
It reduces the baseline by $ 169 billion . 
This can be thought of as a pessimistic prediction , perhaps driven by the sequestering effects of the Gramm-Rudman deficit reduction law or possibly a relaxation of tensions with the Soviet Union . 
They would conclude their efforts by producing a comprehensive net assessment for each plan -- including the assumptions made , an analysis of its deficiencies and limitations , the impact on national security , and the best strategy for working around these limitations . 
These trade-offs would evolve priorities by revealing when the cost of the B-2 became prohibitive . 
A strategic review is fundamentally different . 
It would be run by the joint chiefs under simple directions : Produce the best possible force for each budget scenario and provide the Secretary of Defense with a comprehensive net assessment of how that force could be used to achieve U.S. goals . 
This argument plays well in the atmosphere of gaming and mistrust permeating the Pentagon and Congress , and unfortunately , there is some truth to it . 
To say that the Pentagon should act irresponsibly because acting responsibly will provoke Congress into acting irresponsibly leads to the conclusion that the Pentagon should deliberately exaggerate its needs in the national interest ; in other words , that it is justified in committing a crime -- lying to Congress -- because it is morally superior . 
If we want meaningful priorities , we must understand the trade-offs they imply before we make commitments . 
`` By default , '' the dollar probably will be able to hold up pretty well in coming days , says Francoise Soares-Kemp , a foreign-exchange adviser at Credit Suisse . 
`` We 're close to the bottom '' of the near-term ranges , she contends . 
The pound strengthened to $ 1.5795 from $ 1.5765 . 
The rise came as traders continued to dump the pound after the sudden resignation Thursday of British Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson . 
`` They 'll be looking at levels to sell the dollar , '' says James Scalfaro , a foreign-exchange marketing representative at Bank of Montreal . 
With the pound and the yen lagging behind other major currencies , `` you do n't have a confirmation '' that a sharp dollar downturn is in the works , says Mike Malpede , senior currency analyst at Refco Inc. in Chicago . 
Sterling plunged about four cents Thursday and hit the week 's low of $ 1.5765 when Mr. Lawson resigned from his six-year post because of a policy squabble with other cabinet members . 
If there are any signs that Mr. Major will be less inclined to use interest-rate boosts to rescue the pound from another plunge , that currency is expected to fall sharply . 
The pound was at 2.8896 marks late Friday , off sharply from 2.9511 in New York trading a week earlier . 
The Bank of England indicated its desire to leave its monetary policy unchanged Friday by declining to raise the official 15 % discount-borrowing rate that it charges discount houses , analysts say . 
The yen 's softness , she says , apparently stems from Japanese investors ' interest in buying dollars against the yen to purchase U.S. bond issues and persistent worries about this year 's upheaval in the Japanese government . 
Perhaps even more offensive is the statement , `` It is surprising that George Bush and the White House inner circle would ally themselves with this crabby philosophy . '' 
Quite the contrary -- it results from years of work by members of the National Council on the Handicapped , all appointed by President Reagan . 
You depict the bill as something Democratic leaders `` hoodwinked '' the administration into endorsing . 
The opposite is true : It 's the product of many meetings with administration officials , Senate staffers , advocates , and business and transportation officials . 
Many congressmen are citing the compromise on the `` Americans With Disabilities Act of 1989 '' as a model for bipartisan deliberations . 
We know firsthand the discrimination addressed by the act : to be told there 's no place for your child in school ; to spend lonely hours at home because there is no transportation for someone in a wheelchair ; to be denied employment because you are disabled . 
For the 43 million people with disabilities and their families , this legislation is the `` Emancipation Proclamation . '' 
Giant Group owned 22 % of Rally 's shares before the initial public offering . 
The companies are followed by at least three analysts , and had a minimum five-cent change in actual earnings per share . 
Estimated and actual results involving losses are omitted . 
Jack Davis , Dataproducts ' chairman , said he had n't yet seen the filing and could n't comment . 
Dataproducts had sought a buyer for several months , but it is now in the midst of a restructuring plan and management says the company is no longer for sale . 
The contract was first proposed more than two years ago , but shortly afterward , the colony 's markets were hit hard by the October 1987 global stock crash . 
The subsequent drive to reform Hong Kong 's markets also has embroiled the interest-rate futures contract . 
Many believe that without a healthy futures exchange , Hong Kong 's aspirations to be recognized as an international financial center will suffer . 
It is almost a carbon copy of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange 's Eurodollar contract , which is based on the three-month Eurodollar rate , the rate paid on U.S.-dollar deposits in London banks . 
`` The contract is definitely important to the exchange , '' says Robert Gilmore , executive director of the Securities and Futures Commission . 
After only 17 months , its main contract , based on the Hang Seng index , had grown to be the second-largest stock-index-futures contract in the world . 
Volume for the entire month of September totaled only 21,687 contracts , compared with a daily average of 27,000 in the month before the 1987 crash . 
While Asian markets struggled to cope with the uncertainty caused by the Oct. 13 plunge in New York stock prices , futures trading in Hong Kong was relatively heavy and went smoothly . That was also the case in the days following the June 4 massacre in Beijing , which caused a sharp drop in Hong Kong stock prices . 
The two big banks were instrumental in designing the new contract . 
Even though the currency is pegged to the U.S. dollar , with a fixed exchange rate of HK$ 7.8 to the American currency , the U.S. and Hong Kong economies do n't always move in lock step , making it difficult to predict where interest rates in the colony will go . 
Just a few months ago , the three-month Eurodollar rate was around 9.5 % , while three-month Hibor hit highs above 11 % . 
The wounds from the 1987 crash have n't yet healed , and not all claims against the exchange clearinghouse -- by those who bet the Hang Seng index would fall -- have been settled . 
Companies and financial institutions familiar with Hong Kong remain wary of trading in its futures market . 
He says the contract will be considered a success if it starts trading 500 to 1,000 lots a day . 
Mr. Cheng says the low margin required for trading futures attracted a lot of small investors before the 1987 crash who did n't realize that their risk was virtually unlimited . 
Net income increased 6.7 % to 12.43 billion yen from 11.66 billion yen . 
Per-share net rose to 20.48 yen from 19.51 yen . 
Pretax profit is seen at 45.00 billion yen , down from 47.17 billion yen , while net income is estimated at 23.500 billion yen , up from 23.031 billion yen . 
Sales rose 8.5 % to 195.19 billion yen from 179.916 billion yen . 
Net income surged 10 % to 7.12 billion yen from 6.47 billion yen . 
Per-share net rose to 14.95 yen from 14.44 yen . 
Pretax profit was estimated at 23.0 billion yen , down from 25.51 billion yen , while net income was estimated at 12 billion yen , up from 11.95 billion yen . 
In 1987 , it sold a 2.5 % stake in the Veslefrikk field to the Swedish national oil company , resulting in a $ 7 million after-tax gain . 
Based on the current number of La Jolla shares , that gives the transaction a value of $ 104 million . 
The company said it expects to release third-quarter results in mid-November . 
Results for that quarter included a $ 30 million , or 40 cents a share , write-down associated with the consolidation of a facility . 
I have just returned from France , and the net exchange rate charged on my Visa account was more favorable than I obtained for traveler 's checks in any of the several banks where I converted them . 
Prices fell marginally for fuel and electricity . 
Net fell 1 % to 3.23 billion yen from 3.26 billion yen . 
Pershare net fell to 4.97 yen from 5.40 yen . 
Sales by category rose 24 % to 35.23 billion yen , reflecting increased production in automobile , airconditioner and electric machine industries , which are major users of wire and cable products . 
A ministry official said the growth leads to the conclusion the adverse effects of a consumption tax introduced in April have diminished . 
They say the recent market volatility has underscored the shortcomings of the way many European exchanges trade stocks . 
He says the problems on European exchanges included market-system breakdowns , delayed execution of buy and sell orders and trading suspensions . 
The firm did the trade in seconds on the London stock exchange 's SEAQ automated-quotation system . 
London had some problems , too . 
The London exchange 's electronic price-reporting system provided only indicative , or non-firm , prices for about 40 minutes on Manic Monday . 
Some dealers say other traders were n't picking up their phones . 
In Brussels , which recently spent millions of dollars on a computer-assisted trading system , disgusted traders watched helplessly as a software failure before opening on Manic Monday prevented trading for two days . 
For 48 hours , no one had any idea precisely how much his securities were worth . 
The Belgian computer system finally was repaired and restarted on Tuesday of this week , with the aid of Toronto Stock Exchange officials who developed the system . 
The rally transformed some big sell orders into big buy orders , solving an order-imbalance problem . 
It was a nightmare , '' says Susan Noble , an investment manager at Robert Fleming Holdings Ltd. 's International Investment Management unit in London . 
For one thing , the size of the affected market is enormous -- the European stock markets account for some 22.5 % of global stock market capitalization , with an estimated value of $ 2.175 trillion , according to Morgan Stanley Capital International . 
The Continental markets alone contribute about 14.3 % of estimated world market capitalization of $ 9.671 trillion . 
Against this backdrop , one thing that does n't seem likely to result from 1992 is a single European stock market . 
`` I would be much happier if this volume -LCB- in German stocks -RCB- were in Frankfurt rather than London , '' says Dieter Bauernfeind , head of international equity sales at Dresdner Bank in Frankfurt . 
He acknowledges that spreads `` were too wide and volumes too light '' in the extreme conditions on Manic Monday . 
; at a special meeting on the day of the decline , directors of the Frankfurt Stock Exchange voted to extend their trading hours , although they have n't decided when or by how much . 
A Frankfurt exchange official , acknowledging the brokers ' anxieties , says the market still feels it `` functioned OK during this crash . '' 
The Dutch , who had some trading problems because of insufficient computer capacity , say new equipment to solve the problems ought to be installed within a month . 
Investors can be assured now that this kind of problem can never occur again . '' 
Workers and management , Mr. Tyszkiewicz said , would lose the `` flexibility and diversity '' that has so far allowed them to adapt to local conditions and traditions . 
`` We still have serious differences with the text , '' a British official said , because it provides for a `` regulation of the labor market . '' 
It would force these countries to introduce minimum standards for pay and working hours , and provide for collective bargaining and worker `` participation '' in major corporate decisions . 
Increasing labor costs , Mr. Tyszkiewicz argued , would only put the countries at a further disadvantage in competing in the barrier-free EC market planned for after 1992 . 
The charter would just have to be restricted to a list of workers ' fundamental rights , without seeking to impose any norms . 
This would leave Britain free to adopt the charter after having rebutted the action program . 
They pile out of their truck and furiously begin twisting together steel pipes linking a giant storage tank to the Sharpshooter , a freshly drilled oil well two miles deep . 
A year ago , when almost nothing was happening amid these desolate dunes , `` you 'd spend two days working and two days in the yard , '' he recalls . 
Some in Big Oil are easing the grip on their wallets . 
Investment capital is creeping back , and oil properties are fetching more . 
Oil-tool prices are even edging up . 
Mideast politics have calmed down and the squabbling within the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries seems under control for now . 
`` The fundamentals of supply and demand once again are setting oil prices , '' says Victor Burk , an Arthur Andersen & Co. oil expert . 
After years of wild swings , oil prices over the last 12 months have settled at around $ 15 to $ 20 a barrel . 
The current equilibrium is fragile and depends on steady , strong demand and continued relative harmony within OPEC , producer of more than 40 % of the non-Communist world 's crude . 
A recession or new OPEC blowup could put oil markets right back in the soup . 
Drilling activity is still far below eight years ago , there 's no hiring surge and some companies continue to shrink . 
`` It does n't appear to be getting worse . 
That in itself has got to cause people to feel a little more optimistic , '' says Glenn Cox , the president of Phillips Petroleum Co . 
The same roller-coaster prices that halted U.S. oil exploration and drove many veteran oil men and companies out of the business also played havoc with the nation 's inflation rate , the trade deficit and oil users ' corporate and personal budgets . 
Now , at least some predictability has returned , for everyone from economists to motorists . 
`` I do n't see anything on the horizon that could lead to a precipitous rise in the price . '' 
About a year ago , it ended an on-again , off-again internal production war that had put prices on a roller coaster and pitched oil towns from Houston to Caracas into recession . 
Saudi Arabia , OPEC 's kingpin , abandoned a policy of flooding the market to punish quota-cheaters . 
About the same time , the Iran-Iraq war , which was roiling oil markets , ended . 
It is projected to keep growing by a million barrels a day , or up to 2 % annually , for years to come . 
The resulting firm prices and stability `` will allow both producers and consumers to plan confidently , '' says Saudi Arabian Oil Minister Hisham Nazer . 
OPEC Secretary-General Subroto explains : Consumers offer security of markets , while OPEC provides security of supply . 
At its November meeting , it will try to revise its quotas to satisfy Persian Gulf members that can produce far more oil than their allotments . 
Being held well below capacity greatly irritates them , and has led to widespread cheating . 
OPEC has repeatedly raised its self-imposed production ceiling to legitimize some of that unauthorized output . 
Patrick J . Early , president of Amoco Corp. 's oil-production unit , says that despite recent stability , he plans continued tightening of costs and exploration spending . 
The view of some others in Big Oil , he maintains , `` is very much -LCB- similar to -RCB- Amoco 's outlook . '' 
Just this week Mobil Corp. disclosed new cutbacks in its domestic exploration and production operations . 
`` Talk is that everybody is going to drill more wells , '' says foreman Tommy Folsom . 
`` We went to six companies over two days pitching the prospect , '' says Tim Parker , a Santa Fe exploration manager . `` Five were interested . '' 
Mitchell will get a half-interest in the oil . 
Now `` everybody is a lot more optimistic . '' 
`` If you know you 've got stability in price , you can do things you would n't do with the volatility of the past few years . '' 
Some drill-bit prices have risen 5 % in the past month . 
In the Gulf of Mexico , a boat to deliver supplies to offshore rigs now costs around $ 3,000 a day , up nearly 60 % since June . 
Some service boats recently were auctioned for about $ 1.7 million each , up from less than $ 1 million two years ago . 
At the bottom of the slump , Schlumberger Inc. was discounting 75 % on an electronic evaluation of a well ; now it discounts about 50 % , drillers say . 
Most oil companies , when they set exploration and production budgets for this year , forecast revenue of $ 15 for each barrel of crude produced . 
Prices have averaged more than $ 2 a barrel higher than that -- not a windfall , but at least a pleasant bonus for them . 
It says 40 % of those surveyed report that 1989 exploration spending will exceed 1988 's . 
Texaco , thinking in terms of $ 18-to-$19 oil for 1990 , may raise spending , especially for low-risk prospects , an official says . 
Outside investors , scarce since '86 , are edging back . 
Although `` it 's still difficult to raise money for a pure wildcat program , '' says William Thomas , a Texas Commerce Bank official in Houston , `` institutions are starting to see there are cycles to these things , and this one is beginning to turn . '' 
The appetite for oil-service stocks has been especially strong , although some got hit yesterday when Shearson Lehman Hutton cut its short-term investment ratings on them . 
Contractors such as Parker Drilling Co. are raising cash again through stock offerings , and for the first time in years , two oil-service companies recently went public . 
-LRB- They are Grace Energy Corp. of Dallas and Marine Drilling Co. of Houston . -RRB- 
Arthur Andersen , the accounting firm , has increased its energy staff 10 % in a year . 
Already `` it 's hard to get people . 
They 're so busy , '' says one Santa Fe drilling foreman here . 
Mr. Ramirez , who arrived late at the Sharpshooter with his crew because he had started early in the morning setting up tanks at another site , just got the first raise he can remember in eight years , to $ 8.50 an hour from $ 8 . 
Norman Young , a `` mud-logger '' at the Sniper well , has worked all but about nine days of this year . 
Last year , `` I was off a straight month , then one time for two to three weeks and another two to three weeks , '' he says . 
`` I think it 's on the way back now . 
No major booms , no major setbacks , '' he predicts . 
Business has been good enough that he just took a spur-of-the-moment weekend trip to the mountain area of Cloudcroft , something `` I have n't done in years . '' 
Only 14,505 wells , including 4,900 dry holes , were drilled for oil and natural gas in the U.S. in the first nine months of the year , down 22.4 % from the like 1988 period . 
According to Baker Hughes Inc. , 992 rotary rigs were at work in the U.S. last week , up from the year-ago count of 933 . 
-LRB- In 1981 , before the bust , the rig count was above 4,000 . -RRB- 
Grace Energy just two weeks ago hauled a rig here 500 miles from Caspar , Wyo. , to drill the Bilbrey well , a 15,000-foot , $ 1-million-plus natural gas well . 
After 11:30 a.m. or so `` we have them standing and waiting , '' she says , as she whips out orders for hamburgers and the daily special -LRB- grilled roast beef , cheese and jalapeno pepper sandwich on whole wheat , potato salad , baked beans and pudding , plus coffee or iced tea . 
He started Arrow Roustabouts Inc. a year ago with a loan from a friend , since repaid , and now employs 15 . 
`` I want to add one more truck , '' Mr. Huber says . 
I sense that it 's going to continue to grow . 
That 's the word . 
Accepted theories state that investors require higher returns on riskier investments . 
I believe the risk for each individual stock selected by your pros is very large . 
Your hypothetical investor is simply being compensated for taking on this added risk . 
A four-stock portfolio is still exposed to a great deal of unnecessary risk . 
This means the returns can vary a great deal . 
Mr. Dorfman provides confirming evidence of this phenomenon when he reports that your staff of dart throwers would have accumulated only $ 112,383 by randomly selecting four new stocks to be held in a portfolio each month . 
The fact that stock pickers have bested a randomly selected portfolio in eight of 12 months has no bearing on the efficient-market theory . 
James Morgan 's pick for October -- Dynascan -- is a substantial 35 % riskier than the market portfolio ; his lauded Thermo Electron pick is 40 % riskier . 
; his lauded Thermo Electron pick is 40 % riskier . 
Now it 's getting downright dangerous . 
Already , the stolen tickets have been used for flights all over the world . 
When he initially refused , he says , they stabbed him in the back and made off with $ 2,000 and 280 blank tickets . 
`` They said they wanted to show me how serious they were , '' he says . 
At El Monte Travel Center in El Monte , Calif. , customers now can get in only through a buzzer and lock system . 
`` It 's hard to deal with clients this way in a service business , '' says Ralph `` Bud '' Conner , owner of the agency , which was robbed of 180 blank tickets and $ 850 last month . 
Agents say airlines , which track ticket numbers of all stolen tickets , should be doing more to catch the thieves by confiscating the tickets when they 're used . `` They have the most sophisticated computers in the world , '' says Mr. LLerena . `` They ought to be able to do this . '' But airlines say it would be too expensive and cause too many delays if they started using computerized scanners to check tickets at the gate . 
`` They have the most sophisticated computers in the world , '' says Mr. LLerena . 
`` They ought to be able to do this . '' 
Now , they 're charging as little $ 3 a day . 
`` If they 're telling the truth now , then they 've been charging 300 % more than what is reasonable , '' says Steve Gardner , an assistant state attorney general in Texas . 
Some flight attendants on charter planes are putting in 20-hour work days , the study found . 
`` At the end of their day , they are zombies , '' says John Galipault , president of the Aviation Safety Institute , a public-interest group in Worthington , Ohio . 
`` They have to work such long hours and then we expect them to be heroes if there 's an evacuation . '' 
In response to the study , the FAA says it is considering changing its policy -- or lack of it -- on flight attendants . 
The agency may not have much choice : A congressional bill has been introduced that would force the agency to limit flight attendant duty time to 14 hours on U.S. flights and 16 hours on international trips . 
Simulated golf games , in which players hit golf balls into nets , have been installed at airports in Denver and Pittsburgh ... . 
The cheapest , among 100 cities surveyed , was $ 5.11 in El Paso , Texas . 
Why do you maintain the House-passed capital-gains plan is a `` temporary '' reduction when it is not ? 
Your Sept. 29 page-one story on the House-passed capital-gains plan is a good example . 
You lead readers to believe that the House reduced the capital-gains tax for two years only . 
You virtually ignore the tax-reducing power of indexation , which in many cases is more substantial than a lower rate . 
I hope that you begin talking about the plan 's permanent and , in my view , most beneficial feature -- indexation . 
The reduction eases the burden on portfolio changes and frees capital to seek more productive or more appropriate uses . 
A large part of the long-term appreciation of assets reflects inflation , and the taxation of inflation-created capital gains is confiscation . 
Does the Journal really believe that people ignore the prospect of having a substantial part of their capital confiscated when they decide whether to save or how to invest ? 
Real , aftertax returns from financial assets are on the order of 1 % or 2 % a year . 
The capital-gains tax reform is a step toward correcting one of the gravest structural weaknesses of the U.S. economy , the closely connected phenomena of low savings rates , weak capital formation and high capital costs . 
Grace said it did n't invest any additional capital in the venture , which will be known as Grace-Sierra Horticultural Products Co . 
The final rule wo n't require such a breakdown of the allowances for loan losses , which appears on the balance sheet . 
It will require companies to spell out in more detail collateral polices and concentrations of credit risk for all financial instruments . 
The thrift and the holders had suspended their lawsuits as part of the agreement . 
Laboratory tests showed that non-toxic versions of the poisons are capable of inducing an immunity to whooping cough , the researchers reported in this week 's issue of the journal Science . 
Unfortunately , the toxin is also poisonous . The reactions stem from the fact that the vaccine contains multiple copies of the whole Bordetella pertussis bacterium , which causes whooping cough . This bacterium produces a toxin that , if used as a vaccine , can induce immunity to whooping cough . 
Unfortunately , the toxin is also poisonous . 
The researchers reported they have been able to pluck the five genes that produced the toxin out of the pertussis bacterium . It turned out that although it took all five genes to produce the toxin , only one was responsible for the toxin 's virulence . Ordinarily in genetic engineering each of these genes , minus the one that caused the virulence , would have been transferred to another bacterium , called E. coli , which would then produce a nonvirulent version of the toxin . The researchers said they did this , but the toxin did n't induce immunity to whooping cough . The scientists then took the five toxin genes and triggered a mutation in the one gene that caused virulence . Then , using a new technique -LRB- called homologous recombination -RRB- for introducing genes into cells , they transferred all five genes to bacteria closely related to the pertussis organism . These bacterial `` cousins '' ordinarily do n't make the toxin . But the genes were accompanied by a piece of DNA , called a promoter , that turns the genes on . The new bacteria recipients of the genes began producing pertussis toxin which , because of the mutant virulence gene , was no longer toxic . 
It turned out that although it took all five genes to produce the toxin , only one was responsible for the toxin 's virulence . 
The researchers said they did this , but the toxin did n't induce immunity to whooping cough . 
Experiments showed that the new , non-virulent toxin is capable of inducing immunity , according to the researchers from the Selavo Research Center in Siena , Italy , the Medical College of Wisconsin in Milwaukee and the Japanese National Institutes of Health . 
The original bank in Frankfurt closed in 1901 after the death of Wilhelm Carl von Rothschild , and the family 's banking activities focused on London and Paris . 
Although its palatial residence was destroyed by bombs during World War II , the Rothschilds ' place in Frankfurt 's history is still recalled by the city park and a street bearing the Rothschild name . 
The family was in Allied countries during both World War I and the long period of economic strife of the 1920s . 
During the Third Reich , the Rothschilds were a target of Nazi propaganda against Jewish financiers . 
The persecution pursued the Rothschilds across Europe as the Nazis grabbed countries , confiscating the family 's property in the process . 
`` It would be surprising if they did n't come to Frankfurt in time for 1992 , and they bring an interesting tradition . But the market really is n't going to be stood on its head , '' said a banker at one of Frankfurt 's Big Three banks . 
The new representative office , with one manager and two assistants -- none a member of the Rothschild family -- will carry out no banking operations of its own . 
He left his job as general manager of Shearson Lehman Hutton Holdings Inc. 's Frankfurt office because , he says , `` When the Rothschilds called , I could n't resist . '' 
The Paris bank does n't publish that figure . 
Among them , he says , is the family 's traditional ties to old wealth and decision-makers in banking and industry throughout Europe and beyond . 
As at the Zurich bank , the minimum investment for individuals will be high : about a million German marks -LRB- $ 538,000 -RRB- , three times what many other West German investment banks require . 
Warren Buffett has been on record as opposing stock-index futures since their inception in 1982 . 
One group says the futures contribute to stock market volatility ; the other contends that futures are a sideshow of speculation that detracts from the stock market 's basic function of raising capital . 
; the other contends that futures are a sideshow of speculation that detracts from the stock market 's basic function of raising capital . 
`` Before futures , '' says New York investor Michael Harkins , `` you actually had to pay attention to whether the thing you were buying had any intrinsic value . '' 
When Chicago futures prices jump up or down , the New York Stock Exchange follows . 
`` The fundamentals do n't change in an hour , '' he says . 
`` I think they should close down the futures exchange and then we could get back to investing . '' 
Although index arbitrage is said to add liquidity to markets , John Bachmann , managing partner of Edward D. Jones , says too much liquidity is n't a good thing 
It 's too disruptive , '' he says . 
`` It is n't investing . '' 
Defenders say futures make markets more efficient and provide ways for investors to reduce risks . 
They note that stocks experienced volatile swings long before futures . 
Futures , he says , merely cut down on trading costs . 
Since stock-index arbitrage merely narrows the gap between prices in the futures and stock markets , it ca n't add to volatility , he says . 
`` If futures are n't permitted here , we 'll take it to Australia or Tokyo . '' 
If managers fear that the overall stock market will fall , but want to continue owning stocks , they can hold on to specific stocks and sell a corresponding amount of futures contracts . 
If managers fear that the overall stock market will fall , but want to continue owning stocks , they can hold on to specific stocks and sell a corresponding amount of futures contracts . 
Margin requirements for speculators on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange are currently about 7 % . 
`` For $ 10 million , you can move $ 100 million of stocks , '' a specialist on the Big Board gripes . 
`` That gives futures traders a lot more power . '' 
`` It took away the need to know the bad third-quarter report of IBM , for example , '' Mr. Kegler says . 
Stockholders , as a group , can win , because they own a share of corporate earnings , which can grow and boost stock prices . 
`` You do n't own anything , '' says Stephen Boesel , a money manager for T. Rowe Price in Baltimore . 
`` You 're making a pure bet on the market . 
An EC spokesman said the two companies will be notified so they can begin negotiations with Brussels on how to modify the pact . 
The two shared results from this route swap , and followed rules on ticket pricing . 
The airlines presented it as offering consumers more choice and better flight connections . 
An Air Inter spokesman said , `` Because they -LCB- the EC -RCB- have doubts , we will work again on the text and the contents of the accord . 
The charges said that one worker suffered permanent brain damage from mercury exposure . 
The company could be fined a maximum of $ 10,000 , or double the profit . 
GM is close to completing a friendly deal with Jaguar that is likely to involve an eventual 30 % stake and joint manufacturing ventures . 
Since Tuesday , the shares have gained nearly 4 % . 
`` We will not go over a certain level , '' said David N. McCammon , Ford 's vice president for finance , at a news conference yesterday in Dearborn , Mich . 
`` There 's some price at which we 'd stop bidding . '' 
He would n't specify what it was . 
As Jaguar 's biggest holder and Britain 's biggest car maker , Ford could turn up the heat by convening a special shareholders ' meeting and urging holders to drop the limits early . 
It has relinquished a golden share only once before -- during British Petroleum Co. 's # 2.5 billion -LRB- $ 4 billion -RRB- takeover of Britoil PLC in 1988 . 
This week , the U.S. auto giant paid for 10 House of Commons members and two House of Lords members to fly to Detroit and tour its operations there . 
He said Jaguar `` should n't be smothered by anyone else , '' recalled one participant . 
The Conservatives do n't dare jeopardize marginal Tory seats in Coventry , where Jaguar has headquarters , nor can the government easily back down on promised protection for a privatized company while it proceeds with controversial plans to privatize most of Britain 's water and electricity industries . 
Latin American markets continued their recovery after a weak start to the year , SKF said . 
Sales of rolling bearings increased 19 % to 15.7 billion kronor from 13.2 billion kronor in the corresponding period the previous year . 
This may have been true 10 years ago , but times have changed , even in Utah . 
Mr. Redford no longer stands out as an extremist . 
He has not changed , but those around him have . 
Many of his views on the protection of wilderness areas , rivers and canyons are now embraced by mainstream , conservative Utahans . 
While Utah is not yet a haven for environmentalism , public views toward the environment have significantly improved . 
In one of the most conservative , Republican states in the entire nation , the greening of Robert Redford 's neighbors is the real story that Mr. Tomsho missed . 
An excellent environmental actor he is . 
Mr. Redford is slowing down a mindless , speeding maniac known as the progress of mankind . 
These critics object to Mr. Bush 's participation in a meeting that includes Nicaraguan President Daniel Ortega among the guests . 
Mr. Windsor , among other analysts connected to the conservative Heritage Foundation , fears the gathering of 18 leaders , mostly from Central American nations , will force Mr. Bush `` to explain and redeem himself '' in the wake of charges that the U.S. failed to do enough to aid the removal of Panamanian dictator Manuel Noriega . 
The administration proposed only $ 57 million in so-called economic support funds for Costa Rica this year , down from the $ 90 million the U.S. provided last year . 
Mr. Arias 's long-time refusal to support the U.S. 's campaign against leftist Nicaragua earned him the ire of the Reagan White House . 
But we still see this as an opportunity to discuss many , many very important issues . `` There wo n't be any formal resolutions or communiques , I do n't think . 
They want a 24-hour library . 
Membership has since swelled to between 20 and 25 . 
Geeks , by at least one definition , are chicken-mutilating circus freaks . 
One of its `` more ambitious goals '' is to get Jaime Escalante , the Los Angeles high-school mathematics teacher featured in the film `` Stand and Deliver , '' to come to Harvard for a guest lecture . 
Hopefully , I 'd find someone in psychobiology who wanted to know more about mathematics . '' 
Typical is Ente Nazionale Idrocarburi , Italy 's state-owned energy company , which not long ago acquired through its AGIP oil subsidiary a 5 % share in the consortium accounting for half of Nigeria 's oil output . 
AGIP already has an oil stake in Libya . 
He made a special trip to examine U.S. environmental trends because they are often followed in Europe . 
ENI needs to know what 's coming as it prepares to spend some $ 1.3 billion on upgrading its refineries , he says . 
Alaska 's Arctic National Wildlife Refuge alone is thought to hide more than three billion barrels of oil . 
A huge production system built in the sea off Santa Barbara and ashore is sitting idle . 
More than half the domestic drilling now under way is for gas , partly on the assumption that demand will rise for a fuel that is cleaner to burn than either oil or coal . 
Santa Fe International Corp. , which is owned by Kuwait -LRB- and is n't related to Santa Fe Southern Pacific 's unit -RRB- , is stepping up development of a well off Texas ' Matagorda Island where it found gas in 1987 . 
`` We could have sat on it longer , but the impetus is to get the gas to the marketplace , '' says Richard Poole , senior scout for Santa Fe International . 
`` We 're trying to get it on line as soon as possible now . '' 
They lay out a clear timetable and methodology for liberalizing the system of setting prices , breaking up huge industrial monopolies and putting unprofitable state-owned companies out of business . 
Most of the measures would probably only start to have an effect on beleaguered Soviet consumers in two to three years at the earliest . 
The document proposes breaking up the monolithic system of state-owned enterprises and farms and allowing a big private sector to flourish , helped by tough anti-monopoly legislation . 
The economy would be thrown open to numerous types of ownership between now and 1992 , including factories leased by workers or owned by shareholders , cooperatives and joint ventures . 
Some forms of private property would be sanctioned . 
Such moves would greatly reduce the power of government ministries , who now jealously guard their turf and are seen as one of the major obstacles blocking economic reform . 
By the end of next year , all loss-making state enterprises would be put out of business or handed over to workers who would buy or lease them or turn them into cooperatives . 
Similar steps would be taken to liquidate unprofitable state and collective farms by the end of 1991 . 
A unified system of taxation should be introduced rapidly . 
To mop up some of the 300 billion rubles in circulation , the government should encourage home ownership , including issuing bonds that guarantee holders the right to purchase an apartment . 
Departing from decades of Soviet dogma , the new system would lead to big differences in pay between workers and almost certainly to unemployment . 
To cushion the blows , the government would introduce a minimum wage and unemployment benefits . 
Consumers would still be able to buy some food and household goods at subsidized prices , but luxury and imported items , including food , would be sold at market prices . 
Wholesale prices would be divided into three categories : raw materials sold at fixed prices close to world levels ; government-set procurement prices for a small number of key products ; and free prices for everything else to be determined by contracts between suppliers and purchasers . 
Inflation-adjusted social benefits would ensure that the poor and elderly do n't suffer unduly . 
Soviet companies would face fewer obstacles for exports and could even invest their hard currency abroad . 
Foreigners would receive greater incentives to invest in the U.S.S.R. 
Alongside the current non-convertible ruble , a second currency would be introduced that could be freely exchanged for dollars and other Western currencies . 
A domestic foreign exchange market would be set up as part of an overhaul of the nation 's banking system . 
I 'll admit there 's nothing wrong That I ever do find , But it 's nice when people say I appear mechanically inclined . 
Mr. Engelken , now a transit-association executive in Washington , D.C. , and Mr. Thomson , a paper-products salesman in Montvale , N.J. , had n't even talked to each other . 
His morning paper , the Washington Post , even carries a sports column called `` Jurisprudence '' that recounts the latest arrests and convictions of players and team managers . 
Like many sports buffs , Mr. Engelken has turned cynic . 
`` The Giants got swamped in the second game , 100 , and trailed 4-1 going into the bottom of the ninth of the third and deciding game . 
The Giants scored once and had runners on second -LCB- Whitey Lockman -RCB- and third -LCB- Clint Hartung -RCB- as Bobby Thomson advanced to the plate . '' 
Mr. Thomson , a tall , Scottish-born , right-hand hitter , stepped into the batter 's box . 
`` Thomson took a called strike , '' Mr. Engelken recounts . 
The tension mounted as Ralph Branca , again on the mound , stared down the batter . 
He wound up and let loose a fastball . 
`` Giants fans went into euphoria , '' says Mr. Engelken . 
Mr. Thomson played outfield and third base until 1960 , posting a lifetime .270 batting average and chalking up 264 home runs before retiring and going into paper-goods sales . Mr. Engelken moved south to Washington , but he took with him enduring memories of the homer of 1951 . 
When his wife , Betsy , came down the aisle on their wedding day in 1966 , Mr. Engelken -- no slouch on the romantic front -- gave her the ultimate compliment : `` You look prettier than Bobby Thomson 's home run . '' 
The couple 's first dog , Homer , was named after the Great Event , though unwitting friends assumed he was the namesake of the poet . 
Mr. Thomson sent off a card to Martha : `` It does n't seem like 25 years since I hit that home run to celebrate your birth , '' it read . 
She had an idea . 
The papers would be handed over at a bank of telephone booths just off Exit 10 . 
She crouched down by the car window and addressed her husband with her favorite nickname : 
`` The hero of my youth , the one person in history I 'd most like to meet . 
Keep your Thomas Jeffersons , or St. Augustines or Michelangelos ; I 'd take baseball 's Flying Scot without hesitation . '' 
; I 'd take baseball 's Flying Scot without hesitation . '' 
`` I thought it was in the upper deck , '' said Bobby Thomson , now 66 years old . 
`` I never thought it would become so momentous , '' Bobby remarked . 
It was worth it , just for the look on Albert 's face . '' 
His hero signed photographs of the homer and diplomatically called Ralph Branca `` a very fine pitcher . '' 
His mail regularly recalls `` my one event , '' and has been growing in recent years . 
My mind was miles north at a place called Coogan 's Bluff , where a real sports hero had captured the imagination of a kid who never fully grew up and is all the richer for it . 
`` Real heroes exist . 
You might not find one in the ` Jurisprudence ' column . 
A spokesman for Southam declined to comment on the price the company is seeking or on estimates of the paper 's annual losses , which most analysts place at between C$ 4 million and C$ 7 million . 
This year , it has moved to cut costs in its newspaper division through layoffs and asset sales , while reaching joint venture and acquisition agreements in other areas . 
In the year-earlier quarter , the tax credit was $ 3.3 million . 
Sales rose 8 % to $ 368.5 million from $ 340.7 million . 
In the year-earlier period , the company had net of $ 77.2 million , or $ 3.68 a share , and a tax credit of $ 7.7 million . 
By this month , it had more than doubled . 
`` It 's all I think about or talk about . '' 
For the government , it has become a highly volatile political issue . 
The result is that those rich enough to own any real estate at all have boosted their holdings substantially . 
For those with no holdings , the prospects of buying a home are ever slimmer . 
Former National Assemblyman Hong Sa-Duk , now a radio commentator , says the problem is intolerable for many people . 
`` I 'm afraid of a popular revolt if this situation is n't corrected , '' he adds . 
The proposed legislation is aimed at rectifying some of the inequities in the current land-ownership system . 
Highlights of the bills , as currently framed , are : -- A restriction on the amount of real estate one family can own , to 660 square meters in the nation 's six largest cities , but more in smaller cities and rural areas . The government will penalize offenders , but wo n't confiscate property . -- A tax of between 3 % and 6 % on property holdings that exceed the governmentset ceiling . -- Taxes of between 15 % and 50 % a year on `` excessive '' profits from the resale of property , or the sale of idle land to the government . The government defines excessive profits as those above the average realized for other similar-sized properties in an area . -- Grace periods ranging from two to five years before the full scope of the penalties takes effect . 
Some want lower limits on house sizes ; others insist on progressively higher taxation for larger homes and lots . 
; others insist on progressively higher taxation for larger homes and lots . 
Led by the Federation of Korean Industries , the critics are lobbying for the government to weaken its proposed restrictions and penalties . 
`` There is no violation of the capitalistic principle of private property in what we are doing , '' says Lee Kyu Hwang , director of the government 's Land Bureau , which drafted the bills . 
The chief culprits , he says , are big companies and business groups that buy huge amounts of land `` not for their corporate use , but for resale at huge profit . '' 
The government 's Office of Bank Supervision and Examination told the National Assembly this month that in the first half of 1989 , the nation 's 30 largest business groups bought real estate valued at $ 1.5 billion . 
Banks , investment and credit firms would be permitted to own land equivalent in value to 50 % of their capital -- currently the proportion is 75 % . 
The maximum allowable property holdings for insurance companies would be reduced to 10 % of their total asset value , down from 15 % currently . 
At best , she realizes , they will rise more slowly -- more slowly , she hopes , than her family 's income . 
In papers filed with the federal district court in Pittsburgh , the Justice Department alleged that the ordinance , by limiting the number of group homes that can be established in the township , makes housing unavailable on account of handicap . 
The censorship is enforced through terrorism and assassination . 
In the past 10 years about 50 journalists have been silenced forever , murdered . 
Journalists and their families are constantly threatened as are the newspaper distribution outlets . 
Distribution centers are bombed , and advertisers are intimidated . 
Censorship is imposed by terrorism . 
The solidarity of the uncensored media world-wide against drug terrorism is the only way press freedom can survive . 
Even now , the American attack upon this tremendous problem is timid in relation to the magnitude of the threat . 
I can attest that a recent Colombian visitor to the U.S. was offered drugs three times in the few blocks ' walk between Grand Central Terminal and the Waldorf Astoria Hotel in midtown Manhattan . 
Colombia alone -- its government , its people , its newspapers -- does not have the capacity to fight this battle successfully . 
All drug-consuming countries must jointly decide to combat and punish the consumers and distributors of drugs . 
The U.S. , as the major drug consumer , should lead this joint effort . 
Luxurious homes and ranches have been raided by the military authorities , and sophisticated and powerful communications equipment have been seized . 
More than 300 planes and helicopters have been impounded at airports , and a large number of vehicles and launches has been confiscated . 
Much has been accomplished and public opinion decisively supports the government and the army -- but , on the other hand , none of the key drug barons have been captured . 
In my opinion , this is not true . 
Laundered drug money has served only to increase , unrealistically , the price of real estate , creating serious problems for low-income people who aspire to own their own homes . 
The price of coffee has gone down almost 45 % since the beginning of the year , to the lowest level -LRB- after inflation -RRB- since the Great Depression . 
Market conditions point to even lower prices next year . 
The 27-year-old coffee cartel had to be formally dissolved this summer . 
Our coffee growers face reductions in their income , and this tempts them to contemplate substituting coca crops for coffee . 
A just price and an open market for what Colombian produces and exports should be the policy of the U.S. . 
Each gram of cocaine consumed is a deadly bullet against those in our country and in the rest of the world who fight this terrible scourge . 
A crusade of NO to the consumption of drugs is imperative . 
Thirty-four thousand of its children live in foster homes , while 50,000 residents have no homes at all . 
Its tax base is shrinking , a $ 1 billion budget deficit looms , and the city faces contract negotiations with all major municipal unions next year . 
After 25 years in city politics , David Dinkins remains an enigma . 
While he is widely described as a man with deep convictions , he has few major political programs that he can call his own . 
Asked about his greatest achievement in public life , he first speaks about the quality of his staff . 
They wonder whether he can be firm with his longtime allies , including union leaders and political cronies who may seek a place at the trough . 
They wonder whether he has the economic know-how to steer the city through a possible fiscal crisis , and they wonder who will be advising him . 
Will he , if he wins , be in the thrall of the most liberal of his allies , who advocate such policies as rent control for commercial buildings , or will he tilt toward the real-estate interests that have funneled money into his campaign ? 
`` A lot of people think I will give away the store , but I can assure you I will not , '' he says . 
`` I am aware we have real budgetary problems . '' 
Renewed efforts to fight drugs and crime will be costly . 
New York State Comptroller Edward Regan predicts a $ 1.3 billion budget gap for the city 's next fiscal year , a gap that could grow if there is a recession . 
If elected , Mr. Dinkins will probably have no choice but to raise taxes on overburdened businesses or cut spending in already under-serviced neighborhoods . 
`` His supporters are not venal , but their solution to everything will be to spend more money , and he wo n't have any money . '' 
Instead of focusing on the financial future , Mr. Dinkins has sold himself as a unifier for a city recently touched by racial violence and as a soothing antidote to 12 years of commotion generated by Mayor Koch . 
`` The thing about the Dinkins candidacy is that it offers hope to a broad range of people , '' says Meyer Frucher , a real-estate executive and former aide to Gov. Mario Cuomo . 
`` It is a feel-good candidacy . '' 
He is an avuncular figure who remembers the birthdays of colleagues ' children , opens doors for women , and almost never has a bad word to say about anybody . 
More important , he emerged as a peacemaker last summer after the Central Park rape of a white jogger -- in which a group of Harlem teens was charged -- and the racial murder of a black teen-ager in the white Brooklyn neighborhood of Bensonhurst . 
Rather than scaring off white voters , as many predicted he would , Mr. Dinkins attracted many whites precisely because of his reputation for having a cool head . 
Over the last few weeks , he has frittered away roughly half of what was once a 33-point lead in the polls over Mr. Giuliani . 
A story about how he mishandled the sale to his son of his stock in a media company controlled by his political patron Percy Sutton was allowed to fester a full week before Mr. Dinkins faced the media . 
He has canceled numerous campaign appointments and was largely inaccessible to the media until the stock story broke . 
Mr. Sutton recalls : `` When I left , I sat down with Charlie -LCB- Rangel -RCB- , Basil -LCB- Paterson -RCB- and David , and David said , ` Who will run for borough president ? ' And I said , ` You will . ' '' 
Colleagues today recall with some humor how meetings would crawl into the early morning hours as Mr. Dinkins would march his staff out of board meetings and into his private office to discuss , en masse , certain controversial proposals . 
On the campaign stump , he often points out that he was the only Board of Estimate member to vote against a controversial real-estate project at Manhattan 's Columbus Circle . But board members say he took so long to decide how to vote that by the time he decided , it was too late to try to draw other members to his position . 
He would have got a lot more done if he made up his mind faster . '' Says one city official : `` Everybody else had brought in the wagons and made their deal . 
He would have got a lot more done if he made up his mind faster . '' 
`` I had some problem from time to time on the length of time he would take to make up his mind , '' Mr. Ferrer admits , but he maintains that he did n't delay his support of Mr. Dinkins and that he backs the Democratic candidate enthusiastically . 
`` We did n't rubber-stamp everything that came to us , '' Mr. Lynch says . 
Some supporters were stunned this summer when Mr. Dinkins suggested weakening the law forbidding public employees to go on strike . 
He withdrew the remark . 
When he later sided with striking hospital workers , some allies cringed a little more , concerned that Mr. Dinkins was setting the wrong tone for coming contract negotiations with city employees . 
That announcement was roundly criticized by Mayor Koch -- who has endorsed Mr. Dinkins -- because the city faces a garbage crisis and has already spent $ 5 million planning for an incinerator that would be scrapped under Mr. Dinkins 's proposal . 
He favors a form of commercial rent control , which the financial community believes would make it more difficult to attract investment in the city . 
In the midst of a labor shortage , he proposes linking city subsidies to businesses to their record of hiring New York City residents . 
With an untrained local labor pool , many experts believe , that policy could drive businesses from the city . 
Many economic-development officials say the Koch administration 's aggressive approach helped save 5,000 Chase Manhattan Bank jobs from moving across the Hudson . 
Steven Spinola , president of the Real Estate Board of New York , an industry organization , says Mr. Dinkins 's `` economic development program is shortsighted , but when it comes down to it , he can be reasonable . '' 
The key man seems to be the campaign manager , Mr. Lynch . 
`` If any of us think we 're going to sidetrack David 's determination to be the best possible mayor because of his obligations to us , we are making a sad mistake . '' 
Adds Ms. Messinger , who is expected to win the borough president 's job Mr. Dinkins is vacating , `` You have to remember David is a pragmatist . '' 
He is taken aback in an interview when asked whether , as mayor , he plans on reforming the political `` fiefdoms '' that perpetuate the monumental ineffectiveness of New York 's school system . 
`` I will sit down and talk some of the problems out , but take on the political system ? Uh-uh , '' he says with a shake of the head . 
The former U.S. attorney , who prosecuted targets ranging from Mafia dons to Wall Street executives , has succeeded in raising questions about Mr. Dinkins 's ethical standards , but so far has failed to generate excitement about his own candidacy . 
As a Republican in an overwhelmingly Democratic city , Mr. Giuliani has an inherent handicap . 
As a first-time candidate , he has been slow to learn the nuances of New York City politicking . 
`` The bottom line is that he is a very genuine and decent guy , '' says Malcolm Hoenlein , a Jewish community leader . 
A side porch was ripped away . 
The chimney is a pile of bricks on the front lawn . 
The remainder of the house leans precariously against a sturdy oak tree . 
Some of the funds will used to demolish unstable buildings and clear sites for future construction . 
`` That 's my job -- get -LCB- policyholders -RCB- what they 're entitled to , '' says Bill Schaeffer , a claims supervisor who flew in from Aetna 's Bridgeport , Conn. , office . 
Once inside , she spends nearly four hours measuring and diagramming each room in the 80-year-old house , gathering enough information to estimate what it would cost to rebuild it . 
She snaps photos of the buckled floors and the plaster that has fallen away from the walls . 
Others grab books , records , photo albums , sofas and chairs , working frantically in the fear that an aftershock will jolt the house again . 
A few years ago , Mrs. Hammack insisted on buying earthquake insurance for this house , which had been converted into apartments . 
Only about 20 % of California home and business owners carried earthquake coverage . 
`` It really brings you down to a human level , '' she says . 
If you do n't , you ca n't do your job . '' 
Most companies still are trying to sort through the wreckage caused by Hurricane Hugo in the Carolinas last month . 
It could take six to nine months to handle the earthquake-related claims . 
He returned home last Thursday , packed a bag with fresh clothes and reported for duty Friday in Walnut Creek . 
`` You have to count everything . '' 
To do that , they must think in terms of sheetrock by the square foot , carpeting by the square yard , wallpaper by the roll , molding by the linear foot . 
Using a calculator and a unit-price guide for such jobs as painting , plumbing and roofing in each major region of the country , adjusters can figure out the value of a home in today 's market and what it would cost to rebuild it . 
When Aetna adjuster Bill Schaeffer visited a retired couple in Oakland last Thursday , he found them living in a mobile home parked in front of their yard . The house itself , located about 50 yards from the collapsed section of double-decker highway Interstate 880 , was pushed about four feet off its foundation and then collapsed into its basement . 
Four years ago , she was managing a film-processing shop and was totally bored . 
A friend mentioned that she might want to look into a position at Aetna , if she was interested in a job that would constantly challenge her . 
She signed up , starting as an `` inside '' adjuster , who settles minor claims and does a lot of work by phone . 
A year later , she moved to the commercial property claims division . 
That was followed by three months at the Aetna Institute in Hartford , where she was immersed in learning how to read and interpret policies . 
Recently , a contractor saved her from falling three stories as she investigated what remained of an old Victorian house torched by an arsonist . 
`` I owe that contractor . 
I really do , '' she says . 
The ground shakes underneath her . 
It is an aftershock , one of about 2,000 since the earthquake , and it makes her uneasy . 
They would like to retrieve some appliances on the second floor , but wonder if it 's safe to venture inside . Ms. Johnson tells them that , if the appliances ca n't be salvaged , their policy covers the replacement cost . 
Ms. Johnson tells them that , if the appliances ca n't be salvaged , their policy covers the replacement cost . 
Mr. Hammack is eager to know what Aetna will pay for the house , which has to come down . 
`` When will I get that check for a million dollars ? '' he jokes . 
In this case , that 's about $ 250,000 . 
It suddenly dawns on Mr. Hammack that rebuilding the house in Los Gatos , an affluent community in Santa Clara County , may cost more than Aetna 's policy will pay . 
`` We can lose money on this , '' he says . 
Even Ms. Johnson herself made that assumption . 
`` I always knew that the ` Big One ' was coming , but not during my lifetime , '' she says . 
Now she says she 's thinking of contacting her own insurance agent . 
She lives in Oakland , a community hit hard by the earthquake . 
She did n't have hot water for five days . 
The apartment she shares with a 12-year-old daughter and her sister was rattled , books and crystal hit the floor , but nothing was severely damaged . 
Her sister , Cynthia , wishes Toni had a different job . 
`` We worry about her out there , '' Cynthia says . 
`` I realized I could n't waste this water when there are people in Watsonville who do n't have fresh water to drink . '' 
She has n't played any music since the earthquake hit , out of respect for those who died on Interstate 880 where the roadway collapsed . 
Alfred Sikes , the new FCC chairman , championed deregulation of AT&T at his last job as head of a Commerce Department telecommunications agency . 
By a 4-0 vote , it allowed AT&T to continue offering special discount packages to big customers , called Tariff 12 , rejecting appeals by AT&T competitors that the discounts were illegal . 
The agency said that because MCI 's offer had expired AT&T could n't continue to offer its discount plan . 
The FCC `` did n't say I could n't do it again , '' he said . 
Richard Firestone , chief of the FCC 's common-carrier bureau , said he expected the agency to propose new rules next year . 
`` The time is long overdue to take a look at the fierce competition in the long-distance business and the rules governing it , '' the New York telecommunications firm said in a statement . 
US Sprint said was it will petition the FCC decision in federal court . 
`` We believe that the court will find it unlawful , '' said a US Sprint spokesman . 
The AT&T action was the most recent blow in a nasty fight . 
Earlier this month , MCI sued AT&T in federal district court , claiming that AT&T 's ads are false . 
Their junk funds combined have had net outflows totaling nearly $ 500 million , or about 13 % of their junk fund assets , in the past two months . 
`` People have been seeing headline after headline after headline and saying : ` I ca n't take it anymore -- I 'm getting out , ' '' says Kurt Brouwer of Brouwer & Janachowski , a San Francisco investment adviser . 
If the heavy outflows continue , fund managers will face increasing pressure to sell off some of their junk to pay departing investors in the weeks ahead . 
Such selling could erode prices of high-yield junk bonds , already weakened by a rash of corporate credit problems . 
Mutual fund officials say that investors have transferred most of it into their money market accounts , and to a lesser extent , government-bond funds . 
Other funds hold a smattering of junk bonds , too . 
About $ 60 million streamed out last week alone , double the level of the week following last month 's Campeau Corp. credit squeeze . 
He adds : `` Our fund has had -LCB- positive -RCB- net sales every month for the last three years -- until this month . '' 
The fund now holds a cash position of about 15 % . 
`` The last two months have been the whole ball game , '' says Steven Norwitz , a vice president . 
Through Oct. 19 , high-yield funds had an average 0.85 % total return -LRB- the price change plus dividends on fund shares -RRB- , according to Lipper Analytical Services Inc . 
, Lipper says ; the Vanguard fund rose 1.84 % ; and the T. Rowe Price fund edged up 0.66 % . 
Many funds in recent weeks and months have been selling their highest-quality junk issues , such as RJR Nabisco , to raise cash to meet expected redemptions . Funds might be forced to accept lower prices if they expand their selling to the securities of less-creditworthy borrowers . And then , asset values of the funds could plunge more than they have so far . 
`` The resignation came as a great surprise . '' 
Everyone was extremely long on sterling , '' Mr. Beale said . 
Sterling was quoted at $ 1.5765 , sharply down from $ 1.6145 late Wednesday . 
The implicit price deflator , a measure of inflation , was down to a 2.9 % annual rate of increase in the quarter from a 4.6 % rate of gain in the second quarter . 
They simply got carried away with interpreting what the executive order banning assassinations really meant . Mr. Boren himself did n't discover the warn-your-enemy nuance until Mr. Bush told him privately at the White House last week . The policy was contained in an exchange of letters last October between the Senate intelligence committee and the CIA and National Security Council . Staff lawyers for both sides were busy agreeing with one another about what the U.S. could not do to oust the Panamanian thug . 
Mr. Boren himself did n't discover the warn-your-enemy nuance until Mr. Bush told him privately at the White House last week . 
A former Oklahoma governor , he 's a thoughtful defender of presidential powers in foreign policy . 
He 's a rare Democratic hawk . 
He 's the senator most like Arthur Vandenberg , the GOP senator from Michigan who worked to forge a bipartisan foreign policy in the 1940s . 
`` Vandenberg and Rayburn are heroes of mine , '' Mr. Boren says , referring as well to Sam Rayburn , the Democratic House speaker who cooperated with President Eisenhower . 
`` They allowed this country to be credible . 
Last July , his committee rejected a Reagan administration plan to support a coup in Panama . 
Ohio Democrat Howard Metzenbaum refused to support any plan that might get people hurt , a charming notion for a great power . 
Maine Republican William Cohen said the plan might violate the assassination ban . 
By October , when the committee rejected a much more modest covert proposal , even the administration was agreeing little should be done . 
`` In the aftermath of Vietnam , in the aftermath of Iran-Contra , I can understand some people might think that if they plan a coup , they have to bring their lawyers , '' he says . 
Because it had bipartisan support . '' `` The sustainability of U.S. foreign policy is essential , '' he explains . `` Why was containment so successful ? 
Because it had bipartisan support . '' `` Why was containment so successful ? 
Elliott Abrams , a veteran of intelligence committee debates , doubts that even Grenada or the Libyan raid would have taken place if `` consensus '' had been required . 
; modern senators , Mr. Boren notwithstanding , are less modest . 
`` I would n't say it 's quite a veto , '' Mr. Boren demurs . 
He figures the episode will help `` clarify any ambiguities '' between the committee and administration . 
`` Maybe this will jolt us out of the post-Vietnam syndrome that we never are prepared to use force , '' he says . 
Maybe the problem is a political system that wo n't act without an `` exchange of letters , '' that insists on running foreign policy by committee , that treats a president as just another guy at the table . 
The lawyers are now in charge of our national security . 
Americans may not be so lucky the next time . 
How difficult it is for a thinking person to live among societies rooted in the past . 
The shipyard 's 6.5 billion Finnish markka -LRB- $ 1.54 billion -RRB- backlog includes about 20 ships ordered by big international shippers , including three for Carnival Cruise Lines Inc . 
In that case , international banks and investors incurred big losses because they incorrectly believed the company 's debt carried implicit state guarantees . 
In August , the government played a major part in a sweeping restructuring of the troubled shipyard . 
The government spent most of last year attempting to carry out such a plan but was thwarted when the parent Waertsilae concern pulled out at the last minute . 
Noting that Sweden wound up wasting state subsidies of about 35 billion Swedish kronor -LRB- $ 5.47 billion -RRB- during the 1970s in a vain attempt to salvage its shipbuilding industry , one analyst suggested that Mr. Suominen may have decided to cut Finland 's losses once and for all . 
The talks may drag on for weeks before any concrete result is announced , people familiar with them said . 
`` I think you 'll see share prices go down , and sterling now is under something of a cloud . '' 
In late New York trading , sterling stood at $ 1.5765 , down from $ 1.6145 late Wednesday . 
At 15 % , base interest rates are the highest in eight years , and the 7.6 % annual inflation rate is by far the highest in the European Community . 
Unions are pressing demands for wage increases of more than 10 % despite general belief that economic growth next year will be less than 2 % . 
The Financial Times 100-share index has dropped about 12 % from its 1989 high of 2423.9 on Sept. 8 . 
Yesterday , even before the resignations were announced , the index dove 32.5 points to close at 2129.4 . 
`` The only question is , how deep is it going to be ? 
The outlook for corporate earnings is fairly bleak . 
It 's quite likely we 're going to get repeats '' of the mid-October market shocks . 
London-based LIT Holdings , the largest financer of traders in the Chicago options and futures markets , said yesterday it will incur a second-half loss as a result of the market plunge . 
The company , which also will omit its second-half dividend , did n't specify the size . 
The price plummeted after a proposed leveraged buy-out of the airline fell through . 
`` A lot more of our customers are staying until our 10 p.m. closing time , '' says Christopher Brown , managing director of Corney & Barrow Restaurants Ltd. , which runs five tony wine bars in the district . 
`` People in the stock market were very much Thatcher 's children -- very young and wealthy optimists . 
Now it 's dawning on them that they can be non-wealthy . '' 
`` People come to us saying they 'd like to be back where they were a few years ago , in a more collegial atmosphere , with less tension , '' says Stephen Waterhouse , managing director of Hanover Partners Ltd. , a financial district head-hunting firm . 
The industry , which currently employs about 25,000 people in London , has shed about 2,500 jobs over the past two years . 
`` I can see cuts of at least 20 % more , '' says the head of the London office of a major U.S. firm . 
Intra-European takeovers are expected to continue at their brisk pace . 
It 's difficult to see that there 's going to be enough business to go around . 
About eight firms will get the lion 's share . 
At the others , there are going to be a lot of disappointments , after all those promises and all that big money that 's been paid to people . '' 
Says Allen D. Wheat , head of trading at Bankers Trust Co. : `` People are just plain scared . '' 
Last summer , he chucked his 10-year career as a London stockbroker and headed for the mountains . 
`` The percentage of your day spent twiddling your thumbs got greater , and the work day kept getting longer . 
Not a great deal . What am I doing in Jackson Hole ? 
In those cases , the high court ruled that federal law gives prosecutors broad authority to seize assets of people accused of racketeering and drug-related crimes , including fees paid to lawyers before an indictment . 
In a letter , prosecutors told Mr. Antar 's lawyers that because of the recent Supreme Court rulings , they could expect that any fees collected from Mr. Antar may be seized . 
Prosecutors have told Mr. Antar 's attorneys that they believe Mr. Antar 's allegedly ill-gotten gains are so great that any money he has used to pay attorneys derives from illegal activities . Therefore , they said , the money can be taken from the lawyers even after they are paid . 
Mr. Alito said his office `` just responded to an attorney 's question about whether we would go after attorney 's fees , and that is different from actually doing it , although we reserve that right . '' 
In that suit , the SEC accused Mr. Antar of engaging in a `` massive financial fraud '' to overstate the earnings of Crazy Eddie , Edison , N.J. , over a three-year period . 
Through his lawyers , Mr. Antar has denied allegations in the SEC suit and in civil suits previously filed by shareholders against Mr. Antar and others . 
Mr. Antar , the SEC said , made more than $ 60 million from the sale of his shares between 1985 and 1987 . 
According to department policy , prosecutors must make a strong showing that lawyers ' fees came from assets tainted by illegal profits before any attempts at seizure are made . 
That 's just what happened in the October 1987 crash . 
As the market tumbled , disorderly market conditions prevailed : The margins between buying bids and selling bids widened ; trading in many stocks was suspended ; orders took unduly long to be executed ; and many specialists stopped trading altogether . 
: The margins between buying bids and selling bids widened ; trading in many stocks was suspended ; orders took unduly long to be executed ; and many specialists stopped trading altogether . 
; trading in many stocks was suspended ; orders took unduly long to be executed ; and many specialists stopped trading altogether . 
; orders took unduly long to be executed ; and many specialists stopped trading altogether . 
His skis spread farther and farther apart -- just as buy-sell spreads widen during a financial panic -- and soon he is out of control . 
Unable to stop his accelerating descent , he crashes . 
In the additional time they provide even more order imbalances might pile up , as would-be sellers finally get their broker on the phone . 
The availability of timely assistance -- of a backstop -- can help markets retain their resilience . 
The Fed already buys and sells foreign exchange to prevent disorderly conditions in foreign-exchange markets . 
The Fed has assumed a similar responsibility in the market for government securities . 
The stock market is the only major market without a market-maker of unchallenged liquidity or a buyer of last resort . 
In 1987 , it pumped billions into the markets through open market operations and the discount window . 
It lent money to banks and encouraged them to make funds available to brokerage houses . 
The foreign-exchange and government securities markets are vastly larger . 
Daily trading volume in the New York foreign exchange market is $ 130 billion . The daily volume for Treasury Securities is about $ 110 billion . 
The daily volume for Treasury Securities is about $ 110 billion . 
The $ 13 billion the Fed injected into the money markets after the 1987 crash is more than enough to buy all the stocks traded on a typical day . 
More carefully targeted intervention might actually reduce the need for government action . 
It should seek only to maintain the functioning of markets -- not to prop up the Dow Jones or New York Stock Exchange averages at a particular level . 
The Fed should guard against systemic risk , but not against the risks inherent in individual stocks . 
It would be inappropriate for the government or the central bank to buy or sell IBM or General Motors shares . 
The increased demand would normalize trading and stabilize prices . 
Stabilizing the derivative markets would tend to stabilize the primary market . 
The Fed would eliminate the cause of the potential panic rather than attempting to treat the symptom -- the liquidity of the banks . 
I can not recall any disorder in currency markets since the 1974 guidelines were adopted . 
`` It would be damaging to industry and to the financial sector in general , to say nothing of banks , if prudence does not guide the financing of leveraged transactions . '' 
`` A similar result could sometimes be achieved , at less cost , by changing managements , '' he said . 
On Friday , Intel began notifying customers about the bugs which cause the chip to give wrong answers for some mathematical calculations . 
`` Bugs like this are just a normal part of product development , '' said Richard Archuleta , director of Hewlett-Packard Co. 's advanced systems development . 
`` These bugs do n't affect our schedule at all , '' he said . 
`` We have n't modified our schedules in any way , '' said a Sun spokesman . 
To switch to another vendor 's chips , `` would definitely not be an option , '' he said . 
Yesterday , Compaq plunged further , closing at $ 100 a share , off $ 8.625 a share , on volume of 2,633,700 shares . 
`` We should not be seeing any more , '' said Bill Rash , Intel 's director for the 486 chip . 
`` These errata do not affect business programs , '' he said . 
The bugs will cause problems in `` specific and rare circumstances that will not occur in typical applications '' such as word-processing and spreadsheets , said Michael Slater , editor of the Microprocessor Report , an industry newsletter . 
The real culprits , they said , are computer makers such as IBM that have jumped the gun to unveil 486-based products . 
`` The reason this is getting so much visibility is that some started shipping and announced early availability , '' said Hewlett-Packard 's Mr. Archuleta . 
An IBM spokeswoman said the company told customers Monday about the bugs and temporarily stopped shipping the product . 
`` We do n't look at this as a major problem for us , '' she said . 
That 's a break from Compaq tradition , because the company does n't announce products until they 're actually at the dealers . 
The 486 is the descendant of a long series of Intel chips that began dominating the market ever since IBM picked the 16-bit 8088 chip for its first personal computer . 
`` The 486 is going to have a big impact on the industry , '' said Hewlett-Packard 's Mr. Archuleta . 
`` It 's going to be the leading edge technology in personal computers for the next few years . 
The other element includes consolidating BethForge 's press-forge operations . 
Wall Street analysts have criticized Bethlehem for not following its major competitors in linking with a foreign company to share costs and provide technology to modernize old facilities or build new ones . 
`` It 's important to share the risk and even more so when the market has already peaked . '' 
Once the consolidation is complete , Bethlehem plans to concentrate its forgings business on nuclear fabrication , hardened steel and large-diameter steel rolls for rolling mills and selected custom-die applications . 
The California thrift has just announced a $ 226 million third-quarter loss . 
How did this happen ? 
It turns out that Columbia had this huge loss in large part because the new congressionally mandated rules forced it to adjust the book value of its soon-to-be-sold junk bonds to the lower of either their cost or market value . 
They could no longer be classified as what Columbia regarded them , namely long-term investments . 
The issue of seeking relief from Congress was raised to Delbert Staley , the chairman of Nynex . Mr. Staley replied : `` Legislation tends to be compromised . I believe we have to take a shot at getting as much done as we can through the court , through Justice and through state and federal regulatory agencies . I see Congress as a last resort . '' 
Mr. Staley replied : `` Legislation tends to be compromised . 
I believe we have to take a shot at getting as much done as we can through the court , through Justice and through state and federal regulatory agencies . 
I see Congress as a last resort . '' 
The reality of life in modern America is that if you want to wreck something that works , let it fall into the hands of Congress . 
As part of its restructuring several years ago , Exxon moved most of those out of the city and sold its 53-floor Rockefeller Center skyscraper to a Japanese company . 
Mobil Corp. is in the process of vacating its headquarters here , and huge operations like J.C. Penney & Co. and Trans World Airlines have recently left . 
`` We are dismayed , but there 's nothing we can do about it now , '' said Stanley Grayson , New York City deputy mayor for finance and economic development . 
Dallas , its economy based on oil and real estate , has been in a slump . 
Until the building is completed , Exxon will rent part of an existing office tower . 
The company wo n't say how much it will save , but during at its interim location , sources say it will likely pay rent of $ 10 to $ 15 per square foot . Owners of the building in New York say they will be asking $ 50 per square foot for rent to fill the space that Exxon is vacating . In Texas , taxes and development costs are also lower , they said . 
Owners of the building in New York say they will be asking $ 50 per square foot for rent to fill the space that Exxon is vacating . 
In January , American Medical brought in a new chief executive officer , Richard A. Gilleland , 45 , who will remain as chairman , president and chief executive . 
A few days later , American Medical announced sharply lower earnings , taking charges of $ 24 million for insurance reserves and canceled real estate leases . 
A group including several members of the the Bass family of Texas urged the company to take some steps to maximize shareholder value . 
American Medical accepted the offer , meanwhile indicating it had heard from two other suitors . 
Mr. Breeden contended that discretionary power could have an impact on the markets if rumors were to circulate about when the exchanges might be closed . 
He added that the president already has the power to close the markets in an emergency . 
He noted that some minimum margin requirements have been reduced to levels below those before the 1987 crash . 
Asked whether there is anything Congress should do to curb the LBO boom , Mr. Brady responded , `` I think the LBO phenomenon , -LRB- while -RRB- it wo n't stop completely , will be a thing of the past . '' 
Before taking any action , he advised the panel to `` see what the market has produced as a cure . '' 
`` I do not have a view of whether we should do anything about program trading at this time , '' he said . 
These include provisions relating to the technology and systems that must be employed by exchanges , oversight and disciplinary procedures for exchange trading practices , the relationship between commodity brokerage firms and floor traders , and exchange governance . 
The New York futures exchanges have been working together to develop a trade recording system much like the one called for in the bill . 
Today , trading in almost any commodity can be diverted from U.S. markets with just a few strokes of a keyboard . 
All foreign markets are aggressively courting U.S. business . 
The U.S. exchanges need both market integrity and cost-efficiency ; long-term growth depends on it . 
; long-term growth depends on it . 
Faced with the virtually impossible task of supervising the execution of each trade , many commodity brokerage firms are likely to stop doing business with independents and instead hire their own salaried floor brokers . This would force out of business many of the individuals and small firms that function as floor brokers . A consequence of their departure could be a serious diminution of market liquidity . Finally , under the bill , a number of legitimate , longstanding business practices would be arbitrarily banned , unless the CFTC were to take specific and timely action to permit them to continue . In other words , regulation will occur through inaction and happenstance , rather than through a normal deliberative procedure . The affected practices include the placing of oral orders , which is the way most public customer orders are placed , and trading between affiliated brokers , even though in some cases trading with affiliates may be the only way to obtain the best execution for a client . Also precluded would be dual trading , whereby a broker trades for customers as well as his own account , a practice that provides needed liquidity to the markets . The most arbitrary of these is the imposition of `` service fees , '' which will directly widen the cost spread between U.S. and foreign markets . Other provisions have a more subtle , but nonetheless real and detrimental effect on the international position of U.S. exchanges . These include the extension of liability into areas beyond those established by judicial precedent and the expansion of liability to include punitive damages . In addition to increasing costs as a result of greater financial exposure for members , these measures could have other , far-reaching repercussions . One section of the bill would make all commodity brokerage firms and floor brokers liable for damages without willful misconduct . Nowhere in the federal securities law is simple negligence or inadvertent action a source of liability under similar circumstances . It is only logical to assume that the enactment of this provision will lead to increased litigation . In an already low-profitmargin business , commodity brokerage firms may well decide to eliminate the risk and expense of dealing with the retail public , depriving the private individual of access to the markets . Another measure makes commodity brokerage firms liable for violations committed by independent floor brokers who execute trades for them . This untried concept would expose these firms to potentially astronomical punitive damages . 
These include the extension of liability into areas beyond those established by judicial precedent and the expansion of liability to include punitive damages . 
Nowhere in the federal securities law is simple negligence or inadvertent action a source of liability under similar circumstances . 
In an already low-profitmargin business , commodity brokerage firms may well decide to eliminate the risk and expense of dealing with the retail public , depriving the private individual of access to the markets . 
This untried concept would expose these firms to potentially astronomical punitive damages . 
This would force out of business many of the individuals and small firms that function as floor brokers . 
A consequence of their departure could be a serious diminution of market liquidity . 
That temptation must be put aside to permit careful consideration of all the implications , positive and negative , of the proposed resolutions to those problems , and to avoid creating a marketplace where no one trades . 
For the killer and thief , Said Mahran , fame flows from the barrel of a gun . 
`` One man said you act as a stimulant , '' a prostitute tells him , `` a diversion to relieve people 's boredom . '' 
`` Soon it 'll be so crowded , '' a narrator complains , `` that people will start eating each other . '' 
His daughter turns to dressmaking , then to peddling herself for a few piasters . 
One son sacrifices his own career so that his avaricious brother can succeed , while another helps support the family with money siphoned from crime . 
Mourning for the father is overshadowed by the shame of burying him in a pauper 's grave . 
The family moves to another house at night to conceal shabby belongings from neighbors . 
We see , smell and hear slums filled with `` the echoes of hawkers advertising their wares interspersed with abusive language , rattling coughs and the sound of people gathering spittle in their throats and spewing into the street . '' 
Mr. Mahfouz began writing when there was no novelistic tradition in Arabic , and he modeled his work on Western classics . 
In one sense , this limits him ; unlike a writer such as Gabriel Garcia Marquez , who has a distinctive Latin voice , Mr. Mahfouz 's style offers little that can be labeled `` Egyptian . '' 
; unlike a writer such as Gabriel Garcia Marquez , who has a distinctive Latin voice , Mr. Mahfouz 's style offers little that can be labeled `` Egyptian . '' 
Its antihero , Said Mahran , is an Egyptian Raskolnikov who seeks nobility in robbing and killing . 
`` I am the hope and the dream , the redemption of cowards , '' he says in one of many interior monologues . 
His giddy dream of redeeming a life of `` badly aimed bullets '' by punishing the `` real robbers '' -- the rich `` dogs '' who prey on the poor -- leads only to the death of innocents , and eventually to his own . 
Here , the city is dark and laden with symbolism : Said has left his jail cell only to enter the larger prison of Cairo society . 
We never care about Said or the `` hypocrites '' he hunts . 
`` The Thief and the Dogs '' is a pioneering work , the first stream-of-consciousness novel in Arabic , but it is likely to disappoint Western readers . 
Mr. Mahfouz has been pilloried and censored for questioning Islam and advocating peace with Israel . 
Veiling his message has helped him endure . 
Art , says the playwright in `` Wedding Song , '' is `` the surrogate for the action that an idealist like me is unable to take . '' 
The clutter of the 1940s remains , but its color has drained away , and the will to overcome has been defeated . 
Cars ca n't move because of overflowing sewers . 
Characters complain ceaselessly about food queues , prices and corruption . 
Having lost their faith in God , in social reform and in opium , Cairenes are left with nothing but their sense of humor . 
Its stock , which was as high as $ 18.75 a share , has been trading under $ 4 a share recently . 
The HUD scandals will simply continue , but under new mismanagement . 
HUD has no paper work whatsoever on 30 of the projects , none of the others has been approved and not a single congressional hearing has been held on any of them . 
Unlike those awful Republican consultants , Members do n't profit directly from HUD projects . 
They merely collect campaign contributions from developers that help keep them in office . 
They are often closed to the public and no minutes are taken . 
Members find it easy to doctor legislation by slipping in special provisions that could never survive in the cold light of day . 
They transferred some $ 28 million from the Community Development Block Grant program designated largely for low - and moderate-income projects and funneled it into such items as : -- $ 1.2 million for a performing-arts center in Newark , -- $ 1.3 million for `` job retention '' in Hawaiian sugar mills . -- $ 400,000 for a collapsing utility tunnel in Salisbury , -- $ 500,000 for `` equipment and landscaping to deter crime and aid police surveillance '' at a Michigan park . -- $ 450,000 for `` integrated urban data based in seven cities . '' No other details . -- $ 390,000 for a library and recreation center at Mackinac Island , Mich . 
I do n't know how much got through . 
Nobody has any credible estimate . 
The efforts to get to the people who are addicted , try to rehabilitate them ; if they can not be rehabilitated , at least to contain them ; to educate people , to strongly discourage use of drugs by people who are casual users and first users , to stop this process among the young -- all of these things I think are extremely important . 
We designed a comprehensive program , and we worked hard on it . 
In the Reagan administration we designed a comprehensive program ; we worked very hard on it . 
Our international efforts were far greater than ever before . 
These efforts wind up creating a market where the price vastly exceeds the cost . 
With these incentives , demand creates its own supply and a criminal network along with it . 
It seems to me we 're not really going to get anywhere until we can take the criminality out of the drug business and the incentives for criminality out of it . 
Frankly , the only way I can think of to accomplish this is to make it possible for addicts to buy drugs at some regulated place at a price that approximates their cost . 
When you do that you wipe out the criminal incentives , including , I might say , the incentive that the drug pushers have to go around and get kids addicted , so that they create a market for themselves . 
They wo n't have that incentive because they wo n't have that market . 
Sometimes at a reception or cocktail party I advance these views and people head for somebody else . 
They do n't even want to talk to you . 
I know that I 'm shouting into the breeze here as far as what we 're doing now . 
No politician wants to say what I just said , not for a minute . 
Imports of goods and services soared , while exports were flat . 
You ca n't rely now solely on consumer spending to sustain the economy on a solid growth path , '' said Norman Robertson , chief economist at Mellon Bank in Pittsburgh . 
Many economists think the rise in the value of the U.S. dollar this year will further crimp progress in trade , because it makes exports more expensive and imports cheaper . 
He added : `` Inflation is lower than I think people expected it to be , and I think that 's good news . '' 
Mr. Darby called it a `` disappointment '' but predicted exports will pick up again . 
`` I ca n't believe it will continue , '' he added , noting that the economies of the country 's major trading partners are strong and prices of U.S. products are still competitive . 
While a buildup of these stocks adds to GNP , it can hurt the economy because a pileup of unsold goods can lead to production cuts and layoffs . 
Manufacturers ' stocks fattened at an $ 18.4 billion annual rate , up from $ 8.3 billion . 
`` I do n't think it 's anything that 's going to cause a downturn in economic activity . 
The contract provides additional equipment for Northrop , the prime contractor on the missile , and also supports a 1990 purchase of 90 missiles for follow-on flight tests . 
Chevrolet already has cash incentives on the 1989 models of these vehicles . 
Iverson 's earnings plunged 70 % to $ 1.2 million . 
The troubles continued in this year 's first half , when profit plunged 81 % to $ 302,000 . 
Unlike larger contractors with a broad enough base to weather the downturn easily , these companies are suffering big drops in business as once-lucrative specialty niches in the massive military market erode or even disappear . 
As their varied strategies suggest , there is more than one way to respond to a disaster -- though it 's too soon to tell whether the changes will pay off . 
For many companies , the instinctive first response is to cut costs . 
Others are trying to find specialty defense work spared by the slowdown or new niches created by budget-cutting . 
More venturesome businesses are applying their skills in commercial fields . 
While the SDI anti-missile program recently awarded W.J. Schafer two contracts totaling $ 13.4 million , ERC 's chairman and founder , Jack Aalseth , says he bought the company `` more for its technology than its customer . '' 
The company hit on a new strategy : If the Defense Department is so intent on saving money , why not make money off that trend ? 
At as little as one-third of the government 's cost , the company is running a program to train Army helicopter pilots . 
Donald Iverson , chairman , says he hopes the company can eventually get up to half of its revenue from commercial markets . 
For now , he says , `` we 're looking at buying some small companies with niche markets in the personal-computer business . '' 
A partnership with a Williamsburg , Va. , unit of Shell Oil Co. recently patented a process for producing plastic food containers that wo n't melt in microwave ovens . 
`` It is an effort to branch out from the government , which is very difficult for a defense contractor . '' 
Instead of helping his company in the defense spending slowdown , Dynamic Engineering Inc. , a troubled subsidiary that makes wind tunnels for the space industry , contributed to much of QuesTech 's $ 3.3 million loss on $ 55.6 million in revenue last year . 
In January , Mr. Salvatori sold the unit . 
Telos Corp. , a Santa Monica , Calif. , provider of software-development and hardware-maintenance services to the military , enjoyed steady growth until this year . Following a tripling of earnings , to $ 3.9 million , on a doubling of revenue , to $ 116 million , over four years , earnings in the company 's fiscal first quarter , which ended June 30 , plunged 90 % to $ 45,000 . A one-time write-off for booking nonexistent revenue was partly to blame , but so were lower profits from a stingier contract with the Army and delays in getting paid . Telos responded by combining three of its five divisions to reduce expenses and `` bring more focus to potentially fewer bidding opportunities , '' says Lin Conger , Telos chairman and controlling shareholder . 
Following a tripling of earnings , to $ 3.9 million , on a doubling of revenue , to $ 116 million , over four years , earnings in the company 's fiscal first quarter , which ended June 30 , plunged 90 % to $ 45,000 . 
A one-time write-off for booking nonexistent revenue was partly to blame , but so were lower profits from a stingier contract with the Army and delays in getting paid . 
`` It 's evident we 're entering a more competitive era , '' he says . 
The company not only merged three military-electronics manufacturing operations , but also closed an unrelated plant that makes ordnance devices used in fighter planes and missiles . 
`` I would n't say we 're out of the business . 
If nothing else , the 57-year-old 's past has its share of dents . 
He was convicted of charging interest rates much higher than what the law permitted , and attempting to evade income taxes by using a double accounting system . 
He was arrested , though not indicted , on at least three other occasions in the '60s and '70s : for assault and unlawful confinement , for fraud and forgery of private documents , and for extortion . 
`` We like to make our own judgments '' about Mr. Morishita , says Christopher Davidge , Christies ' group managing director . 
`` People have a different reputation country by country . '' 
`` In the long run , the -LCB- stock -RCB- prices will go up . '' 
In 30 years of collecting impressionist and Japanese paintings , he has acquired 600 items , he says , enough to persuade him to start a museum next year . 
He says he spent $ 300 million on his art business this year . 
A week ago , his gallery racked up a $ 23 million tab at a Sotheby 's auction in New York buying seven works , including a Picasso . 
According to Teikoku Data Bank Ltd. , which tracks company earnings , Aichi 's revenue rose 15 % to 49.3 billion yen -LRB- $ 348.4 million -RRB- in the year ended February . 
Revenue doubled from two years ago . 
The Asahi Shimbun , a Japanese daily , last month reported that Aichi revised its tax calculations after being challenged for allegedly failing to report all of its income to tax authorities over a two-year period . 
The Tokyo Regional Taxation Office declines to comment , and Mr. Kori , the tycoon 's secretary , says the problem simply resulted from a difference of opinion over what was considered income . 
Stretching his arms in his silky white shirt and squeaking his black shoes , he lectures a visitor about the way to sell American real estate and boasts about his friendship with Margaret Thatcher 's son . 
`` Are you stupid ? '' he snaps . `` You should know what questions to ask to get people to answer . '' 
`` You should know what questions to ask to get people to answer . '' 
Mr. Morishita scoffs at those stories , as well as the ones connecting him to the Japanese mob . 
He says he has never even dined with gangsters . 
From there , he set up his finance company and rapidly expanded from lending to investment in real estate to building golf courses . 
Although he says he was n't keen on going , last year he attended a New York gala where his daughter made her debut . 
Even in Denenchofu , one of Tokyo 's richest neighborhoods , Mr. Morishita 's splashy brick manor -- one of some 10 houses he owns -- outshines the neighbors ' . 
A lavish white portico with a stained-glass window towers over the brick wall surrounding his property . 
`` I quit after one try , whether I win or lose , '' he says . 
`` I 'm done in two minutes . '' 
He 'll be there wherever there 's money to be made , laughs Mr. Kori , the secretary . 
`` Who knows , '' he says , `` if he heard that soybeans make money today , he might be flying out to Chicago tomorrow . 
For all of 1988 , union contracts provided for 2.5 % wage increases in the first year and 2.4 % over the life of the contracts . 
; about 15 % are covered by cost-of-living clauses . 
For all six million workers under major collective bargaining agreements , regardless of when they were signed , wage increases in the first nine months of 1989 averaged 2.5 % -- including cost-of-living adjustments . 
: He has made speaking Filipino respectable . 
He speaks only in Filipino . 
Radio programs and books have followed the daily television show . 
`` It impresses on ordinary , young Filipinos that there 's nothing to feel inferior about in using their own language , '' says Randy David , a sociologist and host of a popular television talk show . 
Now , she says , `` it 's no longer an issue . '' 
`` For the middle and upper-middle class -LCB- Filipino -RCB- is declasse , '' says Bien Lumbera , a Philippine-studies professor at Quezon City 's University of the Philippines . 
They argue that their own languages should have equal weight , although recent surveys indicate that the majority of the country 's population understands Filipino more than any other language . Other opponents of Filipino come from non-Tagalog regions . 
They argue that their own languages should have equal weight , although recent surveys indicate that the majority of the country 's population understands Filipino more than any other language . 
It is entrenched in the country 's colonial bonds to the U.S. , in Philippine class structure , in the regional loyalties of its people and in its island geography . 
As they did when the Philippines was a colony of the U.S. , teachers for the most part teach in English , even though it is a foreign language for most Philippine children . 
It does n't take much to provoke an intense debate . 
When President Corazon Aquino , whose command of Filipino is spotty , announced last year that the language would be used in official communications , there was an uproar from many legislators , who continue to conduct debates mostly in English . 
They believe the media , including `` Batibot , '' have played a crucial role . 
`` It 's not as if we 're teaching language per se , '' he says , `` We 're just using it . '' 
, '' he says , `` We 're just using it . '' 
It is shown weekdays on two of the country 's five networks . 
Periodically , there are threats that the program will fold . 
Sound stages echo . 
Acting sometimes falls flat . 
There are only two large puppets in the program : Pong Pagong and a monkey named Kiko Matsing . 
The program is n't afraid to tackle controversial topics such as nuclear weapons and the environment . 
During one recent episode , all the advertisements were in English . 
The in-home health care services provider said it will sell 1.8 million of the new shares , while Home Nutritional Services will sell the remaining 2.2 million . 
It will have 11.8 million shares outstanding after the offering , with Healthdyne owning about 65 % of the total . 
The acquisition boosted Black & Decker 's ratio of debt to total capital to more than 80 % . 
Company officials have said they plan to reduce that ratio to less than 50 % over the next 2 1\/2 years . 
The three units contributed about a third of Emhart 's total sales . 
Bostic posted 1988 sales of $ 255 million . 
The company 's stock plunged when it first announced that it planned to acquire Emhart . 
The company did n't announce the sale until after the close of the market . 
Embedded in the `` budget '' being concocted by the House-Senate conference committee is something that looks , smells and waddles like a duck . 
It 's a nuisance tax on mergers . 
Typically , Hart-Scott is used now to give managers of target firms early news of a bid and a chance to use regulatory review as a delaying tactic . 
One especially dangerous aspect to the new tax would be that the proceeds will be used to increase the budgets of the antitrust division at Justice and the Federal Trade Commission . 
Mr. Grobstein had been a vice chairman of Ernst & Whinney , an accounting firm that merged with rival Arthur Young in July to form Ernst & Young , a major accounting , tax and management consulting firm . 
Mr. Grobstein 's appointment formalizes a role he has been performing since the merger , a spokeswoman said . 
For the moment , the sources said , he has decided against seeking a white knight or organizing a counterbid for Paribas . 
That is due mostly to payments from Allianz for most of the 50 % stake it has agreed to acquire in Navigation Mixte 's insurance business . 
If holders avoid tendering to Paribas , he added , they can expect strong dividends again next year . 
Mr. de Cholet said Mr. Fournier 's biggest hope was to somehow persuade regulatory authorities to block the bid . 
Paribas still needs the go-ahead from the Commission des Operations de Bourse , a government regulatory agency , but analysts said that is considered likely . 
Once he realized that Paribas 's intentions were n't friendly , he said , but before the bid was launched , he sought approval to boost his Paribas stake above 10 % . 
The petition is still pending , but Mr. Fournier downplayed the likelihood of his organizing a takeover bid of his own for the much-larger Paribas . 
Mr. Fournier said the large institutions that hold nearly 50 % of Navigation Mixte 's capital all strongly support him , but some analysts said they are n't so sure . 
The Paribas offer values Navigation Mixte at about 23 billion francs , depending on how many of Navigation Mixte 's warrants are converted into shares during the takeover battle . 
Each note is being offered at $ 308.32 per $ 1,000 principal amount at maturity , representing an 8 % yield to maturity . 
Corporate taxes paid for almost 12 % of federal spending in 1988 -- excluding Social Security -- compared with less than 8 % in the first half of the 1980s , the study found . 
`` Under the new tax-reform law , the days of widespread , wholesale corporate tax avoidance have come to an end . '' 
`` While the overall picture is very encouraging , significant corporate tax avoidance continues , '' the study said . 
The Japanese have watched the Europeans and Canadians stumble in the U.S. market , and they fret that business practices that have won them huge profits at home wo n't translate into success in the U.S. . 
After Sony Corp. 's recent headline-grabbing acquisition of Columbia Pictures , many say it makes good political sense to lie low . 
`` It 's a question of timing , '' says Mayumi Takayama , managing director of international operations at Isetan Co. , a Tokyo department store . 
Britain 's B.A.T Industries PLC is trying to unwind its U.S. retailing operations , which include such well-known stores as Saks Fifth Avenue , Marshall Field 's , Breuners and Ivey 's . 
Seven Japanese department-store groups were approached by investment bankers representing Bloomingdale 's chairman , Marvin Traub , and more than half are seeking additional information on the group , bankers say . 
Paying off that debt put such a squeeze on Campeau and its stores that Federated decided to sell off the jewels of its retailing empire , including Bloomingdale 's . 
Ideally , investment bankers say , he wants to get backing from a Japanese department store and a European department store to forge a global retailing network . 
`` When you look at the economics , Traub needs a Japanese and a European partner to make it work , '' says one investment banker who follows the retail industry . 
`` Looking only at a narrow American strategy is n't where it 's at . '' 
Up until now , most stores have followed the same basic overseas strategy : First they set up overseas merchandising offices to import items and track new fashion trends . Then they opened small gift shops mostly aimed at Japanese tourists . 
Last March , Isetan invested 1.5 billion yen -LRB- $ 10.6 million -RRB- in a venture with Barney 's Inc. , an up-scale New York specialty clothier . 
The first Barney 's shop is scheduled to open in Japan next year . 
Through the longstanding relationship between the two companies , Mitsukoshi has opened 22 Tiffany shops in its stores and arcades in Japan . 
Plans are under way to open a Tiffany 's in Hawaii to cater to Japanese tourists ; it will be run mostly by Mitsukoshi . 
Company officials say they are studying various proposals but wo n't discuss details . 
Eiji Nakazato , a Takashimaya general manager , admits that his company 's image is similar to Saks 's and that there is some interest in the idea . 
`` We 'd like to do business in America , '' he says . `` But it looks tough . '' 
The statement said a 5 % jump in the `` Peter 's Pence '' collection -- the annual offering from Catholics to the pope -- helped cover the deficit . 
According to Mr. Nixon 's office , `` This is solely a fact-finding trip . 
There will be no sightseeing , no shopping and no social events . '' 
Mr. Nixon 's office said the former president `` expects to have one-on-one discussions with the major Chinese leaders '' and will give his assessment of those leaders to President Bush upon his return . 
The poll , conducted for the Dutch daily De Telegraaf by Gallup International said 81 % of Dutch people supported NATO . 
Canada was the second most pro-NATO country with 78 % supporting the alliance , followed by the U.S. with 75 % , Britain with 71 % , Belgium with 69 % and West Germany with 63 % . 
All other countries registered support below 50 % . 
`` We asked police to investigate why they are allowed to distribute the flag in this way . 
It should be considered against the law , '' said Danny Leish , a spokesman for the association . 
The company 's U.S. subsidiary , Matsushita Electric Corp. of America , had donated over $ 35,000 worth of Matsushita-made flashlights and batteries to residents shortly after the disaster , a company spokesman said . 
Several other Japanese companies and regional governments have sent aid to San Francisco . 
Sumitomo Bank donated $ 500,000 , Tokyo prefecture $ 15,000 and the city of Osaka $ 10,000 . 
`` They are angry about the government ... so they hold back the goods , '' he said . 
Long-term Treasury bonds ended slightly higher . 
The dollar rose modestly against the mark and the yen , but soared against the pound following the resignation of Britain 's chancellor of the Exchequer , Nigel Lawson . 
Compaq Computer nose-dived $ 8.625 a share , to $ 100 , and pulled other technology issues lower after reporting lower-than-expected earnings after the stock market closed Wednesday . 
Later yesterday the nation 's major auto makers added to the gloom when they each reported their core auto operations were net losers in the third quarter . 
`` People are questioning corporate profits as a pillar of support for the equity market . '' 
While bond investors would have preferred growth to be a little slower , they were cheered by inflation measures in the data that showed prices rising at a modest annual rate of 2.9 % . 
That is another small encouragement for the Federal Reserve to lower interest rates in coming weeks , they reasoned . 
Volume on the New York Stock Exchange totaled 175.2 million shares . 
Declining issues on the Big Board outstripped gainers 1,141 to 406 . 
The Treasury 's benchmark 30-year rose fractionally . 
Yield on the issue was 7.88 % . 
In late New York trading the dollar was at 1.8400 marks and 142.10 yen compared with 1.8353 marks and 141.52 yen Wednesday . 
The dollar soared against the pound , which was at $ 1.5765 compared with $ 1.6145 Wednesday . 
`` The only way to reduce the costs is to say we do n't want to pay the bill , '' said Rep. Neal Smith -LRB- D. , Iowa -RRB- , who taunted President Bush 's party to back up his campaign promise of supporting the claims of $ 20,000 per individual . 
`` Read my lips , '' said Mr. Smith . `` If you 're for paying the claims ... I do n't know how anyone can oppose this . '' 
As much as Republicans led the opposition , among the 53 Democrats voting against treating the payments as an entitlement , 42 came from the 13 states in the Old Dixiecrat South and its borders . 
The Federal Bureau of Investigation is slated to receive $ 30 million by charging for fingerprint services in civil cases , and the judiciary will rely on another $ 32 million from bankruptcy charges , including a 33 % increase in the current filing fee . 
Ford predicted fourth-quarter net income will fall below the year-earlier level , partly because of a likely $ 500 million charge from the sale of its steel operations . 
GM 's common closed at $ 44.375 a share , down 50 cents , Ford fell 37.5 cents to end at $ 47.50 , and Chrysler eased 37.5 cents to $ 22.25 , all in New York Stock Exchange composite trading . 
The price war peaked in the third quarter as Big Three factory discounts climbed to more than $ 1,000 a vehicle , according to industry officials . 
`` We all did what we had to do to stay within sight of them . '' 
GM , Ford and Chrysler have already cut fourth-quarter U.S. output plans an estimated 15 % from 1988 levels . 
If sales do n't pick up , the cuts will go deeper and incentives will sprout again . 
The Dearborn , Mich. , auto maker ran a loss of $ 37 million on assembling and marketing cars in the U.S. , a deterioration of $ 378 million in that line from the 1988 quarter . 
In the latest nine months , Ford earned $ 3.52 billion , or $ 7.51 a share , compared with $ 4.14 billion , or $ 8.53 a share . 
Sales were flat at $ 7.88 billion . 
He said the loss was n't `` that much different '' from Ford 's $ 37 million loss on U.S. automotive operations , but he declined to be specific . 
Consumers , he said , are balking at higher prices on 1990 cars , especially after seeing the incentive-reduced prices on 1989 models . 
Sales rose 8.4 % to $ 27.95 billion from $ 25.78 billion . 
In one breakdown , GM attributed half of its net to its two big technology units , Electronic Data Systems Corp. and GM Hughes Electronics Corp . 
That means it 's unlikely the company will surpass last year 's $ 4.9 billion full-year profit , even though net for the first nine months was up 1.9 % to $ 3.52 billion on revenue of $ 95.57 billion . 
It earned $ 3.46 billion on revenue of $ 91.21 billion in the 1988 nine months . 
One is a strong , vigorous portrayal of Shakespeare 's play ; the other is director Gregory Boyd 's overlay of present-day punk rock decadence on old Vienna . 
; the other is director Gregory Boyd 's overlay of present-day punk rock decadence on old Vienna . 
Its ambiguity and uneasy mixture of the serious and the comic is no doubt one reason why it is very much in vogue with directors just now . 
When Angelo hears that the young man Claudio has made his fiancee pregnant before he could marry her , Angelo summarily condemns Claudio to death . 
When the action requires , a prison cell , consisting of an enlarged wire cage , rolls forward on iron wheels on the platform . 
When Isabella -LRB- Ellen Lauren -RRB- confronts her brother Claudio -LRB- Matt Loney -RRB- in his cell , explaining the price she has been asked to secure his freedom ; when Isabella and the disguised Duke -LRB- Philip Kerr -RRB- conspire to trick Angelo ; and when Mariana -LRB- Annalee Jefferies -RRB- , a woman wronged by Angelo , confronts him with his past misdeeds , the performers bring the dramatic high points to life with intense energy and intelligence . 
It 's a valid approach , but it puts a heavy burden on the director to show an uncommon degree of imagination and taste . 
Loud rock music accompanies all the scene changes , even those in the convent . 
When the opportunist Lucio -LRB- Jack Stehlin -RRB- visits the convent to inform Isabella of her brother 's fate , Lucio not only slaps the mother superior on her rear , but brings along a voluptuous companion -LRB- Jill Powell -RRB- , not in Shakespeare 's script , to undulate lasciviously . 
`` Measure for Measure '' is Mr. Boyd 's first directorial assignment as the theater 's new artistic director . He succeeded Pat Brown , who was fired by the Alley board 18 months ago . Her dismissal angered many in the regional theater establishment and led Peter Zeisler , head of Theatre Communications Group , to write an editorial in American Theatre magazine condemning the board . None of this backlash could change the fact that Ms. Brown 's regime was remarkably undistinguished and unimaginative . 
Her dismissal angered many in the regional theater establishment and led Peter Zeisler , head of Theatre Communications Group , to write an editorial in American Theatre magazine condemning the board . 
None of this backlash could change the fact that Ms. Brown 's regime was remarkably undistinguished and unimaginative . 
Not only is Mr. Boyd giving the theater a new sense of adventure and excitement on stage , the balance sheet is the best the theater has had in 10 years . 
As opposed to the $ 1.4 million deficit of the 1987-88 season , the 1988-89 year concluded with a $ 200,000 surplus and a $ 500,000 cash reserve . 
`` They do n't have the votes to get it passed . '' 
`` I 'm not sure what 's going to happen , '' he said . 
Democrats are holding up a vote on the amendment by threatening a filibuster , or extended debate . 
GOP leaders continued to press for a vote on the amendment to the Eastern Europe aid measure . 
; we 're serious about a capital-gains reduction , '' said Kansas Sen. Robert Dole , the Senate 's Republican leader . 
They accuse the Democrats of unfairly using Senate rules to erect a 60-vote hurdle . 
Democrats counter that the Republicans have often used the same rules to suit their own ends . 
Democrats asserted that the proposal , which also would create a new type of individual retirement account , was fraught with budget gimmickry that would lose billions of dollars in the long run . Republicans countered that long-range revenue estimates were unreliable . 
Republicans countered that long-range revenue estimates were unreliable . 
The three managing general partners would receive a `` significant '' number of Marsh & McLennan shares , said Walther L. Kiep , a partner who would also join Marsh & McLennan 's board . 
The price was n't disclosed . 
In Japan , Furukawa said it will raise production at a plant outside Tokyo to 300,000 sheets monthly from 100,000 . 
The financial services company , which has about 98.8 million shares outstanding , noted its `` continued confidence in the ongoing strength of the operations . 
Sales increased 36 % to $ 683 million from $ 502 million . 
Sales rose 50 % to $ 2.1 billion from $ 1.4 billion . 
Mr. Swavely said the new space will allow Compaq to increase the manufacturing capacity of its plant in Erskine , Scotland . 
Mr. Kilpatrick will remain a director . 
The maker of water-treatment chemicals and equipment said it will select the plant site early next year , and production is expected to begin in 1991 . 
Mr. Deaver has reopened a public-relations business . 
Let the president demand strict new ethics rules : With four sitting House members accused of sexual misdeeds , amid the unfolding HUD scandal and after the Wright debacle , `` people are slightly dulled by scandal , '' says political humorist Art Buchwald . 
`` It now takes something really weird to inspire public outrage . '' 
`` These people bounce back more resiliently than regular people , '' says Washington writer Suzanne Garment , who is working on a history of post-Watergate scandal . 
Among the rules : 
The former $ 3 million-a-year lobbyist now frequents shelters for the homeless and devotes a third of his time counseling other recovering alcoholics . 
`` I feel better than I ever have in my life , '' he says . 
Host Ted Koppel introduced him as `` the media master of the Reagan Administration , '' with nary a mention of Mr. Deaver 's conviction in 1987 on perjury charges . 
After allegations surfaced in a 1985 divorce contest that he had beaten his wife , SEC enforcement chief John Fedders retreated to a Trappist monastery in rural Virginia . He is now in solo law practice in Washington , but his fees have been meager and he failed in efforts to win a chunk of his ex-wife 's royalties on her tell-all book . 
From time to time he returns to the monastery for prayer , meditation and pro bono legal work . 
`` This whole experience has been an opportunity for internal growth , '' he says . 
My universe has changed . 
I 'm enjoying my life and who I am today . 
The aspect of being a mega-lawyer is n't as important . '' 
Declaring that there was life after Congress , he resigned almost immediately after media reports questioned the propriety of a 1986 junk-bond investment , before any official investigations took hold . 
Dan Rather served as emcee . 
Anne Burford , the former EPA chief who resigned under fire in 1983 during a flap with Congress , was kayoed in the confrontation , even though she was never charged with official wrondgoing . 
She worked part-time as a consultant and wrote a book , but never restarted her high-powered legal career . 
It did n't help when , in 1986 , she was charged -LRB- and then cleared -RRB- on allegations of public drunkenness . 
Mrs. Burford remains bitter over the overwhelming legal expenses involved in clearing her name . 
`` My husband was instantly impoverished by the very act of marrying me , '' she says . 
`` There 's nothing she could do to bring herself back to where she was , '' says her lawyer , James Bierbower . 
`` You could say she survived , but it was n't easy on her . '' 
Donna Rice of Gary Hart fame failed to obtain a book contract and lost her modeling contract for `` No Excuses '' jeans . 
Fawn Hall , Oliver North 's former secretary , has yet to launch a hoped-for television news career , according to her lawyer . 
He was back in jail over the summer on shoplifting charges . 
Richard Secord , the retired Air Force general felled in the Iran-Contra scandal , is all but ruined -- forced to sell his Virginia home and pull his kids out of college , according to a recent fund-raising appeal sent out on his behalf . 
Mr. Secord 's performance was decidedly less inspiring . 
Even in the wake of Hurricane Hugo 750 people turned out in a remote Virginia town in September for a `` family tribute '' to Mr. North given by two dozen conservative members of Congress . 
`` You can be wicked , but not foolish , '' says Mr. Mankiewicz . 
Mr. Bauman , a conservative , says he was deserted by the right wing . 
`` Conservatives shoot their own , '' he says . 
John Tower was accused of womanizing and boozing during his unsuccessful bid to win confirmation as secretary of defense earlier this year . Now he is writing a book , serving on an elite foreign policy advisory board and consulting for an array of corporate clients , including British publishing mogul Robert Maxwell . 
Now he is writing a book , serving on an elite foreign policy advisory board and consulting for an array of corporate clients , including British publishing mogul Robert Maxwell . 
Former Rep. Fernand St Germain , brought down by the savings-and-loan crisis , now represents -- you guessed it -- savings-and-loans associations . 
John Mack promptly quit his job last spring as an aide to Speaker Wright amid public outrage over Mr. Mack 's violent attack on a young woman when he was 19 years old . After a few weeks in seclusion , Mr. Mack opened a consulting firm , but not to enable him to directly lobby ; that would require him to disclose his clients by registering as a lobbyist . Still , Mr. Mack says he talks to `` 30 members of Congress a week . '' 
After a few weeks in seclusion , Mr. Mack opened a consulting firm , but not to enable him to directly lobby ; that would require him to disclose his clients by registering as a lobbyist . 
; that would require him to disclose his clients by registering as a lobbyist . 
Raymond Donovan , the New Jersey construction executive who was forced to resign as labor secretary and indicted in 1985 , only to be acquitted of fraud charges , often calls other scandal-tossed public figures to offer a sympathetic ear . 
Each time a new scandal hits , he says , `` it pulls the scabs off your knees . '' 
`` The fact that we might not side with the Americans may be a reason why Canada 's membership in the OAS has n't been , over the years , an item high on the U.S. agenda , '' said Allan Gotlieb , former Canadian ambassador to the U.S. . 
`` Canada could do plenty of things to get serious about Latin America without running the risk of getting caught in the cross fire '' between the U.S. and Latin American members of the OAS , said Jeffrey Simpson , a columnist in Toronto 's Globe & Mail newspaper . 
In U.N. General Assembly votes last year , Canada voted the same as the U.S. only 63 % of the time . 
France voted the same as the U.S. 76 % of the time , West Germany 79 % and Britain 83 % . 
`` Latin Americans see Canada as a non-interventionist power that respects their sovereignty , '' he said . 
Cuba has been suspended from OAS membership , but the organization 's members are discussing Cuba 's reinstatement . 
Older movies have plenty of violence , though it is portrayed in keeping with the more restrictive social conventions of the time . 
The `` Thin Man '' series of movies , as well as many others , based their entire comedic appeal on the star detectives ' witty quips and puns as other characters in the movies were murdered . 
The specific scene he mentions in which pet dogs are crushed is somewhat reminiscent of the continual plights that befall the coyote in the old Warner Bros . `` Road Runner '' cartoons . 
There is no slow-motion close-up , blood-and-guts portrayal of the animal 's demise . 
Keep in mind that this is the same movie in which a character is flattened by a steamroller only to pop right back up and peer in the window of a Boeing 747 -- from the outside -- as it takes off . 
Many modern scriptwriters seem to be incapable of writing drama , or anything else , without foul-mouthed cursing . 
Sex and violence are routinely included even when they are irrelevant to the script , and high-tech special effects are continually substituted for good plot and character development . 
Terms were n't disclosed . 
; since February of this year , unemployment has been steady at around 6.2 % of the labor force . 
The Clarksburg , W.Va. , producer of gas and oil , said it wants shareholders to approve the split because it would `` enhance the marketability '' and trading of the stock . 
If approved at a shareholder meeting in December , the number of shares outstanding would decrease to five million from 50 million , and par value would rise to 10 cents from a penny . 
Inventories fell 0.3 % in August . 
It did n't provide details of setup costs . 
The profit gain was made despite a weakening in the housing market , for which the company is a supplier , and a strengthening in the dollar , which lowers the value of overseas earnings when they are translated into dollars . 
In the year-earlier period , the company earned $ 461 million , or $ 1.91 a share . 
`` We have n't benefited the shareholder as much as we need to , '' said Edgar Woolard Jr. , Du Pont 's chairman and chief executive officer , in an interview several months before he entered his current position in April . 
A spokesman for Seagram , the Montreal wine and spirits concern controlled by the Bronfman family , said the company will post additional pretax profit of about $ 33 million a year because of the additional Du Pont dividends . 
Du Pont 's stock rose $ 2.50 a share to close at $ 117.375 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday . 
Seagram closed at $ 84.75 , up 12.5 cents a share in Big Board trading . 
The company benefited from continued strong demand and higher selling prices for titanium dioxide , a white pigment used in paints , paper and plastics . 
He said Du Pont holds about 23 % of the world-wide market , the largest single share , at a time when growing uses for the pigment have kept it in tight supply , although others are now adding low-cost production capacity . 
A spokesman said herbicide use in some areas of the U.S. was delayed earlier in the year by heavy rains , thus increasing sales in the third quarter . 
Profit from coal fell to $ 41 million from $ 58 million , partly because of a miners ' strike . 
The stock split , which is subject to holder approval , would be paid on a still unspecified date in January to holders of record Dec. 21 . 
The company is being acquired . 
They are stressing that the best way for the West to help the East is to move faster towards Western European economic and monetary unity . 
Mr. Mitterrand proposed that a conference be convened next fall to write a new treaty for the EC allowing a European central bank , and that the treaty be ratified by 1992 . 
Says a European strategist : `` The U.S. tends to look at Eastern Europe -LCB- not including the Soviet Union -RCB- as Europe looks at Latin America : important but far away . But for us in Western Europe , these are Europeans next door . '' 
There is likely to be a natural division of labor , says Francois Heisbourg , director of the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London , with the U.S. more engaged in strategic issues with the Soviet Union , and Western Europe more involved with specific aid measures for the East . 
: West Germany is a net exporter of capital while the U.S. is n't . 
While American aid efforts have been limited by budget problems , yesterday France announced a three-year , four billion French franc -LRB- $ 650 million -RRB- aid plan for Poland . 
`` For Poland and Hungary we need to think about a stick-and-carrot economic approach that would force them to price things realistically in return for removing all our tariff barriers . '' 
He notes that the Marshall Plan of U.S. aid to Europe `` did n't just throw money at post-war Europe , it also liberalized and opened up those markets . '' 
`` Most of the West 's leaders have finally concluded that we all want perestroika -LCB- Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev 's policy of economic restructuring -RCB- to succeed , '' says Hubert Vedrine , security adviser to Mr. Mitterrand . `` But they have n't yet drawn the operational policy conclusions . '' He adds that with communism collapsing and Mr. Gorbachev scrambling to rejuvenate the Soviet economy , `` Our interest lies in a controlled transformation , a contained nuclear reaction , so we need to help him , and not just with words . '' Managing change , he adds , will require a lot more aid and a prominent role for the EC , especially in dealing with the question of German reunification . Thierry de Montbrial , director of the French Institutue for International Relations in Paris , says it is n't clear what , exactly , West Germany wants . Any push for a Gorbachev vision of a `` common European home , '' implying the eventual dissolution of the EC , a Soviet-German partnership and the withdrawal of U.S. forces , `` would be a very , very serious problem , '' he says . He doubts a Bismarckian super state will emerge that would dominate Europe , but warns of `` a risk of profound change in the heart of the European Community from a Germany that is too strong , even if democratic . '' He adds : `` We , and the rest of the EC have to talk to the Germans , now , frankly and raise these future risks with them . '' 
Managing change , he adds , will require a lot more aid and a prominent role for the EC , especially in dealing with the question of German reunification . 
Any push for a Gorbachev vision of a `` common European home , '' implying the eventual dissolution of the EC , a Soviet-German partnership and the withdrawal of U.S. forces , `` would be a very , very serious problem , '' he says . 
He doubts a Bismarckian super state will emerge that would dominate Europe , but warns of `` a risk of profound change in the heart of the European Community from a Germany that is too strong , even if democratic . '' 
In return , the U.K. and France could keep their nuclear weapons . He adds : `` Once both sides feel comfortable , it should be that much easier to make more progress toward the economic and social reforms that are now starting in the East . `` There seems to be a message from Moscow there 's a deal on offer , '' he says . `` They want reassurance we wo n't try to undermine or destroy the Warsaw Pact ... . 
In return , the U.K. and France could keep their nuclear weapons . `` They want reassurance we wo n't try to undermine or destroy the Warsaw Pact ... . 
He adds : `` Once both sides feel comfortable , it should be that much easier to make more progress toward the economic and social reforms that are now starting in the East . 
Rights attached to the company 's common shares were issued that are triggered if a hostile bidder acquires more than 20 % of the shares outstanding . 
Once triggered , the rights allow holders to buy additional shares at 50 % of the then current market price or , at the board 's discretion , to receive securities or assets . 
The company had a net loss of C$ 2.3 million , or 14 Canadian cents a share , a year ago . 
Sales were C$ 348.2 million compared with C$ 307.2 a year earlier . 
It has three U.S. branches . 
Mr. Schwarz , who is president of U.S. Trust , will be succeeded in that post by Jeffrey S. Maurer , 42 , who is executive vice president in charge of the company 's asset-management group . 
Mr. Schwarz says the competition `` broadens the base of opportunity for us . '' 
Other firms `` are dealing with the masses . 
I do n't believe they have the culture '' to adequately service high-net-worth individuals , he adds . 
`` Our bread and butter is still the $ 2 million to $ 20 million account , '' he says . 
The new services allow U.S. Trust to cater to the `` new wealth , '' Mr. Schwarz says . 
Assets as of Sept. 30 fell to $ 2.46 billion from about $ 2.77 billion . 
Mr. Schwarz 's father was a U.S. Trust trustee until 1974 . 
Donald M. Roberts , 54 , treasurer , and Frederick S. Wonham , 58 , who takes responsibility for the funds-service group , were named vice chairmen and will serve in the office of the chairman . 
Mr. Roberts continues as treasurer , and Mr. Wonham remains responsible for the offices of comptroller , planning , marketing and general services . 
One of those new computers , called Sparcstation 1 , accounted for nearly half of the 28,000 systems Sun shipped in the quarter , he said . 
Mr. Rogers , who was president and chief operating officer of Equifax , will retain his position as president . 
The balance of the company 's assets and liabilities would be transferred to a new company that would be owned by Sharon 's creditors . 
The agreement is subject to certain conditions , including obtaining financing . 
He remains chairman , but wields little power at the company . 
The company 's trustee , F.E. Agnew , was unavailable for comment . 
When he met with Mr. Bush on his return , Mr. Lee says , he told the president that the Chinese `` made statements to me that I regard as a first step toward reconciliation . '' 
Mr. Lee says Mr. Deng told him : `` We should not mind those who participated in demonstrations , signed anti-government materials and went on hunger strikes . '' 
Mr. Deng added , says Mr. Lee , that `` we really made mistakes . We must not shirk our responsibility and we can not just blame the demonstrators . '' 
We must not shirk our responsibility and we can not just blame the demonstrators . '' 
He says that the Chinese never asked him to convey their statements to President Bush , but that the White House spontaneously invited him to do so . 
Mr. Lee concedes the statements made to him are far different from others being issued in China , but attributes that to the fact that the situation in China is `` very complex . '' 
`` The president does n't want to have legislative sanctions , '' says a U.S. official . 
Beijing officials have said they will step up the campaign of arrests and intimidation against those who participated in the demonstrations . 
Sentences have been stiff . 
A university student got eight years for participating in the rallies , sources in Beijing said , while an 18-year-old worker got 10 years . 
So far , the victims are officially considered evil-doers , and their families receive no compensation . 
A man gunned down by a stray bullet while cycling to work carries , after his death , the official stigma of `` counterrevolutionary , '' his wife says . 
China frequently lambastes the U.S. Embassy for harboring astrophysicist Fang Lizhi , a political dissident who took refuge there after the massacre . 
A congressional staffer involved in drafting the sanctions says they are likely to mirror those Mr. Bush enacted shortly after the massacre . 
`` If the two sides are n't careful , U.S.-China ties could spin downward , out of control , '' says a U.S. official in Beijing . 
`` Bush and Deng are hoping -LCB- that -RCB- cooler heads prevail . 
A competing version of EPO is being developed by Genetics Institute Inc. in Cambridge , Mass . 
If tests indicated a low number of red cells , blood was n't taken . 
The volume of red cells donated by the EPO-treated patients was 41 % higher per donor , the research team representing a number of hospitals and blood banks reported . 
Labor and business leaders , quoted at the White House Rose Garden rites , hailed its provisions for insuring corporate pension benefits . 
IRAs were like stepchildren there . 
In 1972 , then Treasury Secretary George Shultz , with the key support of Sen. Carl Curtis , sought some form of pensions for the uncovered . That year a four-man group headed by William Lieber in the Legislation and Regulations division of the Office of the Chief Counsel for the Internal Revenue Service , was assigned the task of designing a plan . They used the 1962 Keogh Plan , a pension plan created by a New York congressman for the self-employed , as a partial model . This team initially called its new model Personal Retirement Account , or `` PRA . '' But it did n't sing . So they opted for IRA , naming it after Ira Cohen , a brilliant IRS actuary who helped them . 
That year a four-man group headed by William Lieber in the Legislation and Regulations division of the Office of the Chief Counsel for the Internal Revenue Service , was assigned the task of designing a plan . 
Ira , himself , confirms this account . 
One in 1981 raised to $ 2,000 a year from $ 1,500 the amount a person could put , tax-deductible , into the tax-deferred accounts and widened coverage to people under employer retirement plans . 
This caused an explosion of IRA promotions by brokers , banks , mutual funds and others . 
Commercial transactions will continue to be based on the official rate of about 0.63 rubles to the dollar . But for Soviet citizens who travel abroad for business or tourism , the rate will jump to 6.26 rubles to the dollar . 
As Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev has opened up the country to foreign trade , the discrepancy has become ever greater . 
Western tourists in the Soviet Union who could exchange a dollar -- albeit illegally -- for about four rubles a year ago are now being offered 15 rubles or more . 
They use dollars to buy Western items such as video recorders and personal computers and then sell them at a huge mark-up . 
The going rate for a small personal computer that costs about $ 2,000 in the West is anywhere from 50,000 to 100,000 rubles . 
Even a pack of 20 Western cigarettes can fetch 20 rubles or more . 
`` It 's much bigger than we expected , '' said one German banker , who asked not to be named . 
Over the past three years , thousands of people here have made use of looser travel restrictions to get their first taste of life abroad . But under current rules , they are allowed to change just 200 rubles into dollars and other currencies for each trip . At the new rate , that would give them about $ 30 to travel on . 
He said that American Telephone & Telegraph , MCI Communications Corp. , Rochester Telephone Corp. and IBM itself would likely be Digital 's subcontractors on the project . 
After 75 years there may be a few things that are worth reexamining . 
In earlier years it may have seemed reasonable to give Richmond , Va. , a bank and allow Los Angeles only a branch of the San Francisco bank , but times have changed . 
Maybe the whole regional system is an anachronism ; the Fed , after all , is a national central bank . 
Rep. Byron Dorgan -LRB- D. , N.D . -RRB- has introduced a bill in Congress , co-sponsored by Rep. Lee Hamilton -LRB- D. , Ind. -RRB- , that would put the treasury secretary back on the board . In the beginning , the treasury secretary and the comptroller of the currency were both ex officio members of the Federal Reserve Board . But in 1935 , when Congress was trying to find someone or something to blame for the Great Depression , it decided to drop both the secretary and the comptroller from the board . 
He said that when he was on the board he felt that he had a great deal of power and , somehow , he did n't think that was a good thing . 
Rep. Byron Dorgan -LRB- D. , N.D . -RRB- has introduced a bill in Congress , co-sponsored by Rep. Lee Hamilton -LRB- D. , Ind. -RRB- , that would put the treasury secretary back on the board . 
There is doubt that the change would accomplish much but at least Congress , as in 1935 , would be doing something . 
Mr. Dorgen has changed tactics , dropping the seat-for-the-secretary idea . 
After the October 1987 market crash , Mr. Brady as a private citizen headed a presidential commission that tried to decide what went wrong and what should be done about it . One of the commission 's recommendations was that a single agency , probably the Federal Reserve , should coordinate regulation of all financial markets . 
The Fed has plenty of responsibilities in times of market turmoil and in 1987 and again in 1989 it appears to have handled them well . 
Mr. Brady has said he thought government agencies in the latest market drop were better prepared to coordinate their actions , but he has left no doubt that he still likes the ideas the commission advanced nearly two years ago . 
The urging admittedly has been gentle . 
In an interview with the Washington Post in early October , the secretary said the Fed may be slightly more interested in curbing inflation than the administration is , while the administration may put slightly more emphasis on spurring economic growth . 
Earlier this month the St. Louis Fed held a conference to assess the system 's first 75 years . Allan Meltzer , a Carnegie-Mellon University economist , noted that the Fed 's record included the longest , most sustained , peacetime inflation in our history , dating from either 1966 or 1967 to 1989 . 
The central bank has been helping , but apparently not especially eagerly . 
When traders see the Fed is in the exchange market it may make them tread a little carefully , for fear of what the central bank may do . 
After August the Fed may have stopped sterilizing , but it 's hard to see much impact on the dollar . 
The dollar is still highly volatile . 
Trying to manage exchange rates to some desired level , he said , `` would mean diverting monetary and fiscal policies from their customary roles and thereby risking excessive inflation and unemployment and inadequate capital formation . '' 
Our ability to influence the outcome of events in Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union is far more marginal . 
Earlier this week , Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard A. Shevardnadze confessed that the U.S.S.R. ignored universal human values by invading Afghanistan and , to put it bluntly , `` engaged in a violation of the ABM Treaty '' by building its radar station at Krasnoyarsk . 
Hungary is no longer a `` Socialist Peoples '' republic , the Communist Party no longer has automatic delegates in the U.S.S.R. 's Congress of Peoples Deputies and Egon Krenz was not backed unanimously by his fellow party functionaries when he took over as East Germany 's new maximum leader . 
All of that is just for starters , or so the hundreds of thousands of Eastern Europeans in the streets seem to hope and are certainly demanding . 
The Japanese industrialist has coughed up at least $ 2 million , the Japanese government has put up just about as much , or so it is reported and at least one estimate puts the total tab at $ 7 million . 
Punching away , we raised what I still think were all the right issues and landed more than one hard blow , but at the end of the affair , there was just the tiniest nagging worry that we had been aiming at the wrong target . 
As one of his defenders so aptly put it , President Reagan was simply doing what he had always done before his election -LRB- and some would say thereafter as well -RRB- . 
He was performing for pay , and why should anyone expect anything more ? 
Selling the presidency for a mess of pottage is not so much a devaluation from the norm of public life today as it is a reflection of the disintegration of public standards . 
The theme song for the 1980s has been , `` Anything Goes , '' and it has been whistled with gusto from Wall Street to some of the highest peaks of televangelism . 
There is evidence to support that view . 
-LRB- See , for instance , Jim Bakker 's remarks upon being sentenced to prison this Tuesday for defrauding the faithful . -RRB- Consider the troubling dissonance between Mr. Shevardnadze 's speech of confession this week and the hang-tough defense of everyone concerned with the Iran-Contra affair . The Soviet foreign minister publicly concedes that his government `` violated norms of behavior '' in Afghanistan and just plain lied about the radar station . We have people in high place still lying through their teeth about Iran-Contra , and that apparently is n't going to change . For that matter , those long ago identified as liars are still given respectful hearings in the press . Eighty-three years ago , William James wrote to H.G. Wells : `` The moral flabbiness born of the exclusive worship of the bitch goddess success ... that , with the squalid cash interpretation put on the word success , is our national disease . '' But if it was the national disease in 1906 , it is today the national commonplace . If there is no law against it , do it . If the law leaves loopholes , use them . If there is no moral prohibition that expressly forbids it , full speed ahead . And if you are caught or if people complain , simply argue that `` everyone does it '' or `` no one said I should n't '' and brazen it out . As a last recourse , when all else has failed and you are pinned , apologize for having disappointed those who trusted you but deny having actually done anything wrong . 
If there is no law against it , do it . 
If the law leaves loopholes , use them . 
If there is no moral prohibition that expressly forbids it , full speed ahead . 
As a last recourse , when all else has failed and you are pinned , apologize for having disappointed those who trusted you but deny having actually done anything wrong . 
Consider the troubling dissonance between Mr. Shevardnadze 's speech of confession this week and the hang-tough defense of everyone concerned with the Iran-Contra affair . The Soviet foreign minister publicly concedes that his government `` violated norms of behavior '' in Afghanistan and just plain lied about the radar station . We have people in high place still lying through their teeth about Iran-Contra , and that apparently is n't going to change . For that matter , those long ago identified as liars are still given respectful hearings in the press . 
The Soviet foreign minister publicly concedes that his government `` violated norms of behavior '' in Afghanistan and just plain lied about the radar station . We have people in high place still lying through their teeth about Iran-Contra , and that apparently is n't going to change . For that matter , those long ago identified as liars are still given respectful hearings in the press . 
We have people in high place still lying through their teeth about Iran-Contra , and that apparently is n't going to change . For that matter , those long ago identified as liars are still given respectful hearings in the press . 
No one seems willing to hold anyone in public life to a standard higher than the narrowest construction of the law . 
The occasional media witch hunt about some politician 's private peccadilloes notwithstanding , the general inclination is to offer a version of the old refrain , `` Who am I to judge ? '' 
No , we ought to be mad because he has demeaned the office we gave him , enlisting it in the service of private gain , just as we ought to be mad that public officials lie through their teeth , play disingenuous games about their activities or , to steal a phrase , make public service a private trough . 
We did n't stampede into it , we slithered and slipped down the long slope , and now we have as its quintessential symbol a former president huckstering for a foreign poohbah . 
The directors added that the two executives have n't reached a final decision to proceed with a bid and that until an offer is made the board will continue seeking higher offers from other bidders . 
She declined to identify other bidders but said Mr. Drabinsky 's offer `` is all cash , and it 's for all of the company . '' 
Several Cineplex analysts have speculated that outside bids received by the committee were either disappointingly low or for only part of the company . 
`` If a bid materializes at that price , shareholders will have every reason to be glad , but the question of financing still remains . '' 
MCA strongly opposed the Drabinsky group 's move . 
In trading on the New York Stock Exchange , Cineplex closed at $ 11 , down 25 cents , with more than a million shares changing hands . On the Toronto Stock Exchange , Cineplex closed at C$ 12.875 , off 37.5 Canadian cents , well below the C$ 16.40 level . 
On the Toronto Stock Exchange , Cineplex closed at C$ 12.875 , off 37.5 Canadian cents , well below the C$ 16.40 level . 
Mr. Panet-Raymond said he does n't think Messrs. Drabinsky and Gottlieb are `` anywhere close '' to arranging financing and that investors will need a solid offer before the stock begins to rise again . 
In April , Hoechst , the largest producer of CFCs in West Germany , said it wanted to reduce production of the product by 50 % by 1993 . 
Perrier , sold by Perrier Group of America , a unit of Source Perrier S.A. of Paris , and Evian , sold by a U.S. unit BSN of France , are distributed to urban areas nationally , but are less available in rural communities . 
Coors , with its large beer-distribution network , could penetrate more markets . 
The company said it will sell the water plain and with lemon-lime and cherry flavors and will package it in 28-ounce bottles and 6.5 ounce bottles as part of six-packs . 
U.S. officials said the plan was flexible , and was intended as a pragmatic approach for gradually removing trade-distorting subsidies . 
`` The American proposal is not an adequate basis for negotiation , '' the EC said in a statement . 
EC Agriculture Commissioner Ray MacSharry said the U.S. plan `` calls into question '' the agreement reached by world negotiators last April in Geneva seeking `` substantial progressive reductions in agricultural support and protection . '' 
He said he was surprised by the EC 's reaction , calling it `` vehement , even frenetic . '' 
While many experts argue that food-importing nations would eventually become self-sufficient in a free-market system , the poorest nations are likely to need help in the meantime . 
The U.S. argues that its plan would ease the transition to freer agriculture trade by converting certain non-tariff barriers into tariffs that , together with existing tariffs , then would be phased out over 10 years . 
It would establish procedures to prevent countries from using health and sanitation rules to impede trade arbitrarily . 
Terms of the accord were n't disclosed . 
In 1988 New Era sought a permanent injunction to restrain Henry Holt & Co. from publishing `` Bare-Faced Messiah '' on the ground that Mr. Miller 's quotations from Mr. Hubbard infringed the copyrights . 
The publisher argued in response that the `` fair use '' statute permits quotation `` for purposes such as criticism , comment , news reporting , teaching , ... scholarship , or research . '' 
As for the merits , Judge Leval said that Mr. Miller had written `` a serious book of responsible historical criticism . '' 
`` The biographer\/critic , '' Judge Leval wrote , `` should not be required simply to express ... conclusions without defending them by example . 
'' In such circumstances , free-speech interests outweighed the interests of the copyright owner . 
He distinguished the two cases : In Salinger , Judge Leval noted , the quotations were for the purpose of enlivening the biography rather than of proving points about the subject . 
: In Salinger , Judge Leval noted , the quotations were for the purpose of enlivening the biography rather than of proving points about the subject . 
Judge Leval reluctantly concluded that a few of Mr. Miller 's quotations from Mr. Hubbard 's unpublished writings , because they were not necessary to prove historical points , failed the fair-use test and therefore infringed copyright . 
In a decision in April of this year , Judge Roger Miner , joined by Judge Frank Altimari , agreed on denying the injunction and did not doubt that `` Bare-Faced Messiah '' was a serious work but rejected Judge Leval 's argument that the public interest in scholarship could outweigh the sanctity of copyright . 
`` We conclude , '' the two judges wrote , `` that laches is the sole bar to the issuance of an injunction . '' Had the suit been filed in time , they said , `` Bare-Faced Messiah '' would have been suppressed . 
Had the suit been filed in time , they said , `` Bare-Faced Messiah '' would have been suppressed . 
In a powerful separate opinion , Judge Oakes further distinguished the Salinger case by pointing out that a living person , like Mr. Salinger , had privacy rights that did not apply to a dead man , like Mr. Hubbard . 
`` I thought that Salinger might by being taken in another factual context come back to haunt us . 
This case realizes that concern . '' 
Judges Miner and Altimari do not appear to have a clue . 
As matters stand , the Salinger ruling , torn from context and broadly construed , is controlling . 
If an author quotes `` more than minimal amounts '' of unpublished copyrighted materials , as the Salinger decision had it , `` he deserves to be enjoined . '' The courts have not defined `` minimal amounts , '' but publishers , I understand , take it to mean about 50 words . 
A second decision , handed down in August by the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit , is another blow against scholarship . 
The quotes could not be found on the tapes , and the two judges who decided the case for Ms. Malcolm and her publishers conceded that , for the purpose of their decision , `` we assume the quotations were deliberately altered . '' 
While judges have an obligation under the First Amendment to safeguard freedom of the press , `` the right to deliberately alter quotations is not , in my view , a concomitant of a free press . '' 
No such statement appears on the tapes . 
The majority cited Mr. Masson 's remark `` It 's me alone ... against the rest of the analytic world '' as warrant for the Malcolm fabrication . 
Again , no such statement appears on the tapes . 
The majority decision contended that the phrase was a rational interpretation of Mr. Masson 's description of himself as a `` private asset but a public liability '' to Anna Freud and that in any case it was not defamatory . 
Judge Kozinski found the derivation entirely strained and writes that `` for an academic to refer to himself as an intellectual gigolo is ... a devastating admission of professional dishonesty . '' 
As Robert Coles wrote in a review of Ms. Malcolm 's book , Mr. Masson emerges `` as a grandiose egotist ... and , in the end , a self-destructive fool . But it is not Janet Malcolm who calls him such : his own words reveal this psychological profile . '' 
: his own words reveal this psychological profile . '' 
We now know that the words were not always his own . 
`` The writer must not invent . '' 
Should the green light Judges Alarcon and Hall have given to the fabrication of quotations become standard practice , it will notably reduce the value of journalism for historians -- and for citizens . 
As Judge Kozinski put it : `` To invoke the right to deliberately distort what someone else has said is to assert the right to lie in print ... . Masson has lost his case , but the defendants , and the profession to which they belong , have lost far more . '' 
Masson has lost his case , but the defendants , and the profession to which they belong , have lost far more . '' 
They speak volumes about the state of our society at a given moment . 
In the 1920s , a young schoolteacher , John T. Scopes , volunteered to be a guinea pig in a test case sponsored by the American Civil Liberties Union to challenge a ban on the teaching of evolution imposed by the Tennessee Legislature . The result was a world-famous trial exposing profound cultural conflicts in American life between the `` smart set , '' whose spokesman was H.L. Mencken , and the religious fundamentalists , whom Mencken derided as benighted primitives . Few now recall the actual outcome : Scopes was convicted and fined $ 100 , and his conviction was reversed on appeal because the fine was excessive under Tennessee law . 
The result was a world-famous trial exposing profound cultural conflicts in American life between the `` smart set , '' whose spokesman was H.L. Mencken , and the religious fundamentalists , whom Mencken derided as benighted primitives . 
Few now recall the actual outcome : Scopes was convicted and fined $ 100 , and his conviction was reversed on appeal because the fine was excessive under Tennessee law . 
His trials aroused public passions out of all proportion to the rather banal secrets he allegedly had passed to Soviet intelligence . 
Dr. Morgan has just emerged from the D.C. jail after more than two years ' confinement for contempt of court , a heroine to her many supporters . 
It presents no great issue of legal principle , no overriding question of family law or the law of contempt . 
It is difficult , if not impossible , for anyone who has not pored over the thousands of pages of court pleadings and transcripts to have a worthwhile opinion on the underlying merits of the controversy . 
Certainly I do not . 
I suggest that three themes have come together in the strange case of Dr. Morgan . 
The vehemence of the emotions aroused by the case testifies to its symbolic importance in the war that Thurber accepted as an eternal part of the human condition . 
Dr. Morgan is a highly educated white professional who attended some of the `` best '' schools . 
As members of the Black Caucus in Congress asked during the debate on the legislation that freed Dr. Morgan , does anyone seriously believe that if she were an uneducated , black , working-class woman , Congress would have rushed to pass a private relief bill freeing her ? 
The local government is discredited in the eyes of many residents for a variety of reasons , and congressmen read the same newspapers and watch the same TV newscasts as other people in the area do . 
Bashing the D.C. government is risk-free for members of Congress , who do not have to answer to their own constituents for it . 
It may stand as a metaphor for how wide and deep the divisions in that society continue to be however we try to deny their existence . 
`` Arby 's is n't for sale , '' said Renee Mottram , senior vice president at DWG . 
Richard Buckley said Stevric 's acquisition of Arby 's `` would allow seasoned franchisers and food-service operators , with no conflicts of interest , to stabilize franchisee relations and properly refocus the company 's energies toward growth . 
Earnings for GM common stock , reflecting the performance of GM 's core automotive operations , will be disclosed this morning . 
GM Class H , which represents a dividend interest in Hughes earnings , closed at $ 29 , up 25 cents in Big Board composite trading . 
GM Class E , which represents a dividend interest in EDS profit , fell 75 cents to $ 52.25 on the Big Board . 
That decline was reflected in revenue for the GM Hughes unit , which edged down to $ 2.58 billion from $ 2.63 billion . 
Revenue rose 3.5 % to $ 8.47 billion from $ 8.18 billion . 
The finance unit attributed the decline to higher borrowing costs compared with a year earlier . 
GMAC said its automotive financing and leasing business rose 35 % in the U.S. , largely because of dealer and customer incentives used to boost sales . 
Revenue rose 12 % to $ 1.37 billion from $ 1.22 billion . 
Revenue rose 14 % to $ 4.03 billion from $ 3.54 billion . 
Revenue from non-GM accounts was 45 % of EDS 's total business in the latest nine months , compared with 40 % a year earlier . 
The company has said it wants to boost non-GM revenue to at least 50 % of its total business by the end of 1990 . 
Mr. Kalmus said that by next July they would have accrued unpaid interest equal to $ 350 million . 
Other plans generally would n't pay unsecured creditors ' interest accrued since the filing . 
It would be 72%-owned by United Illuminating holders and 28%-owned by current holders of PS of New Hampshire preferred and common stock . 
United Illuminating said the preferred holders total package would equal about 60 % of their claims . 
Common shareholders would end up owning about 6.4 % of the combined company . 
That offer was endorsed by the shareholders committee . 
New England Electric values its offer at $ 2 billion and PS of New Hampshire values its reorganization plan at $ 2.2 billion . 
Northeast Utilities ' plan proposes 5.5 % annual increases . 
The new offer assumes just five years of 5.5 % rate increases , to be followed by state-approved increases under the usual hearing procedure . 
Most of the plans have reduced bids in case the plant fails to get a license from the Nuclear Regulatory Commission . 
The utility 's stock closed at $ 4 a share , up 37.5 cents , in composite trading on the Big Board . 
It said the maximum cost of the plan would be $ 9.7 million . 
It was , after all , only his second full day as chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission . 
As the stock market lurched into a 190-point free fall on Oct. 13 , Mr. Breeden found himself scurrying around the sixth floor of the SEC -- from his desk , where the New York Stock Exchange was on an open line , to his assistant 's office , where the Commodity Futures Trading Commission was connected , to a third room , where a computer monitored market moves . 
With other anxious calls pouring in , he recalls , `` I 'd either have to disconnect the New York Stock Exchange or go out to the secretary 's desk . '' 
Now there are more lines connected to the chairman 's office , and the market-monitoring computer has been moved next to his desk . 
It 's all part of a new `` command center . '' 
A veteran of another financial crisis , the savings-and-loan bailout , Mr. Breeden wants to have the SEC regulate securities issued by banks and S&Ls . 
He believes the tax code encourages the use of debt instead of stock and may fuel leveraged buy-outs , an area the SEC does n't regulate directly but one where it wields influence both on Wall Street and in Congress . 
As a former White House aide who worked closely with Congress , he is savvy in the ways of Washington . 
He may be waiting to see the results of several pending SEC studies of junk market liquidity and disclosure rules . 
Members of the Senate Banking Committee know Mr. Breeden from working on the thrift-bailout bill , and the relationship generally remains warm . 
As a regulator charged with restoring investor confidence , Mr. Breeden avoided making market-jarring comments and worked to gather information critical to Wall Street and to other government agencies . 
Some in Washington contend that it 's too soon to tell whether Mr. Breeden will help or hinder the SEC . 
`` I do n't think this was a real test , '' says one congressional aide . `` It was a fairly stressful weekend , but my sense is if you had n't had Richard Breeden there , it would n't have made much of a difference . '' 
`` It was a fairly stressful weekend , but my sense is if you had n't had Richard Breeden there , it would n't have made much of a difference . '' 
They note that he has adorned his office with five photos of George Bush , one of them featuring the First Dog , Millie . 
They worry that Mr. Breeden also will roll over when told to do so by the White House . 
During the Monday market rebound , a New York exchange spokesman told Cable News Network viewers that the industrial average had turned down 70 points . Stunned , Mr. Breeden turned to his market-monitoring computer , which by then was next to his desk . It showed the DJIA up 30 points . SEC staffers soon determined that a widely watched stock-market service , Quotron , had miscalculated the industrial average . Mr. Breeden instructed SEC staffers to inform the network that it was airing the wrong number . `` It was the plunge that did n't happen , '' he says . 
Stunned , Mr. Breeden turned to his market-monitoring computer , which by then was next to his desk . 
It showed the DJIA up 30 points . 
Mr. Breeden instructed SEC staffers to inform the network that it was airing the wrong number . 
Mr. Breeden , not missing a chance to press his agenda , cited the earthquake . 
That event , he contended , simply shows the `` vulnerability '' of having listings on only one exchange . 
The highlight : a `` fragrance control system . '' 
Suzuki Motor Co. 's Escudome sport vehicle features a pop-out rear tent and invites drivers to go `` back to the nature . '' 
Virtually every automotive analyst in New York showed up . 
Detroit-to-Tokyo flights were booked solid this week as Motor City executives , including Ford Motor Co. Chairman Donald E. Petersen and Chrysler Corp. Vice Chairman Gerald Greenwald , flocked to see the future . 
Even the Soviet Union came , for the first time in 24 years , to show off its Lada Niva sedan and its futuristic dark-blue `` Kompakt '' model . 
These `` active suspension systems '' electronically sense road conditions and adjust a car 's ride . 
Existing suspension systems try to absorb bounces , but active suspension provides power to counter the jolts . 
Toyota Motor Corp. grandly touted its system in a car that splits in half to reveal the suspension 's inner workings . 
: The Japanese , for now , are keeping active suspension for domestic use only . 
In the so-called two-stroke engines , which are expected to get sharply higher gas mileage , each piston goes up and down only once to provide power . 
The show 's symbol is a woman riding on a snail , not your usual metaphor for speed and agility . 
: `` Through the character associated with a snail , '' they say , `` important values such as harmony with nature and aspirations for the future are sought . '' 
Honda has a tiny motorcycle called the Monkey , and a slightly larger cousin , the Gorilla . 
Mitsubishi has a futuristic delivery truck called the Guppy . 
Mazda has the Bongo truck and , under its Autozam nameplate , a `` microvan '' called the Scrum . 
Its buglike Carol minicar is `` designed with softness , gentleness and warmheartedness . '' 
One of its futuristic concepts is the bubblelike Sneaker , which seats just one person in front and could hold a small child and bag of groceries in the rear . 
Regie Nationale des Usines Renault , the French auto maker , has a concept car called the Megane . The name is supposed to connote feminine grandeur , but in Japanese it means `` eyeglasses . '' 
AB Volvo invites passers-by to play `` the role of the test dummy '' by hopping in a car that simulates a crash to show just how its seat-belt tightener works . 
Hyundai Motor Co. of South Korea has its first-ever exhibit in Tokyo . 
True , Ford was declared the winner Sunday , but only after the Honda driver who crossed the finish line first was disqualified because it hit another car and skid momentarily out of bounds . 
`` It 's hard for the Japanese , '' he says , `` to get a feeling in a car , to get a passion in a car , to get emotion in a car . 
It 's ridiculous for a family with taxable income of $ 50,000 to pay the same 28 % incremental tax rate as a family with taxable income of $ 250,000 . 
The 33 % bracket should apply to all income over the applicable level , not just the 5 % rate adjustment amount . 
He predicted that PWA would have little difficulty attracting prospective buyers . 
PWA said two of the Boeing 767-300ER aircraft scheduled for delivery in 1990 would be leased out for two to five years . 
It 's focused on streamlining '' PWA 's fleet in a bid to cut training and aircraft servicing costs , the analyst said . 
John Padovan , 51 years old , was named a deputy chairman . 
Callum McCarthy , 45 , was named to the new post of deputy head of the corporate-finance division and a managing director . 
The House is scheduled to vote today on an anti-airline-takeover bill that would block , for up to 50 days , any bid for 15 % or more of a U.S. airline , even a straight cash purchase . 
Transportation Secretary Sam Skinner , who earlier fueled the anti-takeover fires with his quasi-xenophobic attacks on foreign investment in U.S. carriers , now says the bill would further disturb the jittery capital markets . 
Texas Rep. Steve Bartlett , who has 40,000 American Airlines workers in his district , says the bill is `` good politics , but bad law . '' 
It is ironic that at a time when America 's partial airline deregulation is being emulated by governments from New Zealand to Ethiopia , so many in Congress favor an incumbent-protection program for airlines that would be more appropriate for the Soviet airline , Aeroflot . 
`` Such a deadline is attainable , but it would have costs , '' Mr. Greenspan told Rep. Neal 's monetary policy subcommittee . 
He did n't elaborate . 
He altered the wording to win Mr. Greenspan 's endorsement . 
In an interview , Mr. Vila criticized his old show , which is continuing with a new host . 
`` Last season , we did a story that involved spending $ 700,000 in converting a two-family house into a bed and breakfast . '' 
In the new show , he said , `` we 're going to spend $ 60,000 building a start-up house '' for a young couple . 
His contract makes him `` exclusive '' spokesman for Sears 's home improvement marketing campaigns . 
Ogilvy & Mather in Chicago , a unit of WPP Group PLC , will handle the advertising account and syndication . 
His other agreements to promote products have expired . 
Little matter for Mr. Vila , who complains that `` public TV never paid me more than $ 40,000 a year . '' 
He said his compensation under the Sears contract is `` a multimillion dollar deal . 
`` It 's a tremendous disappointment , '' said Janet Hathaway , an attorney with the Natural Resources Defense Council . `` Allowing the EPA to condone continued use of a chemical whenever the benefits outweigh the risks is absolutely anathema to the environmental community . '' 
`` Allowing the EPA to condone continued use of a chemical whenever the benefits outweigh the risks is absolutely anathema to the environmental community . '' 
There already are proposals pending in Congress to overhaul pesticide law . 
The agency has since acted to remove Alar from the nation 's grocery shelves by May 31 , 1991 , and the apple industry has said that growers already have stopped using the chemical . 
Chemicals that exceed these risk levels would be barred , but those that fall below these levels would be allowed . 
Long-term Treasury bonds rose slightly despite the arrival on the market of $ 4.52 billion in 30-year bonds offered by the Resolution Funding Corp. as part of the government 's bailout of the savings and loan industry . 
The dollar was barely changed against the West German mark and up marginally against the Japanese yen . 
Traders said the stock market 's lurching moves have prompted many investors to head for the sidelines until it regains some semblance of stability . 
Bond investors paid close attention to comments by Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan , who was testifying before a congressional hearing , but were n't able to extract many clues about the future course of the Fed 's monetary policy . 
Many analysts are expecting the Fed to lower interest rates at least once more before the end of the year . 
Economists predict the report will show economic growth of about 2.5 % in the third quarter , which would have little effect on financial markets . 
Volume on the New York Stock Exchange totaled 155.7 million shares . 
The Treasury 's benchmark 30-year issue rose less than an eighth of a point , or less than $ 1.25 for each $ 1,000 of face amount . 
The yield on the issue stood at 7.88 % . 
In late New York trading the U.S. currency was quoted at 1.8353 marks and 141.52 yen , compared with 1.8355 marks and 141.45 yen Tuesday . 
We scribblers quickly concurred that not only was the bad rep of big-time college sports richly earned , but also that it could be corrected . 
Competition could be maintained -- and stadiums probably would remain full -- if schedules were reduced and the games returned to the students , we said . 
Comments from the audience reflected widespread , if wistful , agreement with those conclusions . 
`` It 's like the U.S. and the Russians : Nobody wants to disarm first . '' 
: Nobody wants to disarm first . '' 
Three new books make the point that one large price of the glittery college-sports show can be the integrity of the schools that stage it . 
They are : `` A Payroll to Meet : A Story of Greed , Corruption and Football at SMU '' -LRB- Macmillan , 221 pages , $ 18.95 -RRB- by David Whitford ; `` Big Red Confidential : Inside Nebraska Football '' -LRB- Contemporary , 231 pages , $ 17.95 -RRB- by Armen Keteyian ; and `` Never Too Young to Die : The Death of Len Bias '' -LRB- Pantheon , 252 pages , $ 18.95 -RRB- by Lewis Cole . 
'' ; it should be required reading for every college president . 
It chronicles how , over a period of a dozen years , Southern Methodist University bought its way to football respectability in the Southwest Conference , only to find itself trapped and strangled by the athlete-payoff system it created . 
Given current headlines about the University of Florida , it may not be the last . 
One recruiter working with Mr. Meyer was so generous with $ 10 and $ 20 bills that prospects sang `` Here Comes Santa Claus '' when he approached . 
It involved the athletics director , two different football coaching staffs , and school trustees and governors -- just about everybody , it seemed , but Donald Shields , the university 's president . 
There 's a memorable passage in which Mr. Shields , having finally learned of the practice , expresses his outrage to Bill Clements , then a university governor -LRB- and now the governor of Texas ! -RRB- and oil man Edwin Cox , chairman of the board of trustees . 
`` Go run the university . '' 
Mr. Keteyian had to do most of his own digging on University of Nebraska football , which is , to date , high and dry as far as the NCAA is concerned . 
Unfortunately , he gets low grades as an investigative reporter , relying heavily on what Chicago 's late mayor , Richard J. Daley , called `` insinuendo . '' 
A serious charge -- that star flanker Irving Fryar `` threw '' the 1984 Orange Bowl game by intentionally dropping a pass in the end zone -- is included , even though the Nebraska assistant coach quoted denied making it . 
Dean Steinkuhler , a spectacularly bulked-up former lineman , confesses that he used 'em , and says other Huskers did too . 
It 's a mystery how this could have escaped the notice of Nebraska coaches . 
Probably , it did n't . 
Those , of course , were the responses of people with something to hide . 
One wonders how other college athletic officials would behave under the same circumstances . 
Stores in Hispanic areas will stock an assortment of Spanish-language magazines , Mexican cooking items and candies . 
Stores in the company 's core middle-class market will get more frozen and quick-to-prepare foods and a greater selection of bottled water . 
`` Convenience store merchandise has not kept pace with current trends in consumer preferences , '' he said in a speech at the company 's annual shareholders meeting . 
`` Those are primarily white-collar workers , a customer segment that has historically proved elusive for convenience stores . '' 
`` We certainly see an increasing trend toward that , '' she added . 
Analysts said the company 's effort will be helped by its decision last year to put point-of-sale scanners in 200 stores , allowing National Convenience to quickly track items that are selling and those that are n't . 
Pittston seeks changes in health and pension benefits , among other things . 
The spokeswoman said the exchange would resume trading of Delmed stock today . 
The current distribution arrangement ends in March 1990 , although Delmed said it will continue to provide some supplies of the peritoneal dialysis products to National Medical , the spokeswoman said . 
Said the spokeswoman : `` The whole structure has changed . 
The value of the company has changed . '' 
It added that no discussions about such a sale are under way . 
The water destroyed about $ 75 million in currency and caked $ 4 million of coins with mud , rendering them dangerous to counting machines . 
The U.S. Mint would n't take the coin because it was n't mutilated , and the Federal Reserve Bank accepts only clean coins , he says . 
`` We issue paper money ; we destroy paper money , '' says Jane Hinkle , a Philadelphia Fed spokeswoman . 
; we destroy paper money , '' says Jane Hinkle , a Philadelphia Fed spokeswoman . 
`` The coin is their problem . '' 
A giant heater , working like a blowtorch , causes the mud to crust and burns off any wrappers . 
After clanging around for an hour or so , the shiny , hot money pours out of the cement chute , where a giant vacuum sucks away the dried mud and burnt wrappers . 
Not only did his company find $ 20,000 worth of work , but when the approach was suggested , Mr. String says , Brooks officials `` did n't laugh at me or anything . 
It seems that every day a new movie opens featuring a child coping with a mother 's death , or adoption , or aging parents , or pregnancy . 
: When it comes to compelling drama , there 's no place like home . 
This is not the case . 
Some diaries simply are n't worth snooping in . 
These are the sensitive souls who can empathize with and even enjoy hearing about other people 's troubles , no matter how haltingly or predictably the sad tale is told . 
The film makers have couched this offensive idea in pretty packaging . 
Everyone is very nice and good-looking -- the adoptive parents -LRB- Glenn Close and James Woods -RRB- and the teen-age couple who decide to give up their baby for adoption -LRB- Mary Stuart Masterson and Kevin Dillon -RRB- . 
The actors wear pained expressions to indicate their genuine longing for a little one -- or maybe they 're not-so-subtly commenting on the inadequacy of the script , and Jonathan Kaplan 's -LRB- `` The Accused '' -RRB- dull direction . 
; when a character arrives at a major decision her thoughts are revealed by the sound of `` I Can See Clearly Now . '' 
Everyone falls in love with everyone else . 
There is some pain , when Lucy has the baby and `` did n't know she would feel like this '' and wants to keep the baby . 
Like lawyers in the hostile takeover field , the baby goes where the money is . 
His characters practically scamper through a vast range of human emotions , like travelers doing 10 cities in eight days . 
They pause only to register little whimpers of distress and sighs of satisfaction , like tourists cataloging the sights they 've seen from the window of a bus . 
For the second time , in a movie called `` The Bear , '' French director Jean-Jacques Annaud demonstrates just how powerful pictures can be . 
-LRB- `` Quest for Fire '' was the first time . -RRB- 
Supposedly , he proposed the movie to his producer , Claude Berri , in four lines : `` An orphan bear cub . A big solitary bear . Two hunters in the forest . The animals ' point of view . '' 
Even if the gross national product is either flat or in the growth range of 2 % to 2.5 % , `` we can handle that , '' Mr. Marous said . 
Mr. Marous said the business will achieve higher sales this year than the company 's target goal of 8.5 % . 
Mr. Lego said the company foresees the need for a major boost in new-generation capability throughout the 1990s . 
The company 's ability to respond to energy needs world-wide will be enhanced through a recently announced venture with Mitsubishi Heavy Industries , Mr. Lego said . 
The company is negotiating with the Soviets to build a Thermo King truck-refrigeration plant that would produce about 10,000 units annually . 
The deal , which will involve an initial $ 20 million investment , was struck with a handshake , he added . 
The executives did n't disclose the size of the expected gain . 
Because of an error by the National Association of Securities Dealers , the listing appeared incorrectly in the main table and several highlight tables in yesterday 's edition . 
Among other concerns , the agency says researchers with business ties are more likely to falsify findings in order to tout new drugs . 
As ties between academia and venture capital have blossomed in recent years , governmental fear of abuse has risen . 
After that , it will make a final decision on the policy . 
With $ 2.3 million , he and other investors launched Lithox last year to market a gallstone cure being developed by researchers of the University of California at San Diego . The researchers , who are being financed by the Lithox funds , will receive a royalty , or percentage of sales , if their research yields a commercial product . But because the University of California , like many other universities , shares its royalties with researchers , it may disqualify itself from federal funds under the proposed guidelines , Mr. Daly says . 
Scientists Rima Kaddurah-Daouk and Paul Schimmel conducted the initial research at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology . 
While Ms. Kaddurah-Daouk left MIT to head Amira , Prof. Schimmel will continue to work at MIT , serve on Amira 's board and own a small equity stake in the company . 
While universities develop the basic research , `` venture capitalists are the ones best positioned to finance its commercialization , '' says Gloria W. Doubleday of Commonwealth . 
`` This is the best way to transfer technology straight off the campuses of universities . '' 
Last year , venture capitalists spent an estimated $ 600 million to finance start-up companies in medical and biotechnology businesses , according to the National Venture Capital Association , a trade group . 
Many of the deals involved transactions in which scientific institutions or researchers agreed to commercialize their work in return for an equity stake or royalties . 
Investors were willing to gamble on new technologies because `` we had exclusive rights to those technologies , '' he adds . 
`` Without the exclusivity , most venture capitalists wo n't have the incentive to invest in such deals , '' Mr. Bock says . 
Athena eventually acquired exclusive rights to the technology and currently is developing it . 
If start-ups ca n't have early access to research being conducted at institutions , `` we have to replicate it ourselves or do without the research , '' says Ruth Emyanitoff , manager of business development at Applied bioTechnology Inc. , a Cambridge , Mass. , concern . 
Duplicating research is both costly and time-consuming for a start-up , Ms. Emyanitoff says . 
Universities such as Harvard and MIT should be able to develop a way to act as brokers for the individual scientists , says Katherine Bick , who oversees the huge NIH grants program as its deputy director for extramural research . 
Not long ago , scientists holding stock in Spectra Pharmaceutical Services Inc. were accused of falsifying research to boost the stock . 
A congressional subcommitee has been investigating the potential abuse from researchers holding stock in companies exploiting their research . 
The predictions of doom are `` premature , '' she says . 
On Sept. 14 , Harvard began circulating a conflict-of-interest policy statement that , in effect , would follow the NIH guidelines faithfully . 
In many other institutions , scientists are shunning contacts with venture investors until the NIH policy is settled . 
The damage is already done . 
Personally , I 'm irked by its combination of ponderousness and timidity , which adds up to an utter lack of drama . 
One reason for its downfall was the murder trial of D.C. Stephenson , an Indiana leader whose reckless career is depicted in this film starring Mel Harris -LRB- `` thirtysomething '' -RRB- and John Heard . 
GE Capital Corp. , a financial services subsidiary of General Electric Co. , is providing Merksamer management with $ 15 million in financing . 
At that time , Sam Merksamer , president of the chain , angrily denied that his company was about to file . 
Mr. Merksamer is leading the buy-out . 
One executive said an accord signed by the unsecured creditors of L.J. Hooker Corp. had frozen in place all of L.J. Hooker 's assets . 
`` By filing for Chapter 11 , the Merksamer chain will only need approval from a bankruptcy judge for the sale , not the hundreds of unsecured creditors , '' said this executive . 
`` The cash from the sale will go to L.J. Hooker , but the company itself will belong to Sam Merksamer . '' 
In a statement , Mr. Merksamer described the filing as a `` legal technicality , '' but also said that `` our inability to obtain trade credit , combined with a need to ensure that our stores were properly stocked for the Christmas season , necessitated our filing Chapter 11 . '' 
Now it 's on the fence . 
It was the first time since January that Renaissance has thought stocks are worth owning . 
The other half of its portfolio is expected to remain invested in Treasury bills for the time being . 
As reported , PaineWebber bought shares Tuesday as part of a customer strategy shift , although the broker 's client was said then to have been Japanese . 
Yesterday , PaineWebber declined comment . 
; to make buy or sell moves , the firm solicits Wall Street brokerage houses a day or so in advance , looking for the best package price to carry out the trades . 
The broker winning the business does n't charge commissions , but instead profits by buying or selling for less than the overall package price . 
In Tuesday 's gyrating session , the Dow Jones Industrial Average fell by 80 points early in the day , but finished with less than a four-point loss . 
The Dow average now stands more than 20 % higher , while Renaissance 's portfolio of Treasurys produced a return of about 6 % through the first three quarters of the year . 
The computer 's miscalculation has been painful for Renaissance . 
Almost any money manager holding stocks has turned in better results , while Renaissance has played it safe with Treasury bills . 
Are those declines enough to signal a partial return to stocks ? 
During that time , a buyer with the clout of a Renaissance could end up driving up the price of stocks it was trying to buy if it tipped its hand . 
`` Our -LCB- computer -RCB- model has a certain trigger point , '' he said . When the computer says switch , Renaissance switches . 
When the computer says switch , Renaissance switches . 
Almost all have involved at least half and often the firm 's entire portfolio , as the computer searches for the most undervalued investment category , following a money-management style called tactical asset allocation . 
After MGM\/UA terminated the $ 1.5 billion merger because of a dispute over a $ 50 million letter of credit , Qintex Entertainment -- which is 43%-owned by Qintex Australia -- found itself facing problems of its own . 
Qintex Entertainment was depending on Qintex Australia to arrange financing . 
He recommended that the company file for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code before the MCA deadline , according to a source familiar with the sessions . 
Mr. Evans resigned . 
Later in the day , according to the source , the board reversed itself , decided to file for bankruptcy protection , and asked Mr. Evans to stay on . 
Mr. Evans told the board he needed the weekend to think about it . 
Mr. Evans could n't be reached yesterday for comment . 
Last week the company indicated it would cut back on the working capital it would supply to Qintex Entertainment . 
Qintex Australia said it had n't seen the suit and could n't comment . 
On top of this , the traveler who converts his dollars into foreign currency before the trip starts will lose interest from the day of conversion . 
At the end of the trip , any unspent foreign exchange will have to be converted back into dollars , with another commission due . 
Typically , he will be billed only several weeks after the expenditure , and then has another couple of weeks before he has to pay the bill . 
The remaining properties to be acquired are the Tropicana Country Club & Golf Course , a facility jointly owned by Ramada Inc. , of Phoenix , Ariz. , and the Jaffe family , and a small parcel owned by MGM Grand director James D. Aljian . 
Construction is set to begin in early 1991 . 
The facility will be marketed toward families , and room rates will be between $ 35 and $ 55 a night , MGM Grand said . 
Assets soared $ 4.5 billion in the previous week . 
The average seven-day compound yield , which assumes that dividends are reinvested and that current rates continue for a year , fell to 8.47 % , its lowest since late last year , from 8.55 % the week before , according to Donoghue 's . 
Money funds invest in such things as short-term Treasury securities , commercial paper and certificates of deposit , all of which have been posting lower interest rates since last spring . 
The average yield on six-month CDs of $ 50,000 or less at major banks was 7.96 % in the week ended Tuesday , according to Banxquote Money Markets , a New York information service . 
The average maturity of the taxable funds that Donoghue 's follows increased by two days in the latest week to 40 days , its longest since August . 
The average seven-day compound yield of the funds reached 9.62 % in late April . 
The top-performing fund in the latest week was Dreyfus Worldwide Dollar , with a seven-day compound yield of 9.45 % . 
The fund invests heavily in dollar-denominated money-market securities overseas . 
It is currently waiving management fees , which contributes to the higher yield . 
The average 30-day simple yield slid to 8.22 % from 8.26 % , and the average 30-day compound yield fell to 8.56 % from 8.60 % . 
: They got hurt by investing in the highly risky junk bond market , and the pain is worse because they did it with borrowed money . 
The strategy boosts current yield by putting more bonds into the portfolio . 
`` Share prices performed even worse than the funds ' asset values because fear has taken hold '' in the junk market , he says . 
Leverage is used only by some of the closed-end funds . 
The fallout for investors lately has been painful . 
With a leveraged position of about 45 % , the fund 's share price has plunged 28.5 % so far this year . 
That 's worse than the price drop sustained by the bonds in its portfolio , whose total return -LRB- bond-price changes plus interest -RRB- has amounted to a negative 6.08 % . 
`` If someone actually sat down and thought about what they were being sold , '' says Gerald Perritt , editor of the Mutual Fund Letter in Chicago , they might shy away . 
If the market surges , holders can make that much more profit ; the leverage effectively acts as an interest-free margin account for investors . 
; the leverage effectively acts as an interest-free margin account for investors . 
Carl Ericson , who runs the Colonial Intermediate High Income Fund , says the fund 's 25 % leverage has jacked up its interest income . 
`` As long as I am borrowing at 9.9 % and each -LCB- bond -RCB- yields over that , it enhances the yield , '' he maintains . 
New America High Income Fund recently said that it plans to reduce its leverage position by buying back $ 5 million in preferred stock and notes from investors . 
The fund made a similar move earlier this year . 
She declined to elaborate and would n't disclose the fund 's recent purchases , sales or cash position . 
`` When the market turns around , '' she says , `` it will give a nice picture '' of how leverage can help performance . 
Some have raised their cash positions to record levels . 
High cash positions help buffer a fund when the market falls . 
He says the fund , which is 40 % leveraged , has maintained a `` substantial cushion '' between its borrowing costs and the yields of the portfolio 's bonds . 
`` I do n't want to be in a position to have to sell , '' Mr. Frabotta says . 
At the 50%-leveraged Zenith Income Fund , portfolio manager John Bianchi recently dumped Mesa Petroleum , Wickes and Horsehead Industries , among others , to raise his cash position to a record 15 % . 
He concedes : `` This is the most difficult market that I 've been involved in . '' 
`` At some point , if we are unable to cover our leveraged cost -- and at the moment we 're right on it -- we 're going to have to make a move . 
It could cost taxpayers $ 15 million to install and BPC residents $ 1 million a year to maintain . 
Created by an artist who flaunts her ignorance of plants and gardens , South Gardens , as now planned , will die from congestive garden design . 
Mayhap this metaphorical connection made the BPC Fine Arts Committee think she had a literal green thumb . 
I view this as a building . '' 
The firm of Bruce Kelly\/David Varnell Landscape Architects had created Central Park 's Strawberry Fields and Shakespeare Garden . 
She has done little more than recycle her standard motifs -- trees , water , landscape fragments , rudimentary square houses , circles , triangles , rectangles -- and fit them into a grid , as if she were making one of her gridded two-dimensional works for a gallery wall . 
In a letter to the BPCA , kelly\/varnell called this `` arbitrary and amateurish . '' 
The landscape architects were expelled from the garden in July . 
As she put it in a 1987 lecture at the Harvard Graduate School of Design : `` I have designed a garden , not knowing the difference between a rhododendron and a tulip . '' 
After that , the layout had been easy . 
`` I 've always relied heavily on the grid and found it never to fail . '' 
Ms. Bartlett told her audience that she absolutely did not believe in compromise or in giving in to the client `` because I do n't think you can do watered-down versions of things . '' 
-LRB- This was never a problem with South Gardens , because the client had long since given in to Ms. Bartlett 's every whim . -RRB- 
At the core of it all is a love for plants . '' 
They looked at the miniature and saw a giant folly . 
Ms. Bartlett 's little rooms left little room for plants or people . 
Kelly\/Varnell had put South Gardens ' carrying capacity at four people per room , or about 100 humans overall . 
This mincemeat of tiny gridlocked squares was inspired by the artist 's own digs : `` My loft was 50 by 100 feet , so 50 feet by 50 feet seemed like a good garden room . '' 
One she made into a topiary rec room , replete with plants shaped into a Barcalounger , TV , piano and chairs . 
In another , she requisitioned topiary MX missile cones -- costing $ 10,000 each -- in heights up to 20 feet . 
Another she stuffed with eight `` rectilinear hedges '' for a topiary geometry lesson in the right-angling of plants . 
In the herbal lounge she specified a `` plaid knot garden '' decor . 
She ordered the foyer done in a different plaid planting , and made the landscape architects study a book on tartans . 
Next door she put a smaller plaid-floored glass house , where , she suggested , a flat of strawberries might be displayed in the dead of winter . 
Ms. Bartlett blithely suggested calling upon `` semi-skilled garden club workers for maintenance . '' 
It was hard to see how photosynthesis would ever happen in South Gardens without decking the walls in a Christmas-like array of Gro-Lites . 
She ran it the length of the South Gardens riverfront , blotting out the city 's great natural water features , the harbor and the river . 
-LRB- Within her garden , she has decreed a waterfall , a rill , ponds and other costly , trivial waterworks beside the Hudson . -RRB- 
The Parks Council wrote the BPCA that this `` too ` private ' ... exclusive , '' complex and expensive `` enclosed garden ... belongs in almost any location but the waterfront . '' 
Lynden B. Miller , the noted public garden designer who restored Central Park 's Conservatory Garden , recalls her reaction to the South Gardens model in light of the public garden she was designing for 42nd Street 's Bryant Park : `` Bryant Park , as designed in 1933 , failed as a public space , because it made people feel trapped . By removing the hedges and some walls , the Bryant Park Restoration is opening it up . It seems to me the BPCA plan has the potential of making South Gardens a horticultural jail for people and plants . '' 
By removing the hedges and some walls , the Bryant Park Restoration is opening it up . 
The 8 ft. hedges which obstruct views in and out of small ` rooms ' insure ... that this garden will be a potential breeding ground for crime . '' 
-LRB- At Harvard , Ms. Bartlett had declared : `` There are going to be problems with safety ... I 'm not going to address questions of safety ! '' -RRB- 
I 'm not going to address questions of safety ! '' -RRB- 
BPCA President and CEO David Emil hopes to negotiate a seawall that could `` be significantly more visually permeable . '' 
After four years of no progress in this direction , it is doubtful any viable collaboration with Ms. Bartlett will suddenly now be possible . 
It is this adapting of absurd ` knots ' and patterns from old books to any surface where a flower garden has to be made that leads to bad and frivolous design -- wrong in plan and hopeless for the life of plants . 
Mr. Angell is incorrect when he states that the Soviet Union 's large gold reserves would give it `` great power to establish credibility . '' 
During the latter part of the 19th century , Russia was on a gold standard and had gold reserves representing more than 100 % of its outstanding currency , but no one outside Russia used rubles . 
The most likely reason for this disparity is that the Bank of England was a private bank with substantial earning assets , and the common-law rights of creditors to collect claims against the bank were well established in Britain . 
It is no coincidence that from 1844 to 1914 , when the Bank of England was an independent private bank , the pound was never devalued and payment of gold for pound notes was never suspended , but with the subsequent nationalization of the Bank of England , the pound was devalued with increasing frequency and its use as an international medium of exchange declined . 
One way to make the ruble into a major international currency would be to leave reserves of gold and earning assets in a Swiss bank with distributions based on Swiss laws . 
; lending practices vary widely by location . 
After the study , the SEC would be willing to consider adding new circuit breakers or fine-tuning the current ones , he added . 
At certain points during the Friday the 13th drop , circuit breakers kicked in on the futures market , slowing trading at times . 
A circuit breaker that would have closed down the New York Stock Exchange was n't tripped . 
He argued that program-trading by roughly 15 big institutions is pushing around the markets and scaring individual investors . 
After the SEC study of the drop is completed , he said , `` I 'm perfectly happy to work with this committee ... in identifying whether we need other devices , '' such as a program-trading curb . 
The measure is expected to move through this Congress . 
He argued that the current circuit-breaker system allows investors to know `` precisely when and where any trading interruptions will occur and how long they will last . '' 
Such loans often are used to finance leveraged buy-outs , and the agency is worried that a sharp market drop could create capital problems for the firms . 
That information , he argued , is critical to reconstructing sharp market moves , such as the one nearly two weeks ago . 
It is unclear what effect the sale of the shopping centers will have on earnings . 
They are spread around the country and include locations in California , Florida , Washington and Arizona . 
The company is active in office and residential development in New York . 
The company typically sells the centers it develops , but has usually sold only one or several at a time . 
So much of the stuff poured into its Austin , Texas , offices that its mail rooms there simply stopped delivering it . 
Now , thousands of mailers , catalogs and sales pitches go straight into the trash . 
`` It 's the overload problem and the weight problem we have . '' 
Businesses across the country are getting fed up with junk mail , and some are saying they just are n't going to take it anymore -- literally . 
While no one has tracked how many company mail rooms throw out junk mail , direct-mail advertising firms say the number is growing . 
According to the Direct Marketing Association , total direct mail -- to both businesses and consumers -- jumped 50 % to 65.4 billion pieces in 1988 from five years earlier . 
Though direct mail to businesses is n't broken out separately , the association says it 's growing even faster . 
After all , this is the industry that has a hard enough time getting any respect , that is the butt of so many jokes that television 's `` L.A. Law '' portrays direct-mail-mogul David as short , bald , intensely nerdy , and unremittingly boring . 
Magazines are n't delivered at all , even if an individual 's name is listed ; employees who want their magazines have to pick them up from the mail room or the company library -- and are told to change the subscriptions to their home addresses . 
`` If they get 50 packets of something , they open one , see what it says , throw 48 away and send two to people or departments they think are appropriate , '' a spokesman says . 
As of March 1 , its Flint office , with about 2,500 employees , stopped delivering bulk mail and non-subscription magazines . 
Employees were told that if they really wanted the publications , they would have to have them sent home instead . 
The reason : overload , especially of non-subscription magazines . 
They 're going to decide what their employees can or can not read . '' `` Why anyone would want to close themselves off -LCB- from direct mail -RCB- , a priori , does n't make any sense , '' says Michael Bronner of Bronner Slosberg Associates , a Boston directmail firm . `` It smacks of big brotherism . 
`` It smacks of big brotherism . 
They 're going to decide what their employees can or can not read . '' 
Jack Ellis , a U.S. postal inspector in New York , says the Postal Service 's only job is to deliver the mail to the mail room ; once it gets there , a company can do with it what it wishes . 
So far , they say , it has n't had any noticeable effect on response rates . 
Among other things , the industry is trying to come up with standardized business lists that cut down on duplications . 
`` We 're going to have to mail a lot less and a lot smarter , '' says Jack Miller , president of Quill Corp. , a Lincolnshire , Ill. , business-to-business mail-order company . 
TV ads plugging the company 's new V-6 Sonata and its souped-up Excel subcompact will begin appearing Monday . 
As the announcer reads favorable quotes about the model from Motor Trend and Road & Track magazines , the other car , which is white , slowly turns green . 
`` No wonder the competition 's green with envy , '' the announcer says . 
Terms were n't disclosed . 
The Chivas ad illustrates -- via a series of pullouts -- the wild reactions from the pool man , gardener and others if not given Chivas for Christmas . 
The three-page Crown Royal ad features a black-and-white shot of a boring holiday party -- and a set of colorful stickers with which readers can dress it up . 
Mr. Packwood all but conceded defeat , telling Mr. Mitchell : `` I sense at this stage you may have the votes . '' 
Their tone was good-natured , with Mr. Packwood saying he intended to offer the proposal again and again on future legislation and Sen. Mitchell saying he intended to use procedural means to block it again and again . 
`` There is a one-out-of-three shot of getting it this year , '' said Sen. David Boren of Oklahoma , a leading Democratic proponent of cutting the capital-gains tax . 
He called the battle `` uphill . '' 
`` There will be no capital-gains bill this year , '' said Sen. Dale Bumpers -LRB- D. , Ark . -RRB- . 
`` I 'm probably not going to vote for any capital-gains proposal . 
The IRA portion -LRB- of the Packwood-Roth plan -RRB- is irresponsible . '' 
Mr. Mitchell has made clear to his wavering colleagues that the issue is important to him personally . 
Estimates requested by Sen. Mitchell from the Congressional Joint Taxation Committee show that the richest 100 taxpayers got an average benefit from the capital-gains differential of $ 13 million each in 1985 , the last year for which figures are available . 
A capital-gains tax cut might be paired with such measures to help ensure passage . 
Other possibilities include a child-care initiative and an increase in the minimum wage . 
Before an inventory in 1984 that showed the `` disappearance '' of 944 coins valued at about 2.9 million French francs -LRB- about $ 465,000 -RRB- , there had n't been any stock-taking since 1868 . 
The state Supply Regulator Institute is to burn rice , corn and beans that spoiled because of neglect and corruption in the previous Christian Democrat government , a statement from the information service SISAL said . 
During the past administration the foodstuffs were first bought by the institute , then sold at low prices to `` unscrupulous businessmen '' who resold them to the institute at inflated prices , the statement said . 
Another 250 Libyans were already in Italy to stage a day of mourning for victims of Italy 's colonial rule between 1911 and 1943 , when Tripoli says Rome kidnapped 5,000 Libyans and deported them as forced labor . 
Libya 's revolutionary Committees have threatened attacks on Italians if Rome does n't pay compensation . 
The council unanimously opposed the idea of AGIP pumping out the methane gas and swiftly appealed to the company and to Prime Minister Giulio Andreotti , who has yet to reply . 
`` It 's unlikely extracting the gas will cause subsidence , '' says a spokeswoman . 
Revenue was about $ 4.5 million . 
In the 1988 third quarter , the company posted a net loss of $ 876,706 , or 22 cents a share , on revenue of about $ 5.1 million . 
It is primarily a certified outpatient treatment facility providing comprehensive services to people with epilepsy and their families . 
The institute 's advocacy efforts are based on the needs of the population it serves and represents . 
`` They contend it is based on an assumption that has not yet been proven in valid tests , '' the Tribune said . 
The institute has governmental service contracts for the provision of direct patient services ; collects patient fees ; receives money through contributions from individuals , foundations and bequests . 
; collects patient fees ; receives money through contributions from individuals , foundations and bequests . 
; receives money through contributions from individuals , foundations and bequests . 
The funds received from pharmaceutical firms are used to offset physician symposiums , and these symposiums do not stress any particular medication or manufacturer . 
Surely not to people with epilepsy who depend on the same levels of medication in their bloodstream daily to maintain seizure control . For whom is the saving ? 
Visitors , whisked from the Strip on a moving walkway , will glide over a habitat for rare white tigers , which will star in performances by the famed illusionist team of Siegfried & Roy . 
Nearby , six dolphins will frolic in a 1.5 million-gallon saltwater aquarium . 
In the lobby behind its nine-story , orchid-strewn atrium , a 20,000-gallon aquarium will come alive with sharks , stingrays , angelfish , puffers and other creatures of the deep . 
It 's the most stunning example of Las Vegas 's concerted effort to transform itself into a world-famous vacation resort for families as well as gamblers . 
Las Vegas has seen nothing quite like it before . 
Now the Mirage and Circus Circus Enterprises Inc. 's $ 290 million Excalibur are going up . 
Still other projects that have been announced but not yet started could put expenditures above $ 3 billion over the next few years . 
`` If you create a wonderment , if you create something so exciting that the public dreams of being part of it , then they 'll come , '' he says . 
By a rule of thumb of 1.5 new jobs for each new hotel room , Clark County will have nearly 18,000 new jobs . 
After all , 40,000 newcomers a year are settling in the Las Vegas Valley . 
City fathers have managed to push through projects that are crucial for tourist growth , such as the expansion of McCarran International Airport to accommodate the 44 % of Las Vegas tourists who fly here . 
This year , by one means of transport or another , more than 18 million people will visit the city . 
Las Vegas promises , or threatens , to become a giant carnival , with rooms to be had for $ 45 a day or less , for visitors uninspired solely by gambling . 
The Palace , with its marble fountains and toga parties for high rollers , is already well-known for its Caesarean theme . 
Other casino owners , Circus Circus among them , are financing their expansion with their own cash and revolving credit lines from local lenders such as First Interstate Bank of Nevada . 
Casino revenues and hotel occupancy rates are high . 
Last year , the tourists left $ 3 billion with the area 's casinos , nearly 10 % more than in 1987 . 
Ellen Cokely , a tourist from Alton , Ill. , seems inclined to agree . 
`` I 'd love it if my daughter had something else to do here , '' says Ms. Cokely , watching seven-year-old Kristin on the water slide at the Strip 's Wet 'n' Wild water park . 
`` One generation ago , Mom joined Dad . 
Now , in the '90s , we 're headed toward a total resort environment . '' 
Casinos today offer bowling alleys , water parks , golf courses , tennis courts , lush swimming pools and other diversions , and more such facilities are being designed . 
This is no place for pedestrians , but at 7:30 on a recent morning , when construction choked traffic at the famous Four Corners intersection to one lane , a taxi passenger found it faster to abandon the cab and walk to her destination . 
It has happened before . 
The Dunes , the Aladdin and the Riviera were all acquired by the present owners from bankruptcy proceedings spawned by the last recession , in the early 1980s . 
Some have bought big chunks of Strip property for what may turn into another wave of building . 
Atlantic City casino owner Donald Trump is scouting the Las Vegas market with an eye toward building an appropriately spectacular place . 
Many blue-collar customers of downtown 's no-frills gambling spots have been lured to the Strip or to Laughlin , Nev. , a Colorado River town catering to snowbirds and the recreational-vehicle crowd . 
Since 1979 , the number of motel rooms has fallen by 17,000 . 
`` There 's probably going to be some pressure on occupancy and room rates over the next year , but after that you should see the market return to 80%-plus occupancy and regular rates , '' says Paul Rubeli , casino executive at Ramada Inc. , which runs the Tropicana . 
The Mirage will cost at least $ 1 million a day to operate . 
Mr. Wynn seems confident that it will produce a healthy profit , but some securities analysts doubt it . 
Competitors and analysts say that among large existing properties Bally Manufacturing Corp. 's Bally Grand hotel-casino probably will be hardest hit among major properties . 
Bally officials decline to discuss the situation . 
Only now is it undergoing a badly needed facelift . 
Its parking lot is inconvenient , the MGM lion's-head logo still appears in places , and customers still call it the Grand , rather than the Bally Grand . 
It has a `` great location , but they 're going to have some real problems when everyone around them opens , '' says Daniel Lee , a Drexel analyst . 
`` If you do n't know what you are , bigger wo n't make you better , '' he says . `` But it 'll sure make you poorer . '' 
The Circus Circus lures them with low room rates , inexpensive buffets and entertainment for children at no extra charge . 
Its castle , Mr. Schaeffer says , will be `` the most compelling piece of folk architecture ever built . '' 
`` More rooms are n't the answer for us , '' says Caesars World chairman Henry Gluck . 
While his company 's hotel is building a retail complex in Beverly Hills style and redoing existing rooms , it has decreased the number of its rooms . 
Some have been combined into suites for the high rollers . 
`` There 's still room for boutique properties , '' says James Barrett , president of MarCor Resorts Inc . 
Off the Strip , MarCor is building the Rio , a hotel-casino with a Brazilian theme and only 430 rooms -- all of them suites . 
`` The days when when the thrust of casinos was all high rollers , with no windows and clocks and lots of red and black decor , are gone , '' Mr. Sain of the visitors ' bureau says . 
We ca n't lose sight of that . 
The Floral Park , N.Y. , thrift has a strong capital-to-assets ratio , said Vice President Michael D.N. Confer . 
; If he approve he shall sign it , but if not he shall return it , with his Objections to that House in which it shall have originated , who shall enter the Objections at large on their Journal , and proceed to reconsider it . 
If after such Reconsideration two thirds of that House shall agree to pass the Bill , it shall be sent , together with the Objections , to the other House , by which it shall likewise be reconsidered , and if approved by two thirds of that House , it shall become a Law ... . 
Vice President Quayle and Budget Director Darman said recently they 've joined the search . 
On Tuesday , the subject came up again when Marlin Fitzwater explained the constitutional argument based on the provisions above to the White House press corps . 
The harder question is whether anyone yet understands that Mr. Bush 's fight for his constitutional prerogatives is about politics as much as it is about law . 
The 1974 budget `` reform , '' passed over President Nixon 's veto , took away the presidential impoundment power , thereby introducing monstrous CRs and eviscerating the presidential veto . 
Article I , Section 7 , Clause 3 says that whether it 's called an `` order , resolution or vote '' or anything else , Presidents must have the chance to veto . 
Labeling an omnibus budget a `` bill '' ca n't deprive the President of his power to veto items . 
The White House had the perfect case , but Congress blinked before it could go to court . 
After the HUD and S&L stories broke , some Congressmen began to worry that their influence peddling at executive-branch and independent agencies might some day get them in trouble . 
They worried about an Interior Department directive to log all communications with Members or their staffs . 
Congress inserted the following into the Interior appropriation : `` None of the funds available under this title may be used to prepare reports on contacts between employees of the Dept. of the Interior and Members and committees of Congress and their staff . '' 
When it threatened to use this provision as the test for a line-item veto , Congress caved . 
The fear Congress has of any line-item-veto test led Members to add the single most contorted and ridiculous provision this year , `` This section shall be effective only on Oct. 1 , 1989 . '' 
This means Interior contacts can not be logged only on one day -- a Sunday that had already passed . 
Commenting on the budget mess this week , President Bush said : `` The perception out there is that it 's the fault of Congress . 
Now 's the time to make the political case that Presidents need the line-item weapon to restore discipline to the budget . 
Just this week , the House-Senate conference met -- 231 conferees , divided into 26 different subconferences . 
Senator Daniel Inouye agreed to close some bases in Hawaii in exchange for such goodies as $ 11 million for a parking lot at Walter Reed Hospital . 
Conference negotiator Rep. Bill Hefner pulled down $ 40 million in military bases for North Carolina and graciously allowed Senator James Sasser $ 70 million for bases in Tennessee . 
He should chop out both unconstitutional provisions and budget pork . 
President Bush has the power to change how Washington works , if only he will use it . 
They immediately termed the proposal inadequate and said the restructuring would not solve the company 's problems . 
It is having trouble meeting its debt payments because of heavy borrowing in 1987 for a leveraged buy-out . 
KKR would give up a 31 % equity stake to bondholders , while Mr. Gillett would surrender an 8 % stake . 
While one big SCI TV investor thinks that 's pretty generous , many junkholders had been hoping that KKR and Mr. Gillett would invest new money in SCI TV . 
Those investors think SCI TV needs new equity to survive . 
`` It 's a misconception that physical fitness is something for the young and middle-aged , '' says Michael Pacholik , sales manager of the LA Fitness club , Diamond Bar , Calif . 
About 10 % to 15 % of members at Atlanta 's Holiday Espre Center are elderly , says Gerald Williams , fitness consultant . 
Michael Hays , head of ProBody Fitness , notes an industry `` wash '' is in progress . `` Clubs need to be run like restaurants where every square foot makes a dollar , '' he says . 
`` Clubs need to be run like restaurants where every square foot makes a dollar , '' he says . 
Older people help profits by filling in `` downtime . '' 
He adds : `` The medical market and the fitness market parallel each other and are going to cross real soon . '' 
; over 55 wins a 45 % discount at Anaheim Imperial Health Spa . 
The agency is working on licensing importers but does n't currently monitor imports . 
`` We believe that the vast majority of imported material is safe . 
Mr. Hickey added that the stones found in Hong Kong are thought to carry double the U.S. radiation limit , although he noted that double or even triple the U.S. limit is `` still in the range of safe levels . '' 
Other venture capitalists are already there : MMG Patricof Group and its Alan Patricof Associates , New York ; Burr , Egan , Deleage & Co. , Boston ; and San Francisco 's Hambrecht & Quist have about $ 800 million to invest in European companies . 
Continentals believe that the strongest growth area will be southern Europe . 
Spain and Italy are most often mentioned as the future economic hot spots . 
Most popular acquisition method : the leveraged buy-out . 
The bureau found that only two of six New York furniture stores could prove their presale prices were higher . 
The FCC plans to hear a day of testimony Nov. 16 on the plight of AM radio . 
The commission believes that improving AM service would broaden listening selections and increase options for advertisers . 
AM stereo remains largely undeveloped because it lacks a uniform delivery system . 
The National Association of Broadcasters in June adopted an agenda for revitalizing AM radio that includes , among other things , pursuing further FCC action on selecting an AM stereo standard and seeking a law requiring all stereo receivers to include AM stereo . 
Over the past nine months , several firms , including discount broker Charles Schwab & Co. and Sears , Roebuck & Co. 's Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. unit , have attacked program trading as a major market evil . 
Last month , program trading accounted for 20.9 million shares a day , or a record 13.8 % of the Big Board 's average daily volume . 
Kemper officials declined to identify the firms but acknowledged a long-simmering dispute with four securities firms and said the list of brokers it wo n't do business with may be lengthened in the months ahead . 
`` Index arbitrage does n't work , and it scares natural buyers '' of stock . 
We 've talked to proponents of index arbitrage and told them to cool it because they 're ruining the market . 
They said , ` Too bad , ' so we finally said we 're not going to do business with them . '' 
`` The New York Stock Exchange has vested interests '' in its big member securities firms `` that cloud its objectivity , '' Mr. Timbers said . `` It has never been interested in what we think . The Big Board also has a terrible communication problem with individual investors , '' he added . 
`` It has never been interested in what we think . 
`` The impression I 've got is they 'd love to do away with it -LCB- program trading -RCB- , but they -LCB- the exchange -RCB- ca n't do it , '' he said . 
He said the market 's volatility disturbs him , but that all the exchange can do is `` slow down the process '' by using its circuit breakers and shock absorbers . 
`` We continue to believe the position we 've taken is reasonable , '' a Morgan Stanley official said . `` We would stop index arbitrage when the market is under stress , and we have recently , '' he said , citing Oct. 13 and earlier this week . Michael Carpenter , president and chief executive officer at Kidder Peabody , said in a recent interview , `` We do n't think that index arbitrage has a negative impact on the market as a whole . '' 
`` We would stop index arbitrage when the market is under stress , and we have recently , '' he said , citing Oct. 13 and earlier this week . 
Michael Carpenter , president and chief executive officer at Kidder Peabody , said in a recent interview , `` We do n't think that index arbitrage has a negative impact on the market as a whole . '' 
He added that `` having just one firm do this is n't going to mean a hill of beans . 
The issue , which is puttable back to the company Nov. 1 , 1994 , was priced at a spread of 70 basis points above the Treasury 's five-year note . 
The noncallable issue , which is puttable back to the company Nov. 1 , 1994 , was priced at a spread of 62.5 basis points above the Treasury 's five-year note . 
Serial bonds , which all carry 7 % coupons , are priced to yield from 6.30 % in 1992 to 7 % in 2000 . 
Serial certificates yield to 7.10 % in 2004 . 
There are $ 12,915,000 of 7 % term certificates due 2007 , priced to yield 7.15 % . 
The $ 58.9 million of 7 % certificates due 2016 carry the issue 's high yield , priced at 97 3\/4 to yield 7.19 % . 
Environmental protection program current interest bonds are due 1995-1999 , 2005 and 2009 . 
The standard capital appreciation bonds in the issue , due 1998-2011 , yield to maturity from 6.70 % in 1998 to 7.10 % in 2009-2011 . 
The convertible capital appreciation bonds all yield 7.25 % to their respective conversion dates , when they become 7 1\/4 % current interest-bearing bonds until maturity . 
Convertible capital appreciation bonds with a final stated maturity of Nov. 15 , 2019 , convert Nov. 15 , 2004 . 
All the issues were priced at a spread of 37 basis points above the Treasury strips with similar maturities . 
`` I 'm now monitoring every major account . '' 
This is no longer true because of Campeau 's massive debt load . 
`` People wonder what 's going to happen next . '' 
`` I 'm buying fabric right now for clothes which I may not be paid for until April or May . 
What happens to me if Campeau collapses between now and then ? '' 
`` This is especially true for spring merchandise , '' says Jim Rindos , credit manager at Bernard Sands . 
`` Campeau has too much debt . '' 
`` Payments are good right now , but we are n't recommending any long-term lines of credit , '' says Richard Hastings , a retail credit analyst , referring to credit lines which make inventory purchases automatic . 
`` The Campeau situation is a little uncertain and very difficult to analyze . '' 
`` We 're being paid today , but we 're worried about tomorrow and will want '' letters of credit , says the sales director at one major dress maker who asked not to be identified . 
I 'm going to ship and hope I get paid . 
If I need to ask for money up front later , I will . '' 
`` They continue to pay their bills and will do so , '' says Ms. Sanger . 
`` We 're confident we 'll be paying our bills for spring merchandise as well . '' 
If goods are shipped to Bloomingdale 's between Oct. 1 and Oct. 20 , manufacturers expect to be paid by Nov. 10 . 
Some in the market question whether Campeau will be in a position to pay bills at that time . 
`` The buyers who work for the various Campeau chains may lose their jobs . 
The stores they work for may be sold . 
What that will mean for manufacturers is anybody 's guess . '' 
`` We expect they will be current with their debts by the end of the week , but we are considering asking them for letters of credit before we take more orders . '' 
`` It 's become a day-by-day business , '' he says . 
Not only does your product have to be excellent , but you also have to be able to collect . '' 
Bud Konheim , president of Nicole Miller Inc. , says his company is now shipping only to the flagship stores of the Federated and Allied chains . 
This limits his financial exposure , he says . 
`` Why should I be part of that problem ? 
I 've got limited production , and I ca n't give it to underperformers . '' 
`` Many of the branches are very lucrative , '' she says . `` That 's just nonsense . '' 
`` That 's just nonsense . '' 
`` If they slip for 10 cents for 10 minutes , I 'll stop , '' he says . 
It has n't diversified beyond steel , nor has it linked up with a joint venture partner to share costs and risks . 
Ms. Applebaum had estimated third-quarter earnings of 55 cents a share , but said the losses for the unusual items were larger than expected . 
The company said its shipments declined as a result of a reduction in inventories by service centers , a lackluster automotive market and increasing competitive pressures in the construction market . 
Sales dropped to $ 441.1 million from $ 820.4 million , because the company no longer consolidates its Eastern Steel division , which is now a joint venture with Kawasaki Steel Corp . 
Operating profit dropped 46 % in its specialty flat-rolled steel segment . 
Sales increased in the quarter ended Sept. 30 to $ 747.8 million from $ 623.5 million a year ago . 
Last year 's results were hurt by $ 41.3 million in restructuring charges . 
Failure of U.S. equipment makers , IBM fears , would leave it dependent on many of the Japanese companies that compete with it in other parts of the market . 
IBM already participates in one industrywide effort to improve semiconductor-manufacturing techniques . 
A state-of-the-art plant cost $ 40 million in the mid-1970s but costs $ 500 million today because the technology is so complex . 
IBM said it thought more companies would become interested as the project progresses . 
They can make the masks brittle and can pass through material they 're not supposed to . 
`` Mr. Lortie felt less pertinent , '' Mr. Nadeau said , given the decision to dump Provigo 's non-food operations . 
`` At this stage it was felt I was perhaps more pertinent as chief executive . '' 
Provigo was the most active industrial stock on the Montreal Exchange , where it closed at C$ 9.75 -LRB- US$ 8.32 -RRB- , up 75 Canadian cents . `` I think it 's a pretty positive development , '' said Ross Cowan , a financial analyst with Levesque Beaubien Geoffrion Inc. , of the decision to concentrate on groceries . Mr. Lortie 's departure , while sudden , was seen as inevitable in light of the shift in strategy . `` The non-food operations were largely Mr. Lortie 's creation -LCB- and -RCB- his strategy did n't work , '' said Steven Holt , a financial analyst with Midland Doherty Ltd . 
Mr. Lortie 's departure , while sudden , was seen as inevitable in light of the shift in strategy . 
`` The non-food operations were largely Mr. Lortie 's creation -LCB- and -RCB- his strategy did n't work , '' said Steven Holt , a financial analyst with Midland Doherty Ltd . 
For the six months ended Aug. 12 , Provigo posted net income of C$ 6.5 million , or eight Canadian cents a share , compared with C$ 18.1 million , or 21 Canadian cents a share , a year earlier . 
Sales were C$ 4.2 billion compared with C$ 3.7 billion . 
Last month , Canadian Bond Rating Service downgraded Provigo 's commercial paper and debentures because of its lackluster performance . 
Mr. Nadeau said he could n't yet say if the sale prices would match book values . 
He said all three non-food operations are profitable . 
He declined to confirm or deny reports that Provigo executive Henri Roy is trying to put together a management buy-out of the catalogue showroom unit . 
Mr. Bussieres was president and chief operating officer of Provigo 's Quebec retail and wholesale grocery unit . 
Sterling was quoted at $ 1.6145 , up from $ 1.6055 late Tuesday . 
Lawrence Insurance , based in Albany , N.Y. , plans to use the $ 22.5 million in proceeds to help finance the acquisition of United Republic . 
`` If you have both -LCB- labor -RCB- groups on strike , you 've got no revenue and that 's a very scary thing for a bank to be looking at . '' 
That gives them both the threat of a strike and the ability to resist any wage concessions that may be necessary to make a transaction work . 
`` There 's less likelihood of creating and completing a transaction without the unions ' cooperation and wage concessions , '' said Richard Nye , of Baker , Nye Investments , a New York takeover stock-trader . 
`` The pilots will be involved in any transaction that takes place around here , '' pilot union chairman Frederick C. Dubinsky declared yesterday . 
At the very least , the pilots want some form of control over the airline , perhaps through super-majority voting rights . 
`` We may be able to reach a tradeoff where we can accommodate -LCB- the pilot union 's -RCB- concerns and ours , '' said Brian M. Freeman , the machinists ' financial adviser . 
`` Who wants to be a public shareholder investing in a company controlled by the pilots ' union ? '' asks Candace Browning , an analyst at Wertheim Schroeder & Co . 
`` Who would the board be working for -- the public shareholders or the pilots ? '' she adds . 
In that way , the pilots may be able to force the board to approve a recapitalization that gives employees a majority stake , or to consider the labor-management group 's latest proposal . 
The board and UAL 's management , he says , `` ca n't go back '' to business as usual . 
`` The pilots wo n't let them . 
Passenger traffic jumped 14 % in the quarter , while profit per passenger grew 2 % . 
For the nine months , America West posted earnings of $ 18.9 million , or 97 cents a share , compared with a loss of $ 9.7 million , or 74 cents a share , a year earlier . 
Revenue rose 27 % to $ 715.1 million from $ 563.8 million . 
On June 30 , loss reserves stood at $ 108.3 million . 
Because Columbia now must sell the bonds within five years , accounting rules require the thrift to value the bonds at the lower of cost or market prices . 
The price of Columbia shares has been cut nearly in half since August , when they traded at about $ 10 , as investors apparently realized that the thrift would be forced to take a big write-down . 
The stock 's decline accelerated in the past two weeks , from a price of $ 8 a share on Oct. 9 . 
Its ratio of tangible equity to total assets as of Sept. 30 was 3.6 % , and total equity was $ 457.9 million . 
Some experts now predict Anheuser 's entry into the fray means near-term earnings trouble for all the industry players . 
Anheuser said it 's discounting policy basically would involve matching such moves by rivals on a market-by-market basis . 
Third-period sales were $ 2.49 billion , up from last year 's $ 2.34 billion . 
The projection sent Anheuser shares plunging $ 4.375 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday . 
The stock closed at $ 38.50 on heavy volume of about 3.5 million shares . 
Shares of Coors , the company 's sole publicly traded major competitor , fell $ 1.50 apiece to $ 19.125 in national over-the-counter trading , apparently on investor concerns over potential fallout from the coming pricing struggle . 
Anheuser said it continues to hold to its earlier-announced goal of a 50 % U.S. market share by the mid-1990s . 
`` Anheuser is the biggest guy in the bar , and he just decided to join in the barroom brawl , '' said Joseph J. Doyle , an analyst with Smith Barney , Harris Upham & Co . 
`` It 's going to get bloody . '' 
Mr. Thompson calls discounting `` a loser 's game for anyone without a dominant market share , '' and projected that Anheuser 's statement of intent could simply be a means of warning competitors to ease up on price-cutting or face a costly and fruitless battle . 
While the third-quarter earnings were a `` moderate disappointment , '' he said , `` the real bad news is the intensity of price competition '' in the premium-beer sector . 
It 's followed by Stroh Brewery Co. , which has agreed to sell its assets to Coors . 
Both Coors and Stroh have recently been ceding market share to Miller and Anheuser . 
Stocks rose in London , but fell again in Frankfurt . 
Volume on the first section was estimated at 1 billion shares , up from 914 million Tuesday . 
A trader said that the more an issue gained recently , the sharper the loss sustained Wednesday . 
NTT lost 30,000 yen to 1,380,000 yen -LRB- $ 9,756 -RRB- . 
Toyota Motor fell 40 to 2,680 . 
Pioneer was down 90 at 5,810 , and Sony lost 40 to 8,550 , down 10 % from its record set Oct. 11 . 
The 30-share index ended 12.6 points higher at 1751.9 . 
Hanson , with 15 million shares traded , closed 2.5 lower at 212.5 . 
It was further helped by Ford , which announced after London 's close that it had raised its stake to 12 % from just under 11 % on Tuesday . 
The German stock index tumbled 26.29 to end at 
`` There was little turnover and nothing to stimulate the market . '' 
For the 1990 wage negotiations , the IG Metall is demanding a further cut in the German workweek and steep wage increases , which could sharply increase the costs for German industry . 
Other banks were slightly more resilient , with Dresdner Bank shedding 4.8 to 320 , and Commerzbank slipping 2.5 to 
Share prices closed lower in Paris , Zurich , Brussels , Milan and Stockholm , and mixed in Amsterdam . 
Trading in Taipei was suspended for a national holiday . 
The percentage change is since year-end . 
The remainder is held by the public and by family interests , a spokeswoman for the French group said . 
It continues to gain strength in the chamber but remains far short of the two-thirds majority required to prevail over Mr. Bush . 
To gain more leverage , abortion-rights advocates may seek to fold the bill into an omnibus continuing resolution next month . 
`` Unless he changes , they lose , '' said a Democratic leadership aide . 
By a lopsided 97-1 margin , the Senate approved the measure after attaching further provisions sought by the influential California delegation and , despite reservations , the House adopted the bill on a 303-107 roll call . 
In direct cash assistance , $ 1 billion is provided in federal highway construction funds , and $ 1.35 billion is divided between general emergency aid and a reserve to be available to the president to meet unanticipated costs from the two disasters . 
The emergency assistance would n't be counted against a state 's normal allocation of annual highway funds , and the bill circumvents existing restrictions that otherwise would prevent the use of federal aid to repair a toll road , such as the San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge damaged in last week 's earthquake . 
The standoff over abortion is certain to contribute to further delays and , apart from the health and education measure vetoed by Mr. Bush , bills funding the District of Columbia and the entire U.S. foreign-aid budget are in jeopardy because of related abortion or family-planning issues . 
The 189 Democrats who supported the override yesterday compare with 175 who initially backed the rape-and-incest exemption two weeks ago and 136 last year on a similar vote . By comparison , Republicans have held closer to the anti-abortion movement . Only 42 GOP members opposed the president 's veto , a marginal increase over the vote two weeks ago and just 12 more than the 30 who supported the rape-and-incest exemption last year . 
Only 42 GOP members opposed the president 's veto , a marginal increase over the vote two weeks ago and just 12 more than the 30 who supported the rape-and-incest exemption last year . 
New Jersey gubernatorial candidate Rep. James Florio pointedly returned from campaigning to vote against the president yesterday in contrast with his opponent , GOP Rep. James Courter , who has ardently supported abortion restrictions in the past but was absent . 
Rep. Les AuCoin was as blunt on behalf of the abortion-rights movement . 
`` This may not make George Bush a one-term president , '' said the Oregon liberal , addressing the Republican side of the House . `` But if you support him over rape victims , this may be your last term . '' 
The current ceiling on home loans insured by the Federal Housing Administration would be increased to $ 124,875 , and the bill gives the Department of Housing and Urban Development new authority to facilitate the refinancing of subsidized loans for low-income homeowners . 
The film producer , owned by Madrid-based financier Jacques Hachuel , received a 5 % stake in the Barcelona-based publishing group . 
Following its failure last month to win a license for one of Spain 's first three private television stations , Zeta is seeking investment opportunities in communications and publishing . 
The 400-member Alliance of Floor Brokers said the new product , with the $ 5 million minimum , will benefit only big institutional investors and could lead to `` wild spasms of volatility . '' 
The new stock baskets `` are going to make it easier for program trading to be done . 
The Big Board lists its targets as pension plans , mutual fund managers and index-arbitrage traders . 
The market makers so far are CS First Boston Group 's First Boston Corp. unit , Morgan Stanley & Co. , PaineWebber Group Inc. and Salomon Inc. 's Salomon Brothers Inc. unit . 
Big Board officials say only 25 contracts a day may trade at first , equivalent to a day 's action at a small , regional exchange . 
`` If we had the baskets , we would be leaving in caskets , '' one trader said . 
In the year-earlier quarter , Comprehensive Care earned $ 1.6 million , or 18 cents a share . 
As reported last month , Mr. Kass said he was interested in making an offer to buy H.H. Robertson for $ 13 a share . 
Under the terms of the settlement , the limited partners would drop their civil suits against Drexel , now pending in federal court in New York , another individual said . 
One individual said the shareholders ' accord was `` well worked out . '' 
Some claim they suffered losses because they sold while he was buying and others because they bought while he was selling . 
There are no agreements yet . '' 
The FBI had said it would not be able to begin processing the request until June 
He turned himself in to authorities in New York earlier this year . 
He maintains that the information from the FBI will help him get his 1968 conviction vacated and his bail-jumping indictment dismissed . 
His attorneys claim he was framed by the FBI and New York police as part of a campaign to destroy the black liberation movement of the 1960s . 
Complex cases , such as antitrust suits and many business disputes , would receive intense supervision by federal judges to keep pretrial proceedings moving . Standard cases would require less judicial attention , and fast-track cases could be resolved quickly . 
Standard cases would require less judicial attention , and fast-track cases could be resolved quickly . 
It included lawyers from civil rights and consumer groups , plaintiffs ' lawyers and defense attorneys , corporate counsel and law professors . 
Terms were n't disclosed . 
Data Systems has five retail stores in the northeast , but specializes in selling personal computers made by International Business Machines Corp. and Apple Computer Inc. to banks , brokerage firms and other big businesses based in the New York metropolitan area . 
Kenneth M. Evans , president of Thompson & Formby brand , was named group vice president of the do-it-yourself operating group . 
Operating revenue surged 54 % in the latest period to $ 42.9 million from $ 27.7 million . 
Widely expected to open 10 to 15 cents a barrel higher on the strength of statistics from the American Petroleum Institute , the December contract managed to start the session only eight cents higher . 
That storm hit the Gulf Coast Oct. 13 , closing the Louisiana Offshore Oil Port for a time and preventing tankers from unloading . 
Next week 's report could very well show an increase in crude inventories . 
An AP-Dow Jones survey of integrated oil companies , independent refiners , and oil industry consultants indicates that the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries increased its production to 22.2 million barrels a day in September . 
Estimates suggest October 's figure may be even higher . 
`` We are n't seeing any cold weather here , '' Mr. Bolling said from New York . 
Neither Mr. Dennis nor officials of his Chicago trading company , C&D Commodities , could be reached for comment . 
Soybean futures for November delivery gained 5.25 cents a bushel to close at $ 5.66 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade . December corn futures added 2.25 cents a bushel to close at $ 2.4225 a bushel on the Board of Trade . 
December corn futures added 2.25 cents a bushel to close at $ 2.4225 a bushel on the Board of Trade . 
`` Russian ships are arriving in the gulf and there is n't enough grain in the pipeline , '' said Katharina Zimmer , a futures analyst with Merrill Lynch & Co. in New York . 
The Soviet Union has purchased roughly eight million tons of grain this month , and is expected to take delivery by year end , analysts said . 
The December contract settled at 73.97 cents a pound , up 0.59 cent , but it rose as high as 74.20 cents . 
Traders who had sold contracts earlier , in hopes of buying them back at lower prices , yesterday were buying contracts back at higher prices to limit their losses . 
Floor traders also said that the market could have been helped by rumors , which have been circulating for the past two days , about China purchasing cotton . 
Another said that if China was a buyer , it would be the earliest that country had made purchases since the 1979-80 crop year , and thus would be a bullish sign . 
This trader characterized the recent price action as a contest between the fundamentalists , who see higher prices ahead , and the technicians , who are basically buying cotton toward the bottom of the current trading range , around 71 cents , and selling it when the price climbs more than 74 cents . 
This trader said that he thought the market would turn aggressively bullish from a technical standpoint if the December contract was able to exceed 75.75 cents . 
The December contract ended at $ 999 a metric ton , down $ 15 . 
Harry Schwartz , a soft commodity specialist for Cargill Investors Services in New York , said the only report Ghana has issued about the arrival of cocoa from the interior was for 7,839 metric tons as of Oct. 12 . By this time last year , he noted , arrivals totaling 33,270 tons had been announced . A similar situation apparently exists in the Ivory Coast with no figures released yet this year , compared with 55,000 tons as of this time a year ago . 
By this time last year , he noted , arrivals totaling 33,270 tons had been announced . 
He said that if little cocoa actually has arrived at the ports , shipping delays could result . 
Cargill thinks that even though the merchant has a contract stating that it wo n't bring this cocoa to market until after March 1991 , there is some evidence the contract has been modified . 
This modification , apparently , would permit the French merchant to deliver this cocoa , if necessary , against existing short positions . 
Joseph W. Robertson , 61 , was dismissed from those posts , the company said . 
Yesterday , American Medical said that the two other parties told the company that they do n't have any current intention of making a takeover bid . 
A final opinion must be approved prior to the acceptance of tendered shares for payment under the offer , which was due to expire at 12:01 a.m. EDT today . 
The downgrade anticipates completion of the IMA Holdings acquisition today , Moody 's said . 
Moody 's said the ratings anticipate a successful debt-reduction program and modest improvement in discretionary cash flow because of planned asset sales . 
Gerald E. Wilson , corporate secretary and legal counsel , said the company would n't disclose further details . 
He declined to name the shareholder , the plaintiff 's lawyer or the court where the lawsuit was filed . 
It has said it might seek bankruptcy-court protection from creditor lawsuits if it ca n't renegotiate its borrowings . 
The West German paper company entered the venture in April 1988 by acquiring a 50 % stake , also from Beghin-Say . 
The unit said it can provide no assurance a transaction will occur . 
Sales rose 2.9 % to $ 329.2 million from $ 320 million . 
Although conferees are still putting the finishing touches on the package , the final agreement could be announced as early as tomorrow . 
Despite the widening gap between the two sides , conferees eventually followed the pattern set in previous years by opting to roughly split the difference . 
That would hold spending on the program at about the previous year 's level . 
As the head of the House conferees , Rep. Aspin has been under intense pressure from his colleagues to reject Senate provisions that would have abruptly cut further F-14 production . 
The final B-2 agreement is certain to require detailed testing and verification of the bomber 's capabilities , but congressional aides said the accord wo n't include a House-passed provision that would have withheld production funds until Congress approves a cheaper , scaled-down version of the $ 70 billion fleet of 132 B-2s envisioned by the Pentagon . 
Revenue totaled $ 1.01 billion , a 43 % increase from $ 704.4 million , reflecting the company 's acquisition of Emery earlier this year . 
`` They have to continue to tighten their belts , '' said Craig Kloner , an analyst at Goldman , Sachs & Co . 
The lower boundary was established just after the opening in a brief round of selling ; the upper boundary was set at midday as scattered bargain-hunting pushed prices higher . 
; the upper boundary was set at midday as scattered bargain-hunting pushed prices higher . 
Our phones are quiet around here , '' said Don R. Hays , director of investment strategy at Wheat First Butcher & Singer Inc. , Richmond , Va . 
The consensus of economists polled by Dow Jones Capital Markets Report calls for a 2.5 % annual growth rate for GNP during the quarter . 
Its GM Hughes Electronics and financial-services units both reported that third-quarter earnings were down from a year earlier . 
Its third-quarter earnings were lower than analysts had forecast , and the company said it had lowered its projections for earnings growth through the end of 1990 because of planned price cuts . 
Disappointment with the company 's earnings for the quarter led Prudential-Bache Securities to reduce its 1989 and 1990 earnings estimates , according to Dow Jones Professional Investor Report . 
The stock fell 3\/4 to 12 7\/8 as 3.6 million shares were traded in the wake of its report that fiscal second-quarter net income fell 66 % from a year ago . 
Aetna Life & Casualty gained 1 3\/8 to 61 1\/8 , Cigna advanced 7\/8 to 64 3\/4 , Travelers added 1\/2 to 40 3\/8 and American International Group rose 3 1\/8 to 107 3\/4 . 
The company reported a third-quarter loss and said it is holding talks with its bank lenders for an extension on some overdue debt payments . 
Coniston said it would pursue `` various financing alternatives . '' 
AMR , which owns American Airlines , rose 3 3\/8 to 72 1\/4 ; USAir Group fell 1 1\/2 to 38 5\/8 , and Delta Air Lines rose 1\/2 to 66 1\/2 after posting higher earnings for the September quarter . 
; USAir Group fell 1 1\/2 to 38 5\/8 , and Delta Air Lines rose 1\/2 to 66 1\/2 after posting higher earnings for the September quarter . 
Procter & Gamble went down 3 1\/2 to 130 , Dow Jones fell 3 1\/2 to 37 1\/2 and Rockwell International dropped 2 1\/8 to 25 . 
Goldman Sachs placed the stock back on its list of recommended issues , raised its 1990 earnings estimate and recommended that its clients shift funds from Kellogg to General Mills . 
Kellogg dropped 1 3\/4 to 73 1\/4 . 
The company offered to purchase $ 500 million of convertible preferred stock from the trust that handles its payments to asbestos victims . 
Investor Arthur Goldberg is pursuing a $ 32-a-share takeover offer . 
Esselte AB of Sweden offered $ 43.50 a share for the 22 % of the company it does n't already own . 
Northeast Utilities boosted its offer to acquire the company by $ 400 million , to $ 2.25 billion . 
Volume totaled 8,930,000 shares . 
The partnership , which had solicited takeover offers , said it failed to receive any adequate bids for all of its operations but is reviewing offers for individual properties . 
: It is increasing capital spending -- by 60 % . 
It is building , among other things , a new laser-beam-printer factory in western Japan that can produce up to 150,000 printers next year . 
Some 70 % of them are to be exported to the U.S. . 
Japan 's steelmakers are raising capital spending 22 % this year to $ 4.8 billion . 
Hitachi Zosen Corp. , a shipbuilder buried in debt just a few years ago , will build a machinery plant , its first expansion in 14 years . 
Many Japanese companies expect record profits this fiscal year , and Japanese interest rates , though up a bit recently , are still low . 
They fear that the boom may be too big for Japan 's or anyone else 's good . 
`` It 's an explosive cocktail '' thrown at the world , says Kenneth Courtis , senior economist at the Tokyo unit of Deutsche Bank Group . 
The Ministry of International Trade and Industry is so concerned that it recently took the unusual step of urging Japanese auto companies to exercise caution in capital spending . 
MITI officials hope to avoid yet-another source of trade friction with the U.S. even though export restraints currently limit Japanese car exports to the U.S. . 
Some economists -- and many Japanese companies -- are puzzled by the warnings . 
The investment boom is mainly sparked , they say , by strong domestic demand and is n't likely to increase exports sharply . 
According to a survey of some 2,400 large companies by the Japan Development Bank , expanded capacity is the goal of just 51.8 % of the outlays ; for manufacturers alone , the figure is 32 % . 
; for manufacturers alone , the figure is 32 % . 
The manufacturers said 14.2 % of their spending is designed to improve products or add new ones , 17.5 % is to cut costs , 12.5 % is for research and development , and the rest is for maintenance and other purposes . 
With Japan running enormous trade surpluses against much of the world , they think that Japan should meet the increased domestic demand by importing more . 
`` If there 's a further drive to export , '' says Nobuyuki Arai , an economist at the Japan Development Bank , `` that 'll be a problem . '' 
U.S. ; the additional production should , in part , replace imported vehicles with locally manufactured ones . 
Many are pouring money into developing high-quality products to target affluent consumers and , to some extent , to avoid direct combat with cheaper cars from South Korea and Taiwan . 
Others are replacing older facilities with flexible assembly lines on which different models can be turned out at once . 
So many companies are investing in high-tech machinery that Fanuc Ltd. , a robot maker , also had to build a new plant . 
Japan 's marathon economy , growing at 4.3 % this year , is now in its 35th month of expansion , and some economists are betting that the boom will outlast the record 57-month expansion in the late 1960s . 
Nissan Motor Co. 's domestic auto sales are up 20 % this year largely because its expensive Cima , Sylvia and Cefiro models are in heavy demand . 
He adds that the company is trying to keep up with demand `` by overworking '' its employees . 
Sasebo Heavy Industries Co. , a medium-sized shipbuilder , expects its sales to increase 30 % this year , largely because of rising demand for oil tankers . 
Because most businesses put market share above profitability , to let a competitor 's addition to capacity go unmatched is to concede defeat . 
Seeing new office buildings sprout up and its sales soar , Daikin is building another plant , which will lift its production capacity 50 % . The expansion is aimed not just at meeting demand but also at expanding the company 's market share to 30 % from 27 % currently . 
The expansion is aimed not just at meeting demand but also at expanding the company 's market share to 30 % from 27 % currently . 
`` Until now , we were trying to increase productivity with the facilities we already had . But we ca n't produce enough anymore . '' 
Nissan aims to expand its 25 % share of the market to 30 % by spending $ 141 million on a plant in southern Japan that could make as many as 240,000 cars a year . 
Mazda Motor Corp. is still considering its options , but it boldly aims to double its annual domestic sales to 800,000 cars in the next four years . 
Although imports account for less than 1 % of beer sales in Japan , Asahi Breweries Ltd. , which has been gaining share with its popular dry beer , plans to fend off Japanese competitors by pouring $ 1.06 billion into facilities to brew 50 % more beer . 
The product is n't widely used yet , but Toshiba , which has already beaten everyone else in producing the current-generation one-megabit DRAMs , believes that its early investment will heighten its chances of beating its competitors again . 
After doubling production in one plant , NEC is spending $ 275 million to build another plant that , in two years , will be able to make a million four-megabit DRAMs a year . 
The new chip plants `` wo n't be excessive investment , '' says Hajime Sasaki , an NEC vice president . 
`` We have enough products to make and the markets to sell these products . '' 
Toyota 's $ 35,000 Lexus automobile , a luxury model that it started shipping to the U.S. only last month , is racking up orders at a time when U.S.-made luxury-car sales are slow . 
Toyota plans to raise Lexus exports when a new plant starts up next year . 
If excess capacity develops , they say , not everyone will suffer . 
The losers will be those with the least attractive products , and many of them , analysts think , will be foreign companies . 
The plan may include selling branches , consolidating or eliminating departments , and winding down or disposing of unprofitable units within 18 months . 
Revenue rose 15 % to $ 534.3 million from $ 464.7 million . 
Jay Stevens , an analyst with Dean Witter Reynolds , said he expected the Sunnyvale , Calif. , company to earn 35 cents a share for the quarter and said the firm 's weaker profit was partly the result of increased competition from International Business Machines Corp. , Amdahl 's principal competitor for mainframe sales . 
The move will make the drug available free of charge for a time to children with the disease and symptoms of advanced infection . 
To date , 1,013 of those children have died , according to the federal Centers for Disease Control . 
It should have happened sooner , '' said Elizabeth Glaser , a Los Angeles mother and activist who contracted the AIDS virus through a blood transfusion , and transmitted it to two of her children . 
One of them , a daughter Ariel , died a year ago at age seven after her parents unsuccessfully pleaded for the drug . 
Her son , healthy and symptom-free , currently takes no medication . 
Traditionally , the medical establishment has waited two years to approve adult treatments for pediatric uses , because of a combination of conservative safety standards and red tape . 
Why has it taken people so long for people to understand pediatric AIDS is a major problem ? '' asked Helen Kushnick , whose son Samuel died six years ago at age three , victim of a tainted transfusion . 
`` Why did it take Burroughs Wellcome so long to apply '' for treatment investigational new drug status ? the New York Democrat asked . 
`` The crucial thing is that we learn our lesson well , and to make sure other experimental drugs , like Bristol-Myers Co. 's DDI , do n't follow the same frustrating course as AZT . '' 
For some patients , AZT has restored the ability to ride a bicycle or solve puzzles , giving back a piece of their childhood if only temporarily . 
About 1.1 million Class C warrants were issued , the company said . 
Each of the Class C warrants will enable the holders to purchase one share of common stock at $ 5.50 . 
The warrants may be exercised until 90 days after their issue date . 
Issuance of those warrants will be at the rate of one-third warrant for each warrant exercised . 
The new `` baskets '' of stocks will allow big investors to buy or sell all 500 S&P index stocks in a single trade . 
The exchange argues that the product , which the SEC temporarily approved yesterday , will help ease rather than worsen any volatility in the stock market . 
The trend is making proponents less optimistic a tax cut will pass . 
The Dow Jones industrials closed off 5.94 points , at 2653.28 . 
The finance unit , GMAC , said net fell 3.1 % , but EDS 's profit rose 16 % . 
Campeau declined to comment . 
Dow Jones industrials 2653.28 , off 5.94 ; transportation 1199.32 , off 11.38 ; utilities 216.49 , up 1.45 . 
The roll call was considered an illustration of the limits of power that the resurgent abortion-rights movement faces . 
Adults have had access to the only approved antiviral drug since 1987 . 
The ministers , concluding a two-day meeting in southern Portugal , welcomed Moscow 's pledges to cut its military forces , but urged the Soviets to do more to slash short-range nuclear weapons . 
A department spokesman said the ruling `` raised a serious question '' about the office of the president . 
The city 's mayor vowed to take legal action against developers who had been excavating at the crest of the hill . 
Ladislav Adamec , ending a two-day visit to Austria , pledged changes in Czechoslovakia , including freer travel to the West . 
`` Pete and Jeff and Joe Jr. have taken over the reins and are doing most of the work . 
We do n't think this will affect that . '' 
William Coors is their uncle . 
Jeffrey , Peter , Joseph Jr. , William and Joseph Sr. constitute the company 's board . 
Joseph Jr. runs Coors Ceramics Co. , the other operating unit , which had about $ 150 million in 1988 sales . 
The drop accelerated in this year 's third quarter , underscoring an overall lack of stress in the U.S. economy , the company said . 
The South Atlantic States were the only region to report an increase in bankruptcies , up 5.3 % to 5,791 from 5,502 . 
Campeau Corp. , the chain 's owner , declined to comment on the report . 
Nihon Keizai Shimbun , Japan 's leading economic newspaper , reported Wednesday that Tokyu Department Store Co. is planning to team up with U.S. and Western European financing to buy the New York-based retail chain , which Campeau has put up for sale . 
The service did n't identify its Tokyu sources . 
`` We wo n't comment on them . '' 
`` Tokyu is one of the potential buyers who might raise its hand . 
Bloomingdale 's does an estimated $ 1.2 billion in annual sales . 
The suit accuses the retailer and several of its officers of making false and misleading statements about the company 's business affairs . 
The suit says the company failed to disclose material adverse information about its financial condition . 
McCaw 's offer is scheduled to expire tomorrow . 
The banks jointly committed $ 1.2 billion of financing , subject to certain conditions , McCaw said . 
He added that `` hopefully LIN will conduct a fair auction . '' 
Mesa President Larry Risley said his board had received Stateswest 's most recent offer and was reviewing it . 
Revenue rose to $ 372.1 million from $ 336.4 million . 
A spokeswoman said the apparel market troughed in the first half of 1988 , then began showing improvement in the second half of last year . 
`` We 've seen continued improvement in 1989 , '' she said . 
Unlike the quarter 's results , which were based on roughly equal shares outstanding , nine-month per-share figures reflect an increase in average common shares outstanding to 51.9 million from 47 million . 
Nine-month revenue was $ 1.02 billion , up 22 % from $ 841.5 million . 
Apparently they are learning to say no to excess risk . 
What was n't mentioned is that Coniston and its investment banker , Donaldson , Lufkin & Jenrette , just completed a two-week `` road show '' for the purpose of marketing the bonds . 
Its fast-food restaurants -- including Denny 's , Hardee 's , Quincy 's and El Pollo Loco -LRB- `` the only significant fast-food chain to specialize in char-broiled chicken '' -RRB- -- are stable , recession-resistant and growing . 
`` Investors , '' he adds , `` are getting religion . '' 
`` There is nothing wrong with the company , '' says Coniston principal Paul Tierney . 
The rub , he says , is that `` the junk market is n't as deep '' as before . 
Banks may contribute more senior debt . 
People said they did n't think a billion-dollar deal would trade . '' 
TW notes , as many junk issuers do , that `` adjusted to eliminate non-cash charges '' TW would have run a cash surplus -- in this case , of $ 56 million over six months . 
The fast-food business is `` intensely competitive , '' notes Wertheim Schroder analyst John Rohs . 
Prospective bond buyers noted that TW historically has prospered because it has been willing to spend aggressively on remodeling restaurants and redoing menus . 
DLJ argues that TW could , if necessary , cut capital spending , since half of what it plans to spend is for `` growth , '' rather than maintenance . 
Its calculations for meeting cash charges ignore $ 52 million a year in interest on cash-deferred , or zero-coupon debentures -- which ultimately would have had to be paid . 
In the recent past , bond buyers did n't seek such assurance . 
Now , apparently , they do . 
; her political enemies are screaming louder than ever . 
`` She can no longer be trusted to behave in a civilised -- that is unflaky -- fashion when abroad . '' 
The London Times said she had `` contravened protocol . '' 
She issued a separate statement , separating herself from a Commonwealth document reasserting the political value of imposing sanctions against South Africa . 
While supporting the Commonwealth `` in utterly condemning apartheid , '' her statement urged it to `` encourage change '' rather than inflict further punishment on the country 's black population . 
: In May a Gallup Poll found that most South African blacks , 85 % , oppose economic sanctions . 
Malaysia 's Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad sniffed , `` If everybody else puts out their left foot and you put out your right foot , you are out of step . '' 
Mrs. Thatcher : `` If it 's one against 48 , I 'm very sorry for the 48 . '' 
It is refreshing to see at least one world figure who knows what she believes in and is not inclined to reflexively compromise those beliefs . 
`` It should read , `` Have You Anything Left ? '' 
`` It was a mixed bag , '' said Richard Bruno , who heads over-the-counter trading at PaineWebber . 
`` We played catch-up in some areas , and sold off in some others . '' 
Of the 4,348 issues that changed hands , 1,074 advanced and 866 declined . 
The Nasdaq Financial Index rose 2.09 , to 454.86 . 
Lance Zipper , head of over-the-counter trading at Kidder Peabody , said it is difficult to make predictions based on yesterday 's trading volume . 
The advance felt more like a technical bounce , he said . 
`` If we get a decent rally -LCB- today -RCB- , maybe the buyers will come back . '' 
The president of Herzog , Heine , Mr. Geduld expects the market to be `` very choppy '' for a while . 
`` There 's a lot of uncertainty out there , and it will cause a lot of swings , '' he said . 
Apple Computer dropped 1 1\/8 to 46 1\/2 on one million shares . 
Almost one million shares of Sun Microsystems changed hands , but the issue was unchanged at 17 3\/4 . 
Amgen advanced 1 1\/2 to 56 ; Chiron jumped 2 to 29 3\/4 ; Cetus gained 1 to 16 7\/8 and Biogen rose 5\/8 to 14 5\/8 . 
; Chiron jumped 2 to 29 3\/4 ; Cetus gained 1 to 16 7\/8 and Biogen rose 5\/8 to 14 5\/8 . 
; Cetus gained 1 to 16 7\/8 and Biogen rose 5\/8 to 14 5\/8 . 
Ford Motor said it raised its stake in the British car maker to 12.45 % of the ordinary shares outstanding . 
The company has said it is prepared to make a bid for all of the shares outstanding of Jaguar if British government restrictions to such a transaction are removed . 
Informix , which recently said third-quarter net income rose to 16 cents a share from a penny a share a year ago , gained 1 5\/8 to 13 5\/8 on 810,700 shares . 
The maker of software products and services , which had a net loss in the 1988 third quarter , earned 200,000 , or a penny a share , in this year 's quarter . 
The company suffered a $ 9 million loss in the third quarter , compared with net of $ 2.5 million a year earlier . 
In its fiscal-first quarter ended Sept. 30 , the biomedical-products maker earned 10 cents a share , up from eight cents a share in the 1988 quarter , which included an extraordinary credit . 
Mr. Frank told Mr. Pilson that Olympics officials wanted $ 290 million or more for TV rights to the 1994 Winter Games in Norway . 
The CBS official said that price sounded fine . 
Dick Pound , a committee member , began by disclosing that ABC and NBC had refused to even bid . 
Mr. Pound responded , `` It 's a deal . '' 
A beaming Mr. Pilson announced his lastest coup at a news conference that afternoon . 
How could CBS get pushed into outbidding itself ? 
CBS itself could run up losses of a few hundred million dollars on four years of various sports if its big gamble goes wrong . 
Advertisers already are balking at higher prices . 
`` The networks are paying too much for rights , '' warns adman Paul Isacsson of Young & Rubicam . 
`` If they ask advertisers to absorb the costs , they 're likely to lose all but a few who need sports , above all . '' 
Soaring rights fees will lead to an even greater clutter of commercials . 
The billion-dollar question is , How much are those benefits worth ? 
`` As we 've seen in the '80s , '' says Roger Werner , the president of the ESPN sports channel , `` those deals can turn sour if the numbers do n't work . 
And they 've bought one . '' `` They lost the entertainment crown , and they needed one . 
That 's well over half a billion dollars more than ABC and NBC were willing to pay . 
Next month , talks will begin on two coveted CBS contracts , for the pro and college basketball finals . CBS is likely to spend whatever it takes to keep them . The potential bill : more than $ 600 million for several seasons , an 80 % jump . 
CBS is likely to spend whatever it takes to keep them . 
The potential bill : more than $ 600 million for several seasons , an 80 % jump . 
A few months later , CBS 's college and pro football contracts come up for renewal ; they could go for close to $ 100 million more than CBS now pays , a 40 % to 50 % rise . 
; they could go for close to $ 100 million more than CBS now pays , a 40 % to 50 % rise . 
J. William Grimes , former president of ESPN , says NBC may `` come in with a huge bid for college basketball to take it away from CBS and say , ` We can overbid , too . ' 
In the mid-1980s , after ABC had just bid a record $ 309 million for the 1988 Winter Games , he sniped at rivals for paying reckless prices . 
Rivals carp at `` the principle of Pilson , '' as NBC 's Arthur Watson once put it -- `` he 's always expounding that rights are too high , then he 's going crazy . '' 
A Yale law school graduate , he began his career in corporate law and then put in years at Metromedia Inc. and the William Morris talent agency . In 1976 , he joined CBS Sports to head business affairs and , five years later , became its president . 
In 1976 , he joined CBS Sports to head business affairs and , five years later , became its president . 
The market changed , he adds . 
: NBC will pay a record $ 401 million for the 1992 Summer Games , and ESPN , 80%-owned by Capital Cities\/ABC , will shell out $ 400 million for four years of baseball , airing 175 regular-season games a year . 
Who cares ? 
Mr. Pilson gave him one : He bid $ 243 million for rights to the 1992 Winter Games in Albertville , France ; ABC and NBC would n't bid even $ 200 million . Mr. Pilson recalls that in April 1986 , after CBS 's annual meeting in Philadelphia , he and Mr. Tisch took the 90-minute train ride back to New York , and Mr. Pilson used this extended private audience to outline his ambitions . Mr. Tisch , a billionaire in hotels and finance , was just learning the TV business . Five months later , Mr. Tisch took over as CBS 's chief executive , and soon he was wielding sole approval each time Mr. Pilson scribbled a frighteningly large figure on a slip of paper , sealed it in an envelope and gave it to sports negotiators . Then , in May 1988 , Mr. Tisch urgently needed to make a bold statement to quell rumors that he might sell the network . 
Mr. Pilson gave him one : He bid $ 243 million for rights to the 1992 Winter Games in Albertville , France ; ABC and NBC would n't bid even $ 200 million . 
: He bid $ 243 million for rights to the 1992 Winter Games in Albertville , France ; ABC and NBC would n't bid even $ 200 million . 
; ABC and NBC would n't bid even $ 200 million . 
He sees flashy sports as the only way the last-place network can cut through the clutter of cable and VCRs , grab millions of new viewers and tell them about other shows premiering a few weeks later . 
Even if baseball triggers losses at CBS -- and he does n't think it will -- `` I 'd rather see the games on our air than on NBC and ABC , '' he says . 
Regular TV series ratings have slumped in the past five years , and premiering new shows is `` a crap shoot , '' Mr. Pilson says . 
They gleefully await the `` dream season '' in 1990 . 
CBS will air the Super Bowl , baseball playoffs , college and pro basketball finals and other premier sports events . 
`` It 's made me more committed to CBS , '' says Philip A. Jones , the president of Meredith Corp. 's broadcast group , which has two CBS affiliates . 
No amount of hype will bring viewers back if the shows are weak . 
`` In this market of 40 channels , sophisticated viewers and the remote control , trial is n't a guarantee of anything , '' ESPN 's Mr. Werner says . `` If the show ai n't a killer , they 're gone . '' 
`` If the show ai n't a killer , they 're gone . '' 
Last October , during the 1988 Summer Games , NBC relentlessly pitched a new series , `` Tattingers . '' It belly-flopped anyway . 
It belly-flopped anyway . 
Though CBS might move up to No. 2 in household ratings , most advertisers buy based on ratings for women aged 18 to 49 . 
In recent years , the World Series and the Olympics were aired against CBS 's last-place lineup . But CBS will put the athletes up against Bill Cosby , `` Cheers '' and other shows in NBC 's No. 1 schedule . 
The sports lineup may add only 1 % to 5 % to a station 's annual profits . 
It alone is n't likely to stop a station from dumping CBS shows . 
`` The World Series , seven nights , was n't enough of an incentive , '' says Arnold Klinsky of WHEC-TV in Rochester , which dropped CBS for NBC six weeks ago . 
`` You 've got to judge where the network will be in three years . '' 
On the $ 1.06 billion baseball agreement alone , CBS is likely to lose $ 250 million in four years , contends Mr. Wussler , the former CBS man , now at Comsat Inc . 
`` It 's too early to tell '' what happens after that , he says . 
If the playoffs end in four-game sweeps , losses could soar . 
CBS signed General Motors and Toyota to be the only auto-maker sponsors in baseball for four years . Price : $ 265 million . But ad executives who negotiated the deal say that works out to only $ 275,000 for a 30-second ad in the World Series through 1993 -- 17 % less than what ABC is charging for the Series this month . 
CBS expects to make modest profits , but rivals contend that it will take a beating . 
ABC lost $ 75 million on the 1988 Winter Games , partly because of its $ 309 million rights fee . 
It aired 94.5 hours of mostly live events in Calgary -- helping raise ratings slightly from 1984 -- but still failed to deliver the audience promised to advertisers . 
All prime-time fare will be on tape-delay because of time differences with Norway , so the results can be announced on the 6 o'clock news . 
-LRB- Turner Broadcasting will pay CBS $ 25 million to air 50 hours of CBS coverage plus 50 hours of additional events . -RRB- 
`` Ten million ai n't jack , man , when you got $ 3 billion sitting in the bank , '' says Mr. Frank , senior vice president at International Management Group , citing CBS 's enormous cash reserves from selling off various businesses . 
`` It does n't mean anything -- it 's public-relations money . '' 
`` This is n't outlandish bidding ; this is a situation of very careful businessmen making judgments about the worth of product and acting on it ... . 
; this is a situation of very careful businessmen making judgments about the worth of product and acting on it ... . 
I would tend to trust their judgment . '' 
: CBS 's four-year NBA pact , now at $ 176 million for four years , could double in price by the time his talks with Mr. Pilson are completed later this month . 
; ABC and NBC charge 30 % to 35 % more for ads , according to a Variety survey . 
Although sports officials predict jumps of 50 % to 100 % in the major contracts coming up for renewal , ad rates may rise only 20 % . 
CBS hopes to save money by ordering fewer episodes of regular series because sports will fill up a few weeks of prime time . 
Each hour of Olympics and baseball in prime time will cost CBS $ 2.6 million to $ 2.8 million ; an hour-long drama costs only $ 900,000 , and it is aired twice . 
; an hour-long drama costs only $ 900,000 , and it is aired twice . 
`` On a stand-alone basis , the network ought to make money , '' he says . 
`` What you 're really asking is , Are the profit and loss margins anticipated on the events acceptable to management ? '' he says . 
That 's the only question we need to address . 
Bosses have big ears these days . 
Some would make even James Bond green with envy . 
`` Our expectation of confidentiality is being eroded . '' 
The practice is common at catalog , insurance and phone companies , banks and telemarketers , according to trade groups and worker organizations . 
Among companies saying they monitor employees are United Airlines , American Airlines , United Parcel Service , Nynex Corp. , Spiegel Inc. , and the circulation department of this newspaper . 
Some Wall Street firms monitor for recordkeeping purposes . 
The state of Alaska recently bought the Veritrac system , he says , `` to monitor the Exxon cleanup effort . '' 
Shearson says it has taped some of its institutional trading desks , such as commodities and futures , for about four years . 
That and other fancy gizmos may cost thousands , but simple voice-activated tape recorders sell for as little as $ 70 at electronics stores like Radio Shack . 
While tape recordings to uncover , say , infidelity are n't admissible in court , they can mean leverage in a settlement . 
Nine states have introduced bills requiring that workers and customers be made aware of monitoring . 
In May , Rep. Don Edwards -LRB- D. Calif . -RRB- introduced congressional legislation that would require an audible beeping during any employee monitoring , warning people that they are being heard . 
The ACLU and worker organizations back tighter laws , but employers and device manufacturers object . 
Laura Dale , center manager at the catalog company 's customer order center in Reno , Nev. , defends monitoring . 
`` We like to follow up and make sure operators are achieving our standards of company service , '' says Ms. Dale , who supervises 350 operators . 
`` Sometimes , '' he says , `` we 'll pull someone off the phones for more training . '' 
The CWA claims that monitoring not only infringes on employee privacy , but increases stress . 
Currently , if the person taping is a party to the conversation , it 's all right to record without the knowledge of the other person on the line . -LRB- Intercepting other people 's private conversations is illegal and punishable by five years in prison and fines of $ 10,000 . -RRB- 
-LRB- Intercepting other people 's private conversations is illegal and punishable by five years in prison and fines of $ 10,000 . -RRB- 
Some marketers of surveillance gear -- including Communication Control System Ltd. , which owns the Counter Spy Shop and others like it -- already put warning labels in their catalogs informing customers of the one-party law . 
`` Everything sold at Radio Shack has a legal purpose , '' says Bernard Appel , president of the Tandy Corp. subsidiary . 
He says he has n't yet studied the Dellums bill , but that requiring a beeping tone on recorders `` would be ludicrous . '' 
With its ability to pick up rustlings and flapping wings , `` it was meant to be a toy for children for bird watching , '' says Mr. Appel . 
`` This is not your father 's mainframe , '' said Allan McGuire , a Digital spokesman . `` It 's a whole new generation , '' he said . 
`` It 's a whole new generation , '' he said . 
Prices on the larger models , which range as high as $ 13 million , generally wo n't change . 
Small models , whose performance increased as much as 46 % , will carry higher prices . 
The first models will ship in the spring , with the largest following in the fall . 
Jay Stevens of Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. said he may cut his earnings estimate for the current fiscal year because he had expected at least some mainframe profit this year . 
IBM shares closed at $ 103 , down 50 cents , in Big Board trading . 
Large Digital buyers say the new VAX will let them stay with Digital when they need the power of a mainframe , instead of turning to IBM . 
`` I 'm convinced there 's a huge market for this machine , '' said Stephen Smith of PaineWebber Inc . 
Although Digital has staked out a major presence in the booming workstation market , profit margins in that market are much slimmer than for mainframes . 
IBM 's mainframe sales have held up better than expected this year , with analysts estimating they have risen 10 % to 12 % . 
`` We have a good strong backlog for the fourth quarter even without '' the systems that were announced yesterday . 
The fourth quarter is always IBM 's biggest by far , with most sales coming in December as customers seek to use budgets before year end . 
Some analysts have estimated IBM 's fourth-quarter per-share earnings will fall 10 % to $ 3.57 a share from $ 3.97 a share a year earlier . 
That should help IBM address the damage that a resurgent Storage Technology Corp. has inflicted in that market . 
Terms were n't disclosed . 
`` If that does n't happen , then we press forward on another vehicle and a separate vote , '' said press secretary Marlin Fitzwater . 
Texas Rep. William Archer , the ranking Republican on the House Ways and Means Committee said , `` I do n't see how we have the votes '' to place a capital-gains tax cut there . 
The White House said he plans to hold a series of private White House meetings , mostly with Senate Democrats , to try to persuade lawmakers to fall in line behind the tax cut . 
This cuts down greatly on labor , Mr. Buchner said . 
It noted that last July , Nippon Telegraph & Telephone Corp. of Japan selected AT&T to supply $ 154 million of such equipment over a four-year period starting next year . 
Much of this work was done for higher fees than other legal work and was not generally billed by the hour . 
If deals take longer to complete and there are fewer of them to do , `` you ca n't bill the same kind of premium as when deals took a few weeks from start to finish , '' says one lawyer at a large New York firm . 
`` We 're settling down to a less active period . '' 
`` Everyone is waiting to see if deals can be done at sensible prices and if money is available , '' said Jack Nusbaum , co-chairman of Willkie Farr . 
`` It 's hard to know right now if the change is fundamental or cyclical . '' 
Dennis Block , a partner at the New York firm of Weil , Gotshal & Manges , said that in the first eight months of this year , 89 hostile offers were launched , compared with 157 for the first eight months of 
`` We just took another floor for our London offices , '' said Joseph Flom of the New York firm of Skadden , Arps , Slate , Meagher & Flom . 
`` European companies are looking to buy American ones , '' said Henry King , the managing partner at that firm . 
In his opening arguments last week in federal court in New York , Mr. Lang told the jury that Mr. Lorin was the `` real master criminal '' behind the stock manipulation , and that Mr. Laff knew nothing about it . 
The government has charged that Mr. Lorin and Mr. Laff were part of a conspiracy to maintain the prices of certain stocks at artificially high prices . 
When asked for a copy of the transcript , Mr. Lang said Judge Thomas P. Griesa had instructed him not to release it or the memorandum . 
Mr. Lorin responded , `` No . '' 
When Mr. Lang asked Mr. Lorin whether he had taken steps to have Mr. Laff killed , the witness again said no . 
John Ake , 48 , a former vice-president in charge of legal compliance at American Capital Management & Research Inc. , in Houston , will join Ballard Spahr 's corporate-securities practice . 
Kent Walker , 45 , a former partner at the Philadelphia law firm of Mesirov , Gelman , Jaffe , Cramer & Jamieson , will specialize in antitrust , real estate and mergers and acquisitions . 
Richard L. Sherman , 42 , will advise midsized businesses . 
Mr. Ehrlich will continue as a director and a consultant . 
Ben Lipps , president of Fresenius USA , was named president , chief executive and chief operating officer . 
The two companies have been discussing a transaction under which Fresenius would buy Delmed stock for cash to bring its beneficial ownership to between 70 % and 80 % of Delmed 's fully diluted common stock . 
It added that it is apparent that any terms of a combination `` would be substantially less favorable than those previously announced . '' 
J&L , whose principal offices are in Detroit , is a mail-order distributer of industrial tools and supplies . 
Net product sales accounted for $ 76 million , up from $ 57.5 million a year earlier . 
Genentech stock fell 12.5 cents in trading yesterday on the New York Stock Exchange to $ 20.125 . 
Revenues climbed 18 % to $ 289 million from $ 245.3 million . 
Expenses are flat and that 's a good sign . 
There 's contract revenue from -LCB- limited research and development -RCB- partnerships . 
`` The company 's stock is trading at 40 times next year 's numbers , and that 's too much , '' she said . 
A chart in last Friday 's special report on personal finance contained an incorrect figure supplied by NonProfit Times , a monthly newspaper covering charities . 
Revenue was flat at $ 1.3 billion . 
`` It pretty much confirms what we had been expecting , '' said Anthony Hatch , an analyst at PaineWebber Inc . 
He said the fourth quarter will be `` challenging , '' and maintained his conservative forecast that 1990 `` wo n't be a barn burner . '' 
Revenue rose slightly to $ 3.8 billion from $ 3.7 billion . 
Mr. Hixson , who resigned effective Jan. 1 for health reasons , remains a director . 
The company has promptly paid all its expenses and obligations since March 16 , a Maxicare spokesman said . 
Maxicare 's public shareholders will receive 2 % of the new company 's stock and warrants entitling them to acquire as much as an additional 5 % of the stock on a fully-diluted basis . 
The spokesman said Maxicare hopes to complete the reorganization by early 1990 . 
Accepted bids ranged from 8.328 % to 8.347 % . 
Accepted bids were all at 7.962 % . 
Hartford expects to report a further pretax loss of about $ 30 million for the current quarter , as a result of the California earthquake this month , ITT added . 
Anticipating this settlement , the company recorded a pretax charge of $ 24 million during the fourth quarter of 1988 . 
An ITT spokesman said the charge was n't publicly reported at the time . 
The index was 178.5 in August and is based on 1980 equaling 100 . 
San Jose and several other California cities mounted major campaigns during the summer to woo the group , which was founded last June by seven electronics concerns . 
Mr. Kane said he expects several other companies to join some time after the venture completes a business plan , probably later this week . 
The board increased to 11 seats . 
It 's one of the most popular computer programs of all time , but analysts said the Quickview suit does n't appear to bode major difficulties for Apple . 
It said it filed an action of its own in federal court in San Jose , Calif. , seeking a declaration that Quickview 's claims are invalid . 
: It is n't the Americans who must be criticized for not understanding the Japanese culture , but the Japanese who insist on forcing their culture on Americans . 
The Japanese want us to accept their culture , but they refuse to accept the American culture . 
What is wrong with expecting the Japanese to conform to American norms when they locate here ? 
European multinationals do likewise ; even in America , their affiliates are usually run by American managers . 
European multinationals do likewise ; even in America , their affiliates are usually run by American managers . 
Do the Japanese feel so superior that they can not find capable American managers ? 
While Mr. Kageyama does an excellent job of explaining the differences , both cultural and philosophic , I question his perspective . 
The workers can be motivated , and the company reach its full potential , only when management embraces the employees ' perspective . 
Japanese culture vs. American culture is irrelevant . 
The key is how a manager from one culture can motivate employees from another . 
The Japanese are neglecting the opportunity to synthesize a new corporate culture based on a fusion of the best aspects of both national cultures . 
It is more difficult to deny a general bigotry in seeing things only the Japanese way . 
When the response to criticism is only a better explanation of policies without altering the reasons for the criticism , I am convinced that Mr. Kageyama has still failed to attack the root cause of the problem and is simply treating symptoms . 
Revenue climbed 13 % to 45.4 billion francs from 40.1 billion . 
What did he think of the Supreme Court 's decision legalizing abortion ? `` I happen to think it was right , '' Mr. Bush said flatly . 
Suddenly , George Bush the pro-choice advocate became George Bush the anti-abortionist . 
`` I do not support federal funding for abortions except where the mother 's life is threatened , '' he proclaimed , and finally vetoed the measure last weekend . 
The result is mistrust and criticism from all around . 
`` In all honesty if you ask me , ` Is this man a true believer ? ' I do n't know , '' says John Fowler , head of the Washington-based Ad Hoc Committee in Defense of Life Inc . 
Douglas Gould , vice president of communications for the Planned Parenthood Federation of America , calls Mr. Bush 's position on the abortion-funding issue `` extremely cruel , '' adding : `` The guy has n't done one thing about prevention . 
He 's totally geared to a punitive position . '' 
For most of the past nine years , he has striven to convince anti-abortion activists of his stalwart support for their position . 
Mr. Bush 's problem is n't so much that he seems to be agonizing over the issue as it is that he seems to vacillate on it . 
The political risk would be far less if the president drew a firm line and hewed to it , experts insist . 
`` If you have a position , you 're better off to stick with it than to move around very much , '' says Republican strategist John Sears . 
The need for consistency is especially acute for Mr. Bush , who , Mr. Sears maintains , lacks a strong ideological base . 
On many issues -- flag-burning , for instance -- his keen political sensitivities overcome such conflicts . 
Ten days ago he was asked to amplify the reasons behind his anti-abortion stance . `` My position is well-known and well-stated , '' he replied . 
`` My position is well-known and well-stated , '' he replied . 
In addition to supporting the landmark Roe vs. Wade Supreme Court decision legalizing abortion , Mr. Bush said he opposed the constitutional ban on abortion that Mr. Reagan was promising to promote . 
He acknowledged only one difference with Mr. Reagan -- that the amendment ought to have exceptions for rape and incest as well as to save a woman 's life . 
In April 1986 , then-Vice President Bush had his staff write a letter spelling out that he would support a constitutional amendment banning abortions except in cases of rape , incest and life endangerment , but that he opposed federal funding in all but the latter case . 
At the GOP convention last year , he again came out for an amendment with exceptions for rape , incest and life endangerment . 
He again urged passage of a constitutional amendment outlawing abortion . 
When the ruling was handed down , the vacationing president dispatched Chief of Staff John Sununu to issue a statement and refused to answer questions himself . 
What few comments he has initiated have been oblique , such as urging `` greater efforts toward the protection of human life '' at a meeting of Catholic lawyers in Boston last month . 
The session failed to enact any new curbs . 
Ken Ruberg , head of the Republican Mainstream Committee , a group of party moderates , observes : `` The administration finds itself in an ideological cul de sac that it will find it difficult -- if not impossible -- to get itself out of . 
The 1989 Americans With Disabilities Act is about eliminating discriminatory barriers . 
This is how American women won the right to vote . 
Disabled Americans have had their civil rights guaranteed in all federally funded programs since Section 504 was passed as a part of the 1973 Rehabilitation Act . The 1989 act simply extends these guarantees to the private sector . 
The 1989 act simply extends these guarantees to the private sector . 
Those who fear a plethora of suits paralyzing our legal system need only look at the record on the Rehabilitation Act . 
Without legal recourse , there are no guarantees of civil rights for anyone . 
Donald DeScenza , an independent analyst in New Canaan , Conn. , said he was `` impressed with the company 's performance . '' However , Harry Millis , an analyst at McDonald & Co. , Cleveland , said Goodyear 's results `` fell at the bottom '' of his range of estimates . 
He said results were better than he 'd expected and indicate that Goodyear is in the midst of a turnaround from a string of lackluster quarters that have plagued the company for a year . 
Excluding an increase in the tax rate and the effects of foreign currency translations , Mr. Millis said the company 's results `` were still a little disappointing . '' 
Total tire segment sales were up only about 1 % to $ 2.2 billion , and the company said it reduced manufacturing levels at some of its U.S. tire plants because of inventory adjustments and slackened production by auto makers . 
Though imports were troublesome , they were n't running away with the market , and American companies had high hopes that steel import quotas would be extended for another five years . 
Perhaps most important , Carl Icahn , who had once threatened a hostile takeover bid , was subdued . 
He and Mr. Roderick were even dining out together . 
Mr. Icahn , the company 's deep-pocketed , tenacious adversary , recently disclosed that he had raised his USX stake to 13.1 % , and he again threatened a takeover . 
The import quotas got only a 2 1\/2-year extension , and USX is laboring under a staggering $ 5.8 billion debt at a time when it must spend money to upgrade steel mills and drill for oil . 
`` It 's a baptism of fire for Corry , '' says one USX executive . 
Mr. Corry might have to dismember the company more than he wants to . 
Mr. Roderick did so by having USX redeem a series of guaranteed notes , a move that , in effect , raised the cost of a $ 7.19 billion Icahn bid by about $ 3 billion . 
Over dinners at New York 's Sky Club and Links Club restaurants , the steel executive and the big investor talked steel , international trade and thoroughbred horses . 
He was shocked , associates say , to learn of Mr. Icahn 's new takeover threat . 
He huddled with directors at a special meeting two weeks ago and tried to block his opponent . 
Will he try to gain a seat on or control of the board and force a radical split of USX into separate oil and steel companies ? 
Given the weakness of the junk-bond market , can he finance a buy-out ? 
Mr. Icahn may not want to sell out unless he can get a special dividend similar to one he received before selling his stake in Texaco Inc. in June -- a coup that gave him enough cash to make his USX move . 
`` I know it 's not over , '' a sober-faced Mr. Corry acknowledged while greeting steel suppliers in New York on Oct. 12 and inviting them to a buffet of salmon and sushi in honor of Kobe Steel Ltd. , USX 's partner in a steel mill in Lorain , Ohio . 
`` He 's in a vulnerable position because he has n't established much credibility on his own , '' says Bryan Jacoboski , a securities analyst at PaineWebber Inc . 
An undistinguished college student who dabbled in zoology until he concluded that he could n't stand cutting up frogs , Mr. Corry wanted to work for a big company `` that could do big things . '' 
For years , he quietly stuck to the back accounting rooms , wearing a hat to work because everyone else did . 
`` I was never a rebel , '' he said in an earlier interview . 
`` I do n't think most of the people that have been around me would ever say they 've seen me pound the table or get angry . '' 
He served as Mr. Roderick 's front man in tense negotiations for the 1982 purchase of Marathon Oil for $ 5.9 billion . 
Soon after taking over last June , Mr. Corry rescinded a pay cut imposed on clerical workers , a move that Mr. Roderick had n't made in spite of improved earnings . 
The problem is that Mr. Icahn is pushing him to move faster and further in restructuring USX than Mr. Corry had planned . 
Mr. Icahn has long believed , associates say , that the company , whose 1988 sales totaled $ 16.88 billion , is worth $ 70 a share if broken up . 
Unlike his predecessor , who saw steel as America 's backbone , Mr. Corry tends to view it as a capital-draining and labor-intensive business with limited potential , associates say . 
In the past five years , USX has turned steel into a profit maker by closing several plants and reducing labor costs . But the short-term outlook is so-so . 
While Mr. Roderick was reared in the shadows of Pittsburgh 's smoking mills , Mr. Corry grew up in Cincinnati , a city nicknamed `` Porkapolis '' and more accustomed to pork chops than pig iron . 
He has never met Lynn Williams , the president of the United Steelworkers union , and is n't active in the industry 's main trade group , the American Iron and Steel Institute , which Mr. Roderick served as chairman . 
As Mr. Roderick once said : `` We 're a two-product company and , boy , if you ca n't figure out the value of those two parts , you are so damn dumb that you do n't belong on Wall Street . '' 
`` The time has passed for us to spin off steel , '' either in a public offering or to a buyer , one executive contends . 
About the only way that USX now can get out of steel is to dish it out , piece by piece , in separate joint ventures , he adds . 
`` I do n't think he has a clear sense of where he wants the company to go , '' one says . 
Right now , the executive adds , `` he wants to continue to focus on paying down '' USX 's debt by selling assets . 
Johnnie Johnson , who worked for Mr. Corry in strategic planning , recalls how his boss would routinely ask a subordinate to research an entire industry to target acquisition candidates . `` What he really wanted to know was about a particular company , but you did n't know that . He wanted your own unbiased , virgin opinion , '' says Mr. Johnson , now managing director at Georgeson & Co. , a proxy-solicitation and investor-relations firm . 
`` What he really wanted to know was about a particular company , but you did n't know that . 
He wanted your own unbiased , virgin opinion , '' says Mr. Johnson , now managing director at Georgeson & Co. , a proxy-solicitation and investor-relations firm . 
USX , he noted , was formed 88 years ago , `` by in effect buying out a bunch of other companies ... . 
People got rich through takeovers in those days , as they do today . '' 
Mr. Arafat publicly renounced terrorism Dec. 15 , satisfying the U.S. precondition for a direct `` dialogue '' with the PLO . 
`` We have no independent evidence linking Fatah to any acts of terrorism since Dec. 15 , 1988 , '' he said , referring to the specific PLO group that Mr. Arafat heads . 
`` So far , this list does n't change our view . 
Israel wants to end the dialogue , but our analysts take a different view than theirs . '' 
The State Department said it has n't yet seen copies of those papers . 
Now , Jerusalem says it is backing up its contention with detailed accounts of alleged terrorist acts and plans linked to Mr. Arafat . 
It blames most of these on Fatah . 
The State Department said it had received a new letter on the subject from Israeli Foreign Minister Moshe Arens , restating Israel 's previous objection to negotiating with any Palestinian tied to the PLO . 
The U.S. defines it as `` premediated , politically motivated violence perpetrated against noncombatant targets by subnational groups or clandestine state agents . '' 
To meet the U.S. criteria , Israel contended it only listed incidents that involved civilians and occurred inside its pre-1967 borders . 
The papers , which Israel says were discovered in Israeli-occupied Gaza , refer to terrorist acts to be carried out in the name of a group called `` the Revolutionary Eagles . '' 
By midmorning , the DJIA had plunged 80 points and foreign-exchange dealers quickly drove the dollar down . 
They added that the DJIA 's swift drop proved an easy excuse for the market to drive the U.S. currency in the direction it was already headed . 
Sterling was quoted at $ 1.6055 , up from $ 1.6030 late Monday . 
Traders attribute the mark 's surge to a robust West German economy and higher rate differentials . 
The news also knocked the British unit to below 2.95 marks in London , but a bout of short-covering helped sterling recoup some of its earlier losses . 
The close was the highest since Aug. 15 . 
Estimated volume was a light two million ounces . 
The mismatch exposed the company to a high degree of interest-rate risk , and when rates moved unfavorably -- beginning late last year and continuing into this year -- `` it cost them , '' Mr. Kriz said . 
As some securities mature and the proceeds are reinvested , the problems ought to ease , he said . 
Boston Co. officials declined to comment on Moody 's action or on the unit 's financial performance this year -- except to deny a published report that outside accountants had discovered evidence of significant accounting errors in the first three quarters ' results . 
The resulting scandal led to the firing of James N. von Germeten as Boston Co. 's president and to the resignations of the company 's chief financial officer and treasurer . 
The executives were accused of improperly deferring expenses and booking revenue early , in an effort to dress up results -- and perhaps bolster performance-related bonuses . 
The company 's current management found itself `` locked into this , '' he said . 
Sears said its U.S. stores had a loss of $ 6.9 million , their first deficit for the period in more than five years . 
Analysts estimated that sales at U.S. stores declined in the quarter , too . 
Under the new approach , Sears set prices that were somewhere between its old `` regular '' and `` sale '' prices . 
The company said it would resort far less often to slashing prices to woo shoppers . 
He added that , after an initial surge triggered by an advertising blitz in March , Sears expected that the pricing program would n't have any effect on revenue . 
Sears has been counting on growth coming from the large displays of brand-name merchandise it is adding to its stores over the next two years in what it calls `` power formats . '' 
`` I believe everyday pricing in the current environment does n't work , '' says Walter Loeb of Morgan Stanley & Co. , pointing to soft durable-goods sales . 
`` Sears is likely to be unsuccessful if it continues with its pricing policy when everyone else is offering unusual values . '' 
The company is highlighting more special deals in its advertising and stores , and it 's offering to defer finance charges on certain big-ticket items . 
'' By lowering prices throughout its stores , she says , `` Sears has the right idea . '' 
`` When Sears has a sale at a special price , '' the woman in the ad declares , `` it 's something you do n't want to miss . '' 
The number of people who said they were more likely to shop at Sears fell in September to 37 % from 66 % in March , when Sears blanketed the airwaves with ads about its new pricing strategy . 
Just 5 % of the respondents mentioned brands in September , up slightly from 2 % in March . 
Only 2 % of the people in September cited Sears 's `` friendly personnel . '' 
`` You see some improvement in these other areas , but it 's a very small and slow process . '' 
Sears said claims from the storm , as expected , reduced its third-quarter net by $ 80 million , or 23 cents a share . 
Profit at Sears 's Coldwell Banker Real Estate Group nearly quadrupled to $ 81.2 million because of gains on sales of property . 
Unused houses deteriorate rapidly , affecting the value of nearby homes ; in a domino effect , the entire neighborhood can fall victim . At this stage some people just `` walk away '' from homes where the mortgage exceeds current market value . 
; in a domino effect , the entire neighborhood can fall victim . 
At this stage some people just `` walk away '' from homes where the mortgage exceeds current market value . 
Here are some ideas : 
An occupant will , in most every case , be better for the home and neighborhood than a vacant house . 
In this way , the house is not dumped on to a glutted market . 
The southern unemployment rate rose to 21.3 % in July from 21.2 % in April and from 20.6 % a year earlier . 
Revenue rose to $ 4.45 billion from $ 4.15 billion . 
; `` we expected growth of 6 % to 7 % , '' Mr. Henderson said . 
Operating-profit margins slipped almost 18 % , to 4.3 % of sales , the analyst noted . 
`` They are holding their own in a weak market , and the restructuring is working , '' he says . 
Revenue rose 7.6 % to $ 12.97 billion from $ 12.05 billion . 
That `` suggests the manufacturing sector is not falling apart , '' said Sally Kleinman , an economist at Manufacturers Hanover Securities Corp. in New York . 
Orders for capital defense goods skyrocketed 56 % , and a government analyst said nearly all areas saw increases , including airplanes , missiles , ships , tanks and communications equipment . 
While all the numbers in the durable goods report were adjusted for seasonal fluctuations , a Commerce Department analyst said that the adjustment probably did n't factor out all of the wide-ranging surge in defense orders . 
Unfilled orders for durable goods rose 0.4 % in September , to $ 476.14 billion , after declining for the first time in 2 1\/2 years in August . 
In July unfilled orders grew 1 % . 
That is a little disturbing , '' Ms. Kleinman said . 
Such steep drops in a category seen as a barometer of business investment would customarily be grave news for the economy . 
Now at least there are question marks about that , and without any question the pace of growth has slowed . 
In composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange , Norfolk Southern shares closed at $ 37.875 , up $ 1.125 . 
`` The impact wo n't be that great , '' said Graeme Lidgerwood of First Boston Corp . 
That is in part because of the effect of having to average the number of shares outstanding , she said . 
The buy-back `` is really a comfort to those who want to buy the stock that there is a -LCB- price -RCB- floor , '' he said . 
`` At a certain price , if the management thinks -LCB- the stock -RCB- is cheap , they can go in and buy it . '' 
It has purchased about 19 million of them . 
; the company 's cable-television unit reported 1988 revenue of about $ 100 million . 
: It had little to say . 
Unfortunately , the comment was buried in another article , so it could not stand out in an education context . 
After a wonderfully frivolous early childhood , they are exposed to rigid discipline as soon as they enter school . '' 
Unless parents and educators alike start to develop more discipline in children , all the worthy concern , discussions and actions will not solve the problem . 
The board expanded to 17 seats . 
; lending practices vary widely by location . 
The appointment increased the number of directors to 10 , three of whom are company employees . 
Now this remarkable economic growth seems to be coming to an end because the government has not converted itself into a modern , democratic , `` developed nation '' mode of operation . 
The government built ports , bridges , highways , schools , hospitals and railways . 
When industries were weak , it protected them . 
It gave the Japanese people a value system , based on the rationalization that given the country 's lack of natural resources , they must work hard to create value through exports and buy food with the surplus . 
Individual prosperity inevitably would result . 
The standard of living has increased steadily over the past 40 years ; more than 90 % of the people consider themselves middle class . 
; more than 90 % of the people consider themselves middle class . 
The LDP won by a landslide in the last election , in July 1986 . 
: Japan does not have a modern government . 
Its government still wants to sit in the driver 's seat , set the speed , step on the gas , apply the brakes and steer , with 120 million people in the back seat . 
In a modern system , the government 's role is to give the people as much choice as possible and to keep them well informed so they are capable of making a choice . 
The Ministry of Agriculture and Fishery actually is a ministry for farmers and fishermen instead of a ministry of provisions . 
The Ministry of Health and Welfare is a ministry of doctors and pharmaceutical companies rather than an organization dedicated to protecting the health of the people . 
The Ministry of Education is nothing but a cartel for licensed teachers , and certainly does not act on behalf of students . 
The Ministry of Construction spreads concrete throughout the country and boasts in international conferences that Japan 's paved roadway per capita is the longest in the world , but they seldom think of the poor commuters who spend so much time sitting in traffic . 
The Ministry of Transportation serves the industry , certainly not the passengers who must pay extraordinarily high prices . 
This ministry has done nothing to correct the misunderstandings and misperceptions that are at the root of Japan 's deteriorating image . 
; they do not serve the people , and particularly not consumers . 
They serve the industries and the special-interest groups . 
Japanese put up with it because the government provided job stability and growing paychecks . 
It is a bureaucratic country . 
The Diet plays a minor role compared with the powerful bureaucratic system . 
Most bills are drafted by bureaucrats , not politicians . 
The Diet does n't normally even debate bills because the opposition parties are so often opposed to whatever LDP does that it would be a waste of time . 
; particularly difficult bills are passed in the absence of the opposition parties . 
This makes enormous sense in Japan , where direct tax accounts for more than 70 % of revenues and the capture rate of direct tax is so unfair . 
If you are a salaried man , Amen ! 100 % captured . 
If you are a retailer , 50 % , and a farmer , 30 % . 
To correct this inequality , most people would have favored an indirect tax , like the consumption tax . 
They were frustrated by the longer queues at the cashier and the small coins given as change . 
All of a sudden , prices were no longer in denominations of 100 or 200 . 
They were 103 or 206 . 
Pockets exploded with one-yen coins . 
Money , such as in Recruit 's political donations , and women , as in the cases of Prime Minister Sosuke Uno and Secretary General Tokuo Yamashita , seldom have caused political scandals in Japan . 
Whereas most men were a bit ambivalent about the sex scandals -LRB- though they were furious about Recruit -RRB- , women were upset about both and surged to the polls . 
In the recent Upper House and Tokyo metropolitan congressional elections , in which the Socialist Party won a runaway victory , 60 % of all women voted , as opposed to the usual 40 % . 
It 's now OK to deal with the U.S. , but not the Soviet Union . 
Nuclear power plants are acceptable . 
The U.S.-Japan Security Treaty can continue , sort of . 
Now is the time to reform the government from a provider , developing-country vanguard role to that of a modern , industrialized nation in which consumers have the ultimate choice . 
If the LDP , as currently composed , ca n't make the transformation , then it should split into two parties . 
One party could stand for consumer interests , small government , free trade and globalism to put Japan clearly among the most developed and open countries . 
The other party could continue on the traditional track of the LDP , representing the manufacturers ' preference for larger government , control , regulation and protectionism . 
; Lower House elections must take place before June . 
In the current mood of the Japanese people , journalists and even some industrialists , giving power to the Socialists might be good for the LDP , cleansing it of past sins . 
At the most there is only nine months before the LDP fuse burns out . 
Men would crawl in the sand looking for shiny stones . 
It was as easy as collecting sea shells at Malibu . 
Last year , 43 million tons of desert were moved from one dune to another to recover 934,242 carats , which comes to 46 tons of sand per carat , or one-fifth gram . 
Oh yes , the Atlantic was also pushed back 300 yards . 
Thanks to centuries of polishing by Mother Nature -- first in the gentle current of the Orange River that carried the stones from South Africa 's interior , then in the cold surf of the ocean , and finally in the coarse sands of the desert -- 98 % of the diamonds uncovered are of gem quality . 
While other mines might yield more carats , a higher percentage of them go to industrial use . 
Months after railway worker Zacharias Lewala first picked up a diamond from the sand in 1908 , the German colonialists who controlled Namibia proclaimed a wide swath of the desert -- about 200 miles north from the Orange River and 60 miles inland from the Atlantic -- a restricted area , a designation normally reserved for military operations . 
When the Germans lost World War I , they lost Namibia to South Africa and the diamonds to Ernest Oppenheimer , patriarch of Anglo American Corp. and De Beers . 
Today , no one gets in or out of the restricted area without De Beers 's stingy approval . 
Ghost towns dot the Namib dunes , proving diamonds are n't forever . 
Oranjemund , the mine headquarters , is a lonely corporate oasis of 9,000 residents . 
Jackals roam the streets at night , and gemsbok , hardy antelope with long straight horns , wander in from the desert to drink from water sprinklers . 
On most days , the desert 's heat and the cool of the ocean combine to create a mist like a damp rag . 
The wind , stinging with sand , never seems to stop . 
There are six video rental shops , three restaurants , one cinema and 34 sports and recreation clubs for everything from cricket to lawn bowling . 
The pride of Oranjemund is the 18-hole golf course -- with the largest sand trap in the world . 
`` Nothing is too good for our golf course , '' says Tony George , a mining engineer . 
Mechanized vacuum cleaners probe the sand like giant anteaters ; a whirring ferris wheellike excavator , with buckets instead of seats , chews through layers of compacted sand ; tracks and conveyor belts , shuttling sand to the screening plants , criss-cross the beach . 
; a whirring ferris wheellike excavator , with buckets instead of seats , chews through layers of compacted sand ; tracks and conveyor belts , shuttling sand to the screening plants , criss-cross the beach . 
; tracks and conveyor belts , shuttling sand to the screening plants , criss-cross the beach . 
When the mining in front of the wall is complete , it is moved northward . 
A companion jetty that helps hold back the sea looks like a rusting junkyard . 
Engineers first used concrete blocks to bolster the barrier , but the ocean tossed them aside like driftwood . 
`` They figure it 's not a very good advert . '' 
Laboring in blue and gray overalls , they are supposed to concentrate on cleaning out crevices , and not strain their eyes looking for diamonds . 
For these workers at the bottom of the mine 's pay scale , this is usually enough to overcome the temptation to steal -- a crime that could earn them up to 15 years in jail . 
One man wrapped several diamonds in the knot of his tie . 
Another poked a hole in the heel of his shoe . 
A food caterer stashed stones in the false bottom of a milk pail . 
None made it past the body searches and X-rays of mine security . 
Just after Hurricane Hugo battered South Carolina , some officials talked of perhaps adding a penny to the state gasoline tax or raising property taxes . 
Gov. Campbell responded , `` They 're mentioning rope when there 's been a hanging in the family . '' 
A spokesman says the governor believes he can avoid increases by relying on federal aid and shifting funds in state programs . 
California , where earthquake damage may top $ 5 billion , plans a special legislative session . 
Property-tax relief is likely . 
Legislators are talking about temporary rises in sales or gasoline taxes , although Gov. Deukmejian says they should be a last resort . 
Needs are n't clear , and the state constitution makes increasing taxes and spending very difficult . 
If the IRS admits its error and the charges have been paid , it will reimburse a taxpayer who has n't refused to give timely answers to IRS inquiries or has n't contributed to continuing or compounding the error . 
The IRS recently amended the policy to cover stop-payment charges for checks lost by the IRS . 
Reimbursement claims must be filed with the IRS district or service-center director within a year after the expense accrues . 
If the IRS seeks late-payment interest because of the lost check , you should request interest abatement , publisher Prentice Hall notes . 
Their debt will be well under the $ 1 million limit -- on borrowing to acquire , build , or improve a home -- that qualifies for mortgage-interest deductions . 
Notice 89-107 offers added relief for hurricane-hit concerns that must file pension and benefit-plan returns . 
The General Accounting Office estimates that 50 % of IRS audits do n't spot companies that fail to file the reports . 
It held that Testa is taxable on $ 44,400 of unreported income . 
He plans to tell clients to pay certain fees directly to the foundation instead of to him ; he would omit those fees from income reported on his return . 
; he would omit those fees from income reported on his return . 
The rule goes back at least as far as a 1930 Supreme Court decision , Robert Willens of Shearson Lehman Hutton says . 
, the IRS says ; of course , he also may take a charitable deduction for them . 
; Rep. Cardin -LRB- D. , Md . -RRB- replaces him ... . 
The conference opened Monday with glowing reports about consumer magazines ' growth in circulation and advertising revenue in the past year . 
`` How do readers feel about the magazine ? 
Research does n't tell us whether people actually do read the magazines they subscribe to . '' 
`` We need research that convinces us that magazines are a real value in reader 's lives , that readers are really involved . '' 
Leonard Lauder , president and chief executive officer of Estee Lauder , said consumer magazines are suffering from what he called `` niche-itis , '' the increasing number of magazines that target the idosyncratic interests of readers . 
`` We are being over-magazined . 
We are constantly faced with deciding which partnerships -LCB- with magazines -RCB- we can keep . '' 
He added : `` There 's probably even a magazine for left-handed golfers ... but the general interest magazine is something we all miss , and it should come back . '' 
`` Readers do n't want to face all those ad pages at the front of a magazine , '' he said . 
`` We spend a fortune on research information , '' said Steve Burzon , publisher of Meredith Corp. 's Metropolitan Home . 
Revenue more than doubled to $ 2.62 billion from $ 1.29 billion . 
`` I suspect October was n't as good as the third quarter , and they 'll have difficulty matching the third quarter in the fourth quarter , '' Mr. Blumstein said . 
`` I upgraded the firm to my buy list because I certainly see signs of improvement , '' says Lawrence Eckenfelder , an analyst at Prudential-Bache Securities . 
`` The market has been overly harsh to them . '' 
In the first quarter , Salomon had a record loss of $ 28 million on revenue of $ 1.54 billion . 
Developers and money managers are looking for bargains among the thousands of financially troubled properties around the country . 
Real estate professionals now often bill themselves as `` turnaround experts '' and `` workout specialists . '' 
Some plan to pursue foreign development ventures , mostly in Europe . 
They 'll go into someone else 's pasture as long as it 's greener than the one they 're in now . '' 
The builders are more willing to give up some equity and rely on management and consulting fees to stay afloat in the soft market . 
`` Developers are teaming up with institutions often acting as project managers , '' says Smedes York , ULI president and president of York Properties Inc. , of Raleigh , N.C . 
`` They are growing more pragmatic about their role . '' 
`` Why should you beat your brains out fighting the environmentalists , the neighborhood groups , dealing with traffic mitigation , sewers and fighting city hall , then try to convince a lender to lend you money in an overbuilt market when you can get pension fund money , buy a portfolio , sell off pieces off it and play your own game ? '' says Jack Rodman , managing partner of the Los Angeles office of Kenneth Leventhal Inc. a national accounting firm . 
The level of interest in the RTC 's properties has been greater than expected , and has come from larger companies than initially anticipated , says Stan Ross , Leventhal 's co-managing partner . 
Quips David Shulman , director of real estate research for Salomon Brothers Inc. : `` A theme of the Urban Land conference will be ` take a pension fund manager to lunch . 
`` This is an outstanding example of how the East and the West can work together for their mutual benefit and progress , '' said Soviet Ambassador Yuri Dubinin , who hosted a signing ceremony for the venture 's partners at the Soviet embassy here . 
He added that it likely will have a `` mulitiplier effect '' in stimulating further trade between the two countries . 
One of the hotels , to be called the Sheraton Moscow , will have 450 rooms and will cost an estimated $ 75 million to build . 
The six-story hotel will be on Gorky Street and initially will cater mostly to business travelers . 
It will have a Russian tavern , an English pub , a discotheque and Japanese and Italian restaurants , according to a Sheraton announcement . 
; Pan American , a subsidiary of Pan Am Corp. , will have a 10 % share . 
The Soviet owners will be Mossoviet , Moscow 's city governing body , and Aeroflot , the Soviet national airline . 
Chevron Corp. , Amoco Corp. , Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. , and Eastman Kodak Co. are among the U.S. companies known to be considering such ventures . 
He said the rising volume of passenger traffic on this route justifies a major investment in new high-standard Moscow hotels . 
Mr. Shaffer takes primary responsibility for the electronic and technical-services group . 
He had been group vice president of the electronic-publishing group . 
By 1995 it will be planted more often than any other apple tree , according to a recent survey of six apple-industry sages by Washington State University horticulturist Robert Norton . 
Some fruit visionaries say the Fuji could someday tumble the Red Delicious from the top of America 's apple heap . 
Compared to the Red Delicious , the exemplar of apple pulchritude , the Fuji is decidedly more dowdy -- generally smaller , less-perfectly shaped , greenish , with tinges of red . 
To hear most U.S. growers tell it , we 'd still be in Paradise if the serpent had proffered one to Eve . 
It has more sugar `` than any apple we 've ever tested , '' says Duane Greene , a University of Massachusetts pomologist , or apple scholar . 
It has a long shelf life and `` does n't fool the public , '' says Grady Auvil , an Orondo , Wash. , grower who is planting Fujis and spreading the good word about them . 
`` It does n't look nice on the outside while getting mealy inside . '' 
He is known as the father of the U.S.-grown Granny Smith , a radically different apple that the conventional wisdom once said would never catch on . 
It did , shaking the apple establishment to its roots . 
Now , even more radical changes seem afoot as the grand old maverick of American apples plays the role of Hiroshi Appleseed . 
`` The Fuji is going to be No. 1 to replace the Red Delicious , '' he says . 
New apple trees grow slowly , and the Red Delicious is almost as entrenched as mom . 
Its roots are patriotic -- with the first trees appearing in 1872 in an orchard near Peru , Iowa , to be exact . 
For more than 50 years , it has been the apple of our eye . 
A good Delicious can indeed be delicious . 
More than twice as many Red Delicious apples are grown as the Golden variety , America 's No. 2 apple . 
`` Red Delicious has been overplanted , and its prices have dropped below the cost of production , '' says Washington State 's Mr. Norton . 
The scare over Alar , a growth regulator that makes apples redder and crunchier but may be carcinogenic , made consumers shy away from the Delicious , though they were less affected than the McIntosh . 
The glut and consequent lower prices , combined with cancer fears , was a very serious blow to growers . 
`` A lot of growers wo n't be around in a few years , '' says Mr. Norton , although they have stopped using Alar . 
I 'm going to have to get another job this year just to eat . '' 
Even if a grower beats them back , his $ 2,000 rented bees might buzz off to the neighbors ' orchards instead of pollinating his , Mr. Broderick says . 
`` I 've ripped out a lot of Delicious '' and grafted the trees with many different shoots , says Steve Wood , a West Lebanon , N.H. , grower , tramping through his 100-acre Poverty Lane Orchard on a crisp autumn day recently . 
`` I 've got 70 kinds of apples . 
Here 's a Waltana , '' he exclaims , picking one off a tree . 
He bites it , scowls and throws it down . `` 
It 's a real dog . '' 
They still buy apples mainly for big , red good looks -- that 's why so many taste like woodchucks ' punching bags . 
`` Rather than sell 39-cents-a-pound Delicious , maybe we can sell 79-cents-a-pound Fujis , '' says Chuck Tryon , perishables director for Super Valu Inc. , a Minneapolis supermarket chain and food distributor . 
Japanese researchers have bred dozens of strains of Fujis to hone its color , taste and shelf life . 
Now the best of them age as gracefully as Grannies , the industry 's gold standard for storability . 
: During the past 15 years , it has gone from almost zilch to some 50 % of Japan 's market . 
The U.S. Department of Agriculture estimates that this year Americans will eat about 40 % more fresh apples per capita than the Japanese . 
Once somebody eats one , they get hooked . '' 
-LRB- Taiwan already is a big importer of Fujis from other places , he adds . -RRB- 
`` I expect to see the demand exceed supply for Fujis for the next 10 to 15 years , '' he adds . 
Washington Red Delicious , by the way , are wholesaling for less than $ 10 a box these days . 
`` When the chain stores took over , there was no longer a connection between grower and consumer . 
A guy is sitting up in an office deciding what you 're going to eat . '' 
Now , those red applelike things stores sell in summer are fruitbowl lovely , but usually not good eating . 
It ripens later than most apples , and growing it in U.S. areas with chilly autumns may be tricky . 
Mr. Broderick , the Massachusetts grower , says the `` big boss '' at a supermarket chain even rejected his Red Delicious recently because they were n't waxed and brushed for extra shine . 
He sees a shift in American values -- at least regarding apples -- toward more emphasis on substance and less on glitz . 
`` Taste has finally come to the fore , '' he says . 
On Friday , the firms filed a suit against West Virginia in New York state court asking for a declaratory judgment absolving them of liability . 
From 1980 to 1988 , while federal budget deficits totaled $ 1.41 trillion , the government issued $ 394 billion of new direct loans and an additional $ 756 billion of new primary loan guarantees . 
These figures omit secondary guarantees , deposit insurance , and the activities of Government-Sponsored Enterprises -LRB- a huge concern in its own right , as detailed on this page May 3 -RRB- . 
Since the 1950s , federal lending has experienced extraordinary growth in credit volume , subsidy rates , and policy applications , spurred on by the growth of government in general and budget gimmicks and deceptive management in particular . 
As we will see , many of these obligations do n't show up as part of the federal deficit . 
Student loan defaults remain high at about 12 % , and the program has been rocked by allegations of fraud and mismanagement . 
Farmers Home Administration -LRB- FmHA -RRB- loans have turned into de facto giveaway programs ; losses over the next three years are expected to exceed $ 20 billion . 
; losses over the next three years are expected to exceed $ 20 billion . 
Defaults on Veterans Affairs loan guarantees have quadrupled in the past eight years . 
GAO 's findings are particularly troubling because the FHA has about $ 300 billion in obligations outstanding and had previously been considered one of the most financially secure credit programs . 
: The federal government holds $ 222 billion in direct loans outstanding and backs an additional $ 550 billion in primary guarantees . 
-LRB- Secondary guarantees of pools of FHA - and VA-backed loans by the agency known as Ginnie Mae currently exceed $ 330 billion . -RRB- 
To reduce the risks while still retaining the legitimate benefits these programs can provide , credit policy must : 1 . Use credit to improve the operation of capital markets , not to provide subsidies . 
If the program is meant to provide a subsidy , collecting the debt defeats the original goal . 
To avoid this problem , government should issue credit only if it intends to use every legal method to collect . 
Farm lending was enacted to correct this problem by providing a reliable flow of lendable funds . 
The program provides highly subsidized loans to any student whose family earns less than a particular amount . 
High default rates , a low interest rate , and government coverage of all interest costs while the student is in school make program costs extremely high . 
Families that do not need the loan can make money simply by putting the loan in the bank and paying it back when the student graduates . 
While the student was in school , interest costs would either be paid by the student or added to the loan balance . 
This program , combined with cash grants to needy students , would reduce program costs and much more effectively target the intended beneficiaries . 
Guarantee rates are typically 100 % , giving lenders little reason to screen customers carefully . 
Reducing those rates moderately -LRB- say , to 75 % -RRB- would still provide substantial assistance to borrowers . 
Since the government has a dismal record of collecting bad debts , the costs to the borrower of defaulting are usually low . 
Simple policy prescriptions in this case would be to improve debt collection -LRB- taking the gloves off contracted collection agencies -RRB- and to deny new credit to defaulters . 
These provisions would be difficult to enforce for a program intended to provide a subsidy , but would be reasonable and effective devices for programs that attempt to offset market imperfections . 
Loan guarantees do n't appear at all until the borrower defaults , so new guarantees do not raise the deficit , even though they create future liabilities for the government . 
By converting an expenditure or loan to a guarantee , the government can ensure the same flow of resources and reduce the current deficit . 
Predictably , guarantees outstanding have risen by $ 130 billion since 1985 , while direct loans outstanding have fallen by $ 30 billion . 
Neither technique is perfect , but both are better than the current system , which misstates the costs of new credit programs by amounts that vary substantially and average about $ 20 billion annually , according to the Congressional Budget Office . 
A budget that reflected the real costs of lending would eliminate incentives to convert spending or lending programs to guarantees and would let taxpayers know what Congress is committing them to . 
Many agencies roll over their debt , paying off delinquent loans by issuing new loans , or converting defaulted loan guarantees into direct loans . 
In any case , they avoid having to write off the loans . 
Some agencies simply keep bad loans on the books ; as late as 1987 , the Export-Import Bank held in its portfolio at face value loans made to Cuba in the 1950s . 
; as late as 1987 , the Export-Import Bank held in its portfolio at face value loans made to Cuba in the 1950s . 
More seriously , FmHA has carried several billion dollars of defaulted loans at face value . 
Until GAO 's recent audit , FHA books had not been subject to a complete external audit in 15 years . 
Establishing these practices would permit earlier identification of emerging financial crises , provide better information for loan sales and budgeting decisions , and reduce fraud . 
The reforms described above would provide a more limited , but clearer , safer and ultimately more useful role for government as a lender . 
Without such reforms , credit programs will continue to be a large-scale , high-risk proposition for taxpayers . 
Mr. Todt had been vice president and treasurer of Insilco Corp . 
He has argued that such presidential power is necessary to rein in congressional spending . 
Such an assertion most likely would bring about a court challenge from Congress that would clarify whether a president already has such power . 
Mr. Yeutter , seeking to allay European objections to an earlier U.S. plan that called for eliminating all farm-trade barriers by the year 2000 , said the new U.S. proposal would n't `` put farmers out of business '' but would only encourage them to `` grow what the markets desire instead of what the government wants . '' 
Another U.S. proposal filed Monday urges more `` fair play '' in services trade , including predictable and clear rules and equality in the treatment of foreign and domestic service companies . 
Less objectionable ones would be subject only to some restraints , and others with a `` relatively minor trade impact '' would be allowed to continue under certain conditions . 
The goal would be to resolve disputes such as one prompted by the European Community 's current attempt to bar imports of beef from hormone-treated U.S. cattle . 
The U.S. contends that the rules are n't justified on health grounds . 
Per-share figures have been adjusted for a 2-for-1 stock split effective Oct. 20 . 
Sales increased 6 % to $ 5.58 billion from $ 5.27 billion . 
Wall Street had expected a modest rise in the company 's domestic sales and earnings , and more substantial increases in overseas results . 
One factor helping sales and earnings was a 3 % price rise for most P&G products , except coffee , analysts said . 
Jay Freedman , analyst with Kidder , Peabody & Co. , said P&G 's Always sanitary napkin , sold under the Whisper name in Japan , has firmly established itself as a leading brand . 
He figures P&G will expand its personal-care product line in Japan to `` continue that momentum . '' 
Hugh Zurkuhlen , analyst with Salomon Bros. , predicts the shift will mean P&G 's sales growth in the second quarter will be `` in the double digits . '' 
Last year 's drought in the Midwest prompted retailers to stock up on oils ahead of anticipated price increases , boosting sales for Crisco and Puritan oils , analysts said . 
Lynne Hyman , vice president of equity research for First Boston Corp. , expects P&G to post net of about $ 4.20 a share , on a post-split basis . 
In fiscal 1989 , P&G earned $ 3.56 a share , adjusted for the stock split . 
`` If he does to the domestic operations what he did internationally , '' says Mr. Zurkuhlen , `` this company will earn $ 6 or $ 7 a share in a few years . 
Twenty-five years later , the Voting Rights Act has been transformed by the courts and the Justice Department into a program of racial gerrymandering designed to increase the number of blacks and other minorities -- Hispanics , Asians and native Americans -- holding elective office . 
The program has even been called upon to create `` safe '' white electoral districts in municipalities where whites are the minority . 
For the political process to work , all citizens , regardless of race , must feel represented . 
One essential indicator that they are is that members of minority groups get elected to public office with reasonable frequency . 
As is , blacks constitute 12 % of the population , but fewer than 2 % of elected leaders . 
It is a quick fix for a complex problem . 
Such a policy implies that only a black politician can speak for a black person , and that only a white politician can govern on behalf of a white one . 
When they reapportion their districts after the 1990 census , every other municipality and state in the country will face this issue . 
In 1972 , the Justice Department required that the electoral map in the borough of Brooklyn be redrawn to concentrate black and Hispanic votes , despite protests that the new electoral boundaries would split a neighborhood of Hasidic Jews into two different districts . 
Sometime in 1991 , as soon as the 1990 census becomes available , a redistricting panel will redraw the City Council district lines . 
The Charter Revision Commission has made it clear that in response to the expectations of the Justice Department and the commission 's own commitment to enhancing minority political leadership , the new district lines will be drawn to maximize the number of solidly minority districts . 
Blacks and Hispanics currently make up 38 % of the city 's population and hold only 25 % of the seats on the council . 
To win their seats on the council , these political leaders have had to listen to all the voices in their district and devise public policies that would benefit all . 
Often they have found that the relevant issue is not race , but rather housing , crime prevention or education . 
Insisting that they are protected by the Voting Rights Act , a group of whites brought a federal suit in 1987 to demand that the city abandon at-large voting for the nine member City Council and create nine electoral districts , including four safe white districts . 
The white group argued that whites were not fully and fairly represented , because in city-wide elections only black candidates or white candidates who catered to `` black interests '' could win . 
Richard Arrington , Birmingham 's black mayor , lamented the consequences . 
`` In the past , people who had to run for office had to moderate their views because they could n't afford to offend blacks or whites , '' he said . 
`` Now you go to districts , you 're likely to get candidates whose views are more extreme , white and black , on racial issues . '' 
A small farmer and a seaport merchant could not be represented by the same spokesman , they said . 
Madison explained that a representative 's duty was to speak not for the narrow interests of one group but instead for the common good . 
Large , heterogeneous election districts would encourage good government , said Madison , because a representative would be compelled to serve the interests of all his constituents and be servile to none . 
As long as we believe that all Americans , of every race and ethnic background , have common interests and can live together cooperatively , our political map should reflect our belief . 
Racial gerrymandering -- creating separate black and white districts -- says that we have discarded that belief in our ability to live together and govern ourselves as one people . 
Some highly publicized cases involving RICO TROs have been the subject of considerable criticism in the press , because of a perception that pre-trial freezing of assets is tantamount to a seizure of property without due process . 
In order to ensure that the rights of all interested parties are protected , the Criminal Division has instituted the following requirements to control the use of TROs in RICO prosecutions . 
-LRB- It should be noted that these requirements are in addition to any other existing requirements , such as review by the Asset Forfeiture Office . -RRB- : 
The prosecutor must show that less-intrusive remedies -LRB- such as bonds -RRB- are not likely to preserve the assets for forfeiture in the event of a conviction . 
; the government 's policy is not to seek the fullest forfeiture permissible under the law where that forfeiture would be disproportionate to the defendant 's crime . 
GM 's car sales dropped 24.8 % in mid-October to 69,980 , while truck sales fell 26 % to 37,860 . 
GM also had dismal results in the first 10 days of the month , while other auto makers reported mixed results . 
The seasonal adjusted annual selling rate was six million vehicles , a small improvement from the 5.8 million rate of early October , but a big drop from the 7.1 million rate a year ago . 
Industry analyst John H. Qualls , a vice president with Hill & Knowlton in St. Louis , forecasts that domestic auto makers will have a 93-day supply of cars at the end of the year , even if car sales improve to a 6.5 million vehicle rate for the quarter . 
Ford Motor Co. reported a 21.2 % drop in sales of domestic-made cars to 46,995 and a 24.2 % drop in domestic trucks to 31,143 . 
The sales are being dragged down by a glut of 1989 vehicles , said Joel Pitcoff , a Ford analyst . 
The earlier use of incentives depleted the market of `` scavengers '' for bargain-basement 1989 cars , he said . 
Business had been fairly strong until Hurricane Hugo hit the area , but has been down since . 
The No. 3 U.S. auto maker had a 23.7 % plunge in car sales to 22,336 and a 17.5 % drop in truck sales to 22,925 , which include its minivans and Jeeps . 
A Nissan spokesman attributed the increase to the use of incentives this year and not a year ago and to higher fleet sales . 
The coincidence might lead to the conclusion that short-sellers bet heavily on that day that OTC stocks would decline further . 
The sharp rise in OTC short interest compares with the 4.2 % decline in short interest on the New York Stock Exchange and the 3 % rise on the American Stock Exchange during the September-October period . 
; the short seller hopes the replacement shares bought later will cost less than those that were sold . 
Short interest , which represents the number of shares borrowed and sold , but not yet replaced , can be a bad-expectations barometer for many stocks . 
Big stocks with large short interest gains as of Oct. 13 included First Executive , Intel , Campeau and LIN Broadcasting . 
Intel 's short interest jumped 42 % , while Campeau 's increased 62 % . 
Meritor has headed the list since May . 
Shorted shares must eventually be replaced through buying . 
Short interest in the American depositary receipts of Jaguar , the target of both Ford Motor and General Motors , more than doubled . 
The weight of Lebanon 's history was also against him ; and it is a history Israel is in danger of repeating . 
Its best hope of acceptance by its neighbours lies in reaching a settlement with the Palestinians . 
Like Lebanon , Israel is being remade by demography . 
In Greater Israel more than half the children under six are Muslims . 
Within 25 years Jews will probably be the minority . 
Unlike the Maronites , Israel 's Jews will not let themselves become the weakest force in a system of private armies ; Jerusalem will become Belfast before it becomes Beirut . 
; Jerusalem will become Belfast before it becomes Beirut . 
The New York Stock Exchange Composite was 0.4 % lower for the day . 
MCI traded as low as 41 3\/8 during the session . 
Apple Computer improved 7\/8 to 47 5\/8 ; Intel slipped 1\/4 to 33 1\/4 , and Valley National Corp. was up 1\/8 to 15 1\/8 . 
; Intel slipped 1\/4 to 33 1\/4 , and Valley National Corp. was up 1\/8 to 15 1\/8 . 
While Shearson does n't do computer-guided program trading for its own account , the firm does execute orders for clients involved in the buying and selling of shares tied to movements in certain stock indexes , Mr. DaPuzzo acknowledged . 
They do n't like the risks they are forced to assume when prices swing so drastically . 
Market makers are supposed to keep supplies of stocks on hand to maintain orderly trading when imbalances occur . 
That means that on days when prices are tumbling and sellers abound they must be willing to buy shares from sellers when no one else will . 
In such an environment , a market maker can absorb huge losses . 
The market makers say they are n't comfortable carrying big positions in stocks because they realize prices can tumble quickly . 
Groused Robert Antolini , head of over-the-counter trading at Donaldson , Lufkin & Jenrette : `` It 's making it tough for traders to make money . '' 
He said that when sell programs kick in , many traders believe that `` there 's no sense in sticking your nose out because you 're an instant loser . '' 
The company posted third-quarter earnings of 95 cents a share , down from $ 1.26 a year earlier . 
The company estimated that losses from Hurricane Hugo reduced net income by 32 cents a share in the most recent quarter . 
IBM is reviewing its entire business-partners program , and XL\/Datacomp confirmed earlier this month that it was in talks with the company about possible modifications to its current IBM-remarketer contract . 
The company said net rose to 38 cents a share in its fiscal-first quarter ended Sept. 30 , from 35 cents a shares a year ago . 
Perhaps even the American apologists will now accede . 
As it bids for new agreements , new loans and indeed admission to the civilized world , the Soviet government has recognized it has a credibility problem . 
If the Soviets want to be believed , they need to start telling the truth about more than the totally obvious . 
Our own test of `` glasnost 's '' authenticity would be a Soviet decision to open itself to a complete international examination of one of the most troubling mysteries in U.S.-Soviet relations -- the reported 1979 anthrax outbreak at a Soviet military facility in Sverdlovsk . 
The Pentagon 's recently issued `` Soviet Military Power , '' though in general adopting a softer line , repeated the Sverdlovsk assessment . 
We doubt this claim just as we doubted Mr. Shevardnadze 's assurance last year that Krasnoyarsk did n't violate the ABM treaty . 
Sverdlovsk is a large gray cloud over glasnost and indeed over the legitimacy of the arms-control process itself . 
Biological weapons violations have figured little in political debate , and indeed have not been pressed vigorously enough by the U.S. government . 
Until that happens , glasnost can not begin to deserve the kind of credibility Mr. Shevardnadze was bidding for with his confessions on Monday . 
It said it would purchase the stock at market price . 
`` We are considering that offer along with all other alternatives , '' the trust spokeswoman said . 
`` We need to look at how to maximize our cash flow to pay our beneficiaries . '' 
As of June 30 , it had settled about 15,000 of 81,000 claims filed and its unpaid claims totaled $ 136 million , a large portion of its $ 268 million in cash and marketable securities . 
A Manville spokesman would n't elaborate on the proposed changes . 
Some of the three other bidding groups are expected to increase their offers tomorrow , a date set for revised offers by a bankruptcy court judge . 
Secured creditors would recover both principal and interest , while unsecured creditors would receive only principal and interest accrued before PS of New Hampshire filed for Bankruptcy Code protection in January 
Assuming full operation of the Seabrook nuclear power plant , which is completed but is n't yet operating , equity holders would receive up to $ 500 million in cash , preferred stock and new 10-year Seabrook bonds . 
Northeast 's previous offer had proposed that equity holders receive just $ 165 million . 
Its previous proposal had conditioned rate limits on Seabrook operations and other contingencies . 
That plan would leave existing preferred shareholders with at least a 41 % stake and give common shareholders as little as 13 % . 
The state of New Hampshire has favored that plan . 
Until his labor can produce a profit in this dying and distorted system , even Solidarity 's sympathetic new government wo n't win him over . 
; this year , it was the farmers who brought them down . 
In June , farmers held onto meat , milk and grain , waiting for July 's usual state-directed price rises . 
The farmers ran a boycott , and meat disappeared from the shops . 
On Aug. 1 , the state tore up its controls , and food prices leaped . 
Without buffer stocks , inflation exploded . 
`` Shortageflation , '' as economists have come to call it , had gone hyper . 
The cost of raising a pig kept bounding ahead of the return for selling one . 
The farmers stayed angry . 
They still are . 
Here , they are searching for a higher price . 
`` Of course it 's better to sell private , '' he says , as the butcher trundles away . 
`` Why should anybody want to sell to them ? '' 
He wo n't for long , because his old state sources of rye and potatoes are drying up . 
`` There 's no feed , '' he says . 
`` You ca n't buy anything nowadays . 
The farmer at the next truck shouts , `` Wheat ! It 's nice ! 
A heavy , kerchiefed woman runs a handful through her fingers , and counts him out a pile of zlotys . 
`` They ca n't buy feed from the state . 
There is n't enough . 
Some state middlemen come to buy from me . 
I am waiting . 
I have plenty more at home . '' 
At closing time , farmers cart out most of what they carted in . 
A private market like this just is n't big enough to absorb all that business . 
State monopolies will keep on stifling trade , `` free '' prices or not , until something else replaces them . 
Polish agriculture will need a whole private network of procurement , processing and distribution -- plus a new manufacturing industry to supply it with tractors , pesticides , fertilizers and feed . 
Building them now will require undergirding from the West , and removal of political deadwood , a job that Solidarity has barely started . 
`` There are a lot of them , and they have property . '' 
Now , among Communist reformers , they are objects of envy . 
Food is the reformer 's top priority , the key to popular support . 
Ownership , it seems , is the best fertilizer . 
The Poles have had it all along . 
Like the Roman Catholic Church , the Polish peasant is a pillar of the nation . 
Try as they might , the Communists could neither replace nor break him . 
He grows rye and potatoes for a few hens , five cows and 25 piglets . 
Then the state put in a reservoir to supply the area with drinking water . 
Farmers lay down before the bulldozers . 
Their protest was ignored . 
He expected as much . 
No phones . 
No gas . 
`` We wanted them to build a road here , '' he says . 
`` They started , and then abandoned it . '' 
A tractor , his only mechanized equipment , stands in front of the pigsty . 
Good for nothing . 
Parts are a tragedy . 
Even if I had a lot of money , I could n't buy what I need . '' 
In Poland , only 4 % of all investment goes toward making things farmers want ; in the West , it is closer to 20 % . 
; in the West , it is closer to 20 % . 
They use 60 % more fertilizer per acre , twice the high-grade feed . 
A private farmer never wastes anything . '' 
Until recently , a farmer with no heir had to will the state his land to collect his pension . 
The pension 's size still depends on how much produce he sells the state . 
His allotment of materials also did , until the state could n't hold up its end of that bargain . 
When supplies are short , it often hands them over only in exchange for milk or grain . 
He is free to invest in chickens , and to fail for lack of chicken wire . 
He has plenty of freedom -- but no choices . 
`` I do n't have to listen to what anybody tells me to do . '' 
Villages like Zalubice exist in a desert of poor schools and few doctors . 
Farm income is 15 % below the average . 
The young leave , especially girls who wo n't milk cows by hand . 
Some men stay , their best friend a bottle of vodka , but two million acres have gone fallow . 
Without machines , good farms ca n't get bigger . 
Meat consumption is at 1979 's level , pork production at 1973 's , milk output at 1960 's . 
The potential is displayed along every road into Warsaw : row upon row of greenhouses , stretching out behind modern mansions that trumpet their owners ' wealth . 
Vegetables are abundant and full of flavor in Poland , the pickles and sauerkraut sublime , the state monopolies long broken . 
Poland makes no machinery for a plant on that scale . 
Solidarity wants it from the West . 
Maria Stolzman , one of its farm experts , lays it on the line : `` The World Bank will be brought in to help us destroy the old system . '' 
He packs pork . 
He cashed in . 
Poland is short on enterprises , not enterprise . 
I do n't subsidize anyone . 
Everyone around me lives well . 
If nobody buys , I bring my prices down . 
That 's the rule . 
That 's the market . '' 
He has bought some trendy Western clothes , and a green Mercedes with an American flag in the window . 
`` I do n't want expensive machines . 
If the situation changes , I 'll get stuck with them . '' 
By taking power in a deal with the Peasant Party 's onetime Communist stooges , Solidarity has spooked the rural entrepreneur . 
Rural Solidarity objected , to no avail , when Solidarity leader Lech Walesa accepted the Peasants ' support . 
It objected again in September when Prime Minister Tadeusz Mazowiecki reluctantly named a Peasant Party man as his agriculture minister . 
`` We do n't know how to get from socialism to capitalism . '' 
`` That 's what the naczelnik counts on . 
Every time he sees me , he gets very nervous . '' 
A thin man in a gray suit looks up from a newspaper . 
Mr. Niciporuk sits . 
Anatol Pawlowski 's leg begins jiggling beneath his desk . 
`` They want to turn everything upside down in a week . 
Mr. Niciporuk here wants 60 acres used at the moment by a state farm . 
He ca n't guarantee that he can use it any better . '' 
The farmer stands to go . 
The naczelnik stands , too . 
`` Eight years I 've had it . 
A cultural center has been built , shops . 
Suddenly , I am not a comfortable man for Solidarity . 
I have accomplished too much . 
They want to do more . 
I wish them all the best ! '' 
Going to the well of the chamber , Mr. Panetta demanded the costs be fully counted . 
His prominent role put him in the awkward position of challenging the very committee members on whom his state will be most dependent in the months ahead . 
`` We do not intend to hide these costs from the American people . '' 
The funds are in addition to $ 1.1 billion appropriated last month to assist in the recovery from Hugo , bringing the total for the two disasters to nearly $ 4 billion in unanticipated spending . 
Within the appropriations process , the situation is even more difficult since the costs will be counted against the share of funds to be allocated to those subcommittees that recently have had the greatest difficulty in staying within the budget . 
The hastily drafted measure could hurt California by requiring it to put up more matching funds for emergency highway assistance than otherwise would be required . 
Administration pressure discourages any effort to add to total funding , and the Senate changes are expected to be largely technical -- dealing with highway aid and lifting the ceiling on total Small Business Administration loans to $ 1.8 billion to accommodate the increased activity expected . 
An estimated $ 25.8 million is allocated to continue work in Oman . 
An estimated $ 38.9 million was set aside for military installations in the home state of North Carolina Rep. W.G. Hefner , the House chairman . 
Senate Appropriations Committee Chairman Robert Byrd -LRB- D. , W.Va . -RRB- even added report language listing $ 49.4 million in projects he wants in the budget next year . 
Mobil 's latest move could signal the beginning of further reductions by other oil companies in their domestic oil-producing operations . 
The report says that `` the restructuring will take place over a two-year period and will principally involve the transfer and termination of employees in our U.S. operations . '' 
Yesterday , Mobil said domestic exploration and production operations had a $ 16 million loss in the third quarter , while comparable foreign operations earned $ 234 million . 
Daily output is expected to decline by at least another 500,000 barrels next year . 
One Mobil executive said that the $ 40 million charge related to the action indicates `` a substantial '' number of people will be involved . 
Some will likely be offered severance packages while others will be transferred to overseas operations . 
Needless to say , he was talking about RICO . 
With its recently revised guidelines for RICO , Justice makes it clear that the law currently holds too many incentives for abuse by prosecutors . 
Justice is attempting to avoid a replay of these tactics . 
This amounts to an extraordinary repudiation of the tenure of New York mayoral candidate and former U.S. Attorney Rudolph Giuliani , who was more inclined to gathering scalps than understanding markets . 
This follows earlier new guidelines from the Tax Division prohibiting Princeton\/Newport-like tax cases from masquerading as RICO cases . 
It told prosecutors not to seek forfeitures if there are `` less intrusive '' alternatives , such as bonds , and in any case not to seek forfeitures `` disproportionate to the defendant 's crime . '' 
It was forced into liquidation before trial when investors yanked their funds after the government demanded a huge pre-trial asset forfeiture . 
Princeton\/Newport investors , including McKinsey & Co. and the Harvard endowment , made the rational decision to withdraw their money ; for the firm , the liquidation was sentence first , verdict later . 
; for the firm , the liquidation was sentence first , verdict later . 
Prosecutors wanted $ 23.8 million in forfeiture for alleged tax fraud of some $ 400,000 . 
Part of Drexel 's plea was to cut Mr. Milken loose . 
Justice has finally recognized its employees ' abuses , thanks largely to the demands for reform by former U.S. attorney in Washington Joseph diGenova , who wants to salvage RICO for real criminals . 
Judge Sentelle , of the appeals court in Washington , made this point at a Cato Institute conference last week in a remarkable speech titled , `` RICO : The Monster That Ate Jurisprudence . '' 
He said ours is supposed to be `` a government of laws not of men , '' and yet RICO defenders `` tell us that we should rely on prosecutorial discretion to protect against overbreadth of RICO . '' 
No prosecutorial guidelines , observed or unobserved , limit civil RICO cases by plaintiffs for damages . 
We suspect that Justice will some day agree that only the complete repeal of RICO can guarantee an end to injustices in its name . 
It was promoted on cable services , including MTV , Nick at Night and VH-1 , and premiered as the No. 22-rated show for the week . 
In figures released yesterday by A.C. Nielsen Co . `` Teddy Z , '' produced by the television unit of Columbia Pictures Entertainment Inc. , was in 37th place . 
Worse , every week it suffers audience drop-off from `` Murphy Brown '' and viewership on CBS picks up again once `` Teddy Z '' is over and is followed by `` Designing Women . '' 
Those viewers find the show confusing . 
At its strongest , the Treasury 's benchmark 30-year bond rose more than a point , or more than $ 10 for each $ 1,000 face amount . 
A slowing economy and the implication of lower inflation and interest rates tend to bolster bond prices . 
Taken together , the auto-sales and durable-goods reports confirmed perceptions that the economy is bogging down . 
Now bond investors are looking toward next week 's report from national purchasing managers and the government 's October employment report as potentially prompting the Fed to lower rates . 
Although dealers said investors are becoming more bearish toward the dollar in the wake of the stock market 's recent troubles and as the U.S. economy weakens , the dollar ended down only modestly . 
The Treasury 's benchmark 30-year bond gained nearly half a point , or about $ 5 for each $ 1,000 face amount . 
The yield on the issue slipped to 7.89 % . 
In late New York trading the currency was quoted at 1.8355 marks and 141.45 yen , compared with 1.8470 marks and 141.90 yen Monday . 
Judge Robert -LRB- `` Maximum Bob '' -RRB- Potter sentenced Jim Bakker to 45 years in the big house yesterday , while a Beverly Hills judge tucked away Zsa Zsa Gabor for three days , plus 120 hours of work with homeless women . 
Mr. Bakker said he was guilty of sin but not fraud . 
Maybe she could drop by at the Metropolitan Opera and bring along what she forgot , a little charm , a few smidgins of thespian skills and a nice wig . 
It is n't every day that we hear a Violetta who can sing the first act 's high-flying music with all the little notes perfectly pitched and neatly stitched together . 
Never once did she gasp for air or mop her brow . 
She was as cool as a cucumber . 
There are times when she must show a little emotion . 
She has TB , after all , and a weak-kneed lover ; and though a successful courtesan , she is just about overdrawn at the bank . 
Just when Ms. Gruberova sat down away from her guests to cough in private , her salon began sliding around the stage ; her country hideaway also has a very active set of drapes . 
; her country hideaway also has a very active set of drapes . 
This is the most moving `` Traviata '' I 've ever seen . 
If a strike ever hits the Met , the company can still sell tickets to his `` Boheme '' and `` Turandot '' and boom out recordings -LRB- of another era -RRB- . 
Last week 's discerning audience gave a bigger hand to a greenhouse than to the tenor Neil Shicoff , who sang an aria inside it . 
Inexplicably costumed as a rabbinical student , tottering around on lifts , Mr. Shicoff hardly seemed the fellow to catch a fancy cocotte 's eye . 
Not nearly in his best form , the tenor made dullish sounds along with his usual clumsy hand gestures . 
Decades earlier , Maria Callas sang the Dallas staging that introduced the flashback idea . 
In an invention that drives Verdi purists bananas , Violetta lies dying in bed during the prelude , rising deliriously when then she remembers the great parties she used to throw . 
The entire opera is her dream . 
Once she did so , the big-souled German maestro with the shaky nerves who so often cancels offered a limpid , flowing performance that in its unswagged and unswaggering approach was totally at odds with the staging . 
In any event , Ms. Gruberova barely ventilated Violetta 's anguish in her long meeting with Wolfgang Brendel , who as Germont seemed fairly desperate trying to inject an Italianate lilt into his heavy , teutonic baritone . 
`` Di Provenza '' was n't much of an advertisement for sunny , southern France . 
Perhaps Mr. Kleiber could let him substitute one of the songs about dead children and dark nights from Mahler 's `` Kindertotenlieder . '' 
Well , they can now go and audition there . 
Common sense suggests that people who play for a company that charges about half what those houses do for a ticket are not in the same market . 
As the Met discovered years ago following a belated December opening , it is nearly impossible to recapture subscribers once they have had time to ponder their entertainment choices . 
Each of them contributed a section at the behest of Verdi , who was nearly driven to his own early grave by the troublesome arrangements . 
For all that , the piece landed unperformed in a dusty archive after Bologna refused to supply a chorus and orchestra . 
The surprising discovery of the evening at Fisher was the high standard achieved by some of his now-obscure colleagues , notably Raimondo Boucheron . 
His melodious `` Confutatis '' was smoothly sung by bass Brian Matthews . 
She was in her most radiant , expressive voice . 
Maybe she could step across the plaza to the Met -- where she has still to make her debut -- and help out her Czech compatriot by singing the slow parts of `` Traviata . '' 
: It awarded the largest cash prize of any film festival to young and first-time film makers . 
Vincent Tolentino , a correspondent for the French magazine Telerama , says of the recently ended Tokyo festival : `` No one makes deals ... and most of the films have been seen before at other festivals . '' 
The law could redound to the advantage of brokers and banks , who incur high administrative costs to deliver securities to investors . 
`` This is the first time , if we decide to do so , for Japan to extend aid of this kind to Eastern European countries , '' the spokesman said . 
He said Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu also is studying the possibility of a visit to the two Eastern bloc nations and to Western Europe next January . 
`` I demand the utmost severity in the fight against drug traffickers , '' President Mitterrand said after the meeting in Valladolid , Spain . 
He added : `` Banks must open their books . '' 
Under an agreement signed last June , the Soviets will help Iran in oil exploration and other areas in return for exports of Iranian natural gas . 
A Toto spokesman said the toilet not only tests blood pressure , pulse and urine , it also stores the data for up to 130 days . 
`` It will be very expensive , '' the spokesman warned . 
`` The price can not be less than $ 7,000 . '' 
Those employees are suspected of illegally gaining an estimated $ 376.8 million , the prosecutor was quoted as saying by the Excelsior news service . 
He added that federal agents hope to recover at least half that amount . 
`` The decision to distribute machetes at this time , which could be used as weapons , is under review , '' said a U.N. spokesman ... . 
Cray said it earned $ 30.6 million , or $ 1.04 a share , up 35 % from $ 22.6 million , or 73 cents a share , a year ago . 
Revenue gained 45 % to $ 210.2 million from $ 145.2 million . 
Revenue was $ 454.6 million , a 6.9 % gain from $ 425.4 million . 
In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday , Cray closed down $ 1.125 at $ 34.25 . 
Marcello Gumucio , president , said the company `` did well in the quarter as far as revenues and earnings are concerned , and not quite as well in terms of signing orders . '' 
He said 1989 's net income could be 11 % to 13 % of revenue , which , assuming current expectations , would be 40 % to 45 % below 1988 's level . 
Last year , Cray earned $ 156.6 million , or $ 4.99 a share , on revenue of $ 756.3 million . 
Noting that Cray does n't have a low-end supercomputer to compete with the likes of Convex Computer Corp. and International Business Machines Corp. , Mr. Luber said such a machine would be necessary `` to get things back on line here . '' 
Cray has indicated it will decide on whether to build such a machine before year end . 
Sales rose to $ 2.45 billion from $ 2.2 billion . 
Eprex , used by dialysis patients who are anemic , and Prepulsid , a gastro-intestinal drug , did well overseas , he said . 
The company cited softness in the retail health and beauty aids category , `` as well as the intense competition in the company 's sanitary protection product line . '' 
For last year 's fourth quarter , the company 's tax rate was less than 20 % , he said . 
Four of those insiders sold more than half their holdings . 
In June , the company agreed to settle for $ 18 million several lawsuits related to its sales practices , without admitting or denying the charges . 
An investigation by U.S. Postal inspectors is continuing . 
Net income rose to 83 cents a share from 72 cents a share the year-earlier period . 
He cut his rating to a short-term hold from above-average performer and reduced his 1990 earnings estimate . 
Mr. Falco continues to rank the stock a longterm buy . 
The stock fell 75 cents . 
The most recent sales do n't appear to be option-related , he said . 
Mr. Miles 's newly purchased shares are now worth $ 1,068,000 , based on Philip Morris 's closing price of $ 44.50 , up 62.5 cents , in composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange yesterday . 
John J. Crabb sold 4,500 shares for $ 11.13 each , leaving himself with a stake of 500 shares . 
He received $ 50,085 . 
Peter Kutney sold 5,000 shares , all of his holdings , for $ 11.38 a share , or $ 56,900 . 
Pegasus Gold `` has been on a lot of recommended lists as a junior growth company stepping into the big leagues , '' says Marty McNeill , metals analyst at Dominick & Dominick , a New York investment firm . 
`` It 's a good company , and growing ; there 's nothing that would warrant that it be sold . '' 
; there 's nothing that would warrant that it be sold . '' 
Now , only God exists as a matter of absolute necessity ; it is built into His nature . 
; it is built into His nature . 
Are n't we , after all , the inevitable culmination of that stately pageant called evolution ? 
Star lecturer at Harvard , author of numerous popular books on science , and scourge of the creationist lobby , Mr. Gould is perhaps the world 's most eminent evolutionary theorist . 
For him , natural history is anything but a gradual , predictable march from primordial slime to human consciousness ; it is a careening , chaotic affair in which the emergence of a featherless biped was a one-in-a-million shot . 
; it is a careening , chaotic affair in which the emergence of a featherless biped was a one-in-a-million shot . 
The argument turns on the discovery in 1909 of an amazing fossil quarry high in the Canadian Rockies called the Burgess Shale . 
The received Darwinian wisdom of the day said that animals living so long ago must be simple in design , limited in scope and ancestral to contemporary species . 
By making clever inferences about how the squashed and distorted fossil remains corresponded to three-dimensional structures , this trio was able to piece together a series of wondrous beasties quite unlike anything currently on the planet . 
One was so fantastic in appearance , it was dubbed Hallucigenia . 
A good deal of the book is boring , particularly the endless allusions to high and pop culture and the frequent jokes festooning the text . 
These turns do not provide sufficient relief from sentences like , `` Most modern chelicerates have six uniramous appendages on the prosoma . '' 
Not long after the appearance of life , evidently , there was an explosive proliferation in the number of animal designs seen on the earth . 
'' So much for survival of the fittest . 
Our mammalian forerunners lucked out through the extraterrestrial impact that did in the dinosaurs because they were small , not smart . 
In one , birds are the dominant carnivores ; in another the seas abound with `` little penises . '' 
; in another the seas abound with `` little penises . '' 
; like an existentialist of old , he views our contingency as `` a source of both freedom and consequent moral responsibility . '' 
Surely at some other cosmic address a Gouldoid creature would have risen out of the ooze to explain why , paleontologically speaking , `` it is , indeed , a wonderful life . '' 
Critics have complained that the law unfairly strips defendants of assets before a jury determines they have committed a crime and that aggressive use of the forfeiture provisions can ruin corporate defendants or force them into unfavorable plea bargains . 
`` The impact , if there is any , will be impossible to judge ahead of time because the decision whether to use -LCB- racketeering charges -RCB- is made in individual cases '' by Justice Department officials in Washington , he said . 
The state had sought as much as $ 4.1 billion in relief , but yesterday the House approved a more general scaled-back measure calling for $ 2.85 billion in aid , the bulk of which would go to California , with an unspecified amount going to regions affected by Hurricane Hugo . 
A sales tax increase appears to be the fastest and easiest to raise funds in a hurry . 
According to the state department of finance , a one-penny increase in the state 's six-cent per dollar sales tax could raise $ 3 billion . 
`` If there 's an emergency and there are n't sufficient funds from elsewhere , I think the attitude will be supportive , '' said Kirk West , president of the California Chamber of Commerce . 
Since the late 1970s , California property owners have benefited from a tax rollback as a result of a state ballot initiative known as Proposition 13 . 
`` It 's possible , though not probable , '' that the state could get by with its existing resources and federal help , said Quentin Kopp , chairman of the state senate 's transportation committee . 
The uninsured subordinate lien bonds are n't rated , according to the lead underwriter . 
Ironically , the person who wants to run his or her own business is probably the active , results-oriented sort most likely to hate meeting the rules and record-keeping demands of federal , state and local regulators . 
Last week , Sen. Malcolm Wallop -LRB- R. , Wyo . -RRB- held hearings on a bill to strengthen an existing law designed to reduce regulatory hassles for small businesses . 
They concede that much of the government meddling that torments them is essential to the public good , and even to their own businesses . 
Mr. West cites the Federal Communications Commission and its standards for telecommunications equipment : `` They monitor product quality and prevent junk from flooding the market . '' 
: Architects complain about a host of building regulations , auto leasing companies about car insurance rules . 
Determining when handicapped access is required can be a nightmare for architects , says Mark Dooling , president of Dooling & Co. , a Newton , Mass. , architectural firm . 
There is such a maze of federal , state and local codes that `` building inspectors are backing away from interpreting them , '' Mr. Dooling says . 
`` It 's very costly and time-consuming , '' says Phil Rosen , a partner in Fleet & Leasing Management Inc. , a Boston car-leasing company . 
One senior executive at his firm spends nearly 20 % of his time on insurance , he says . 
The most onerous , many entrepreneurs say , is the record-keeping and filing required by tax authorities . 
Complying with environmental and workplace regulations runs a close second . 
Peter Gebhard , the company 's owner , says spending on regulatory paper work and the people to do it -- mostly to comply with federal , state and local environmental laws -- will rise almost 30 % this year to $ 100,000 . 
Mr. Gebhard adds that spending on environmental red tape amounts to between 6.5 % and 7.5 % of Impco 's total operating expenses . 
One state environmental regulator returned a report because `` it was n't heavy enough , it could n't have been correct , '' Mr. Maguire says . 
An employer leaves itself open to a great deal of liability if its employee manuals do n't reflect the most recent laws , he says . 
; you ca n't do it yourself , '' he adds . 
Yearly changes in federal benefit laws force small businesses to repeatedly re-evaluate and redesign existing plans . 
Alice Fixx , who runs her own public-relations concern in New York , says she has had to overhaul her pension and profit-sharing plans three times in the past three years . 
`` It does n't increase benefits , but it 's costly and time-consuming , '' Ms. Fixx says . 
Compliance added 15 % to 20 % to her accounting bill last year , she says . 
To justify their exempt status and avoid penalties , these businesses must show once a year that each and every transaction on which they did n't pay sales tax was a legitimate business expense . 
`` You need one person to just take care of sales tax , '' says Jennie Tong , executive vice president of Lee Liu & Tong Advertising Inc. , New York . 
Ms. Bogart , an acclaimed creator of deconstructed dramatic collages that tear into such sacred texts as Rodgers and Hammerstein 's `` South Pacific , '' is decidedly downtown . 
It was a predictable revival of her prize-winning off-Broadway anthology of Bertolt Brecht 's theoretical writings , called `` No Plays , No Poetry . '' 
Hers is a hand that will test the mettle of her audiences . 
Along the way there also are lots of romantic dalliances . 
Despite the absence of samovars -LRB- and a tendency to turn the furniture upside down -RRB- , the production is rich in Russian ennui voiced by languorous folk sporting beige linen and rumpled cotton , with boaters and fishing poles aplenty . 
The director 's attempt to force some Brechtian distance between her actors and their characters frequently backfires with performances that are unduly mannered . 
Not only do the actors stand outside their characters and make it clear they are at odds with them , but they often literally stand on their heads . 
There are moments in this `` Summerfolk '' when the characters populating the vast multilevel country house -LRB- which looks like a parody of Frank Lloyd Wright and is designed by Victoria Petrovich -RRB- spout philosophic bon mots with the self-conscious rat-a-tat-tat pacing of `` Laugh In . '' 
`` Talk hurts from where it spurts , '' one of them says . 
The clash of ideologies survives this treatment , but the nuance and richness of Gorky 's individual characters have vanished in the scuffle . 
As for the humor that Gorky 's text provides , when repainted in such broad strokes -LRB- particularly by the lesser members of the ensemble -RRB- it looks and sounds forced . 
The danger that Ms. Bogart seems to be courting here is one of obfuscation rather than rejuvenation , a vision so at odds with the playwright 's that the two points of view nullify , rather than illuminate , each other . 
Ed Shea and Barbara Orson never find a real reason for their love affair as the foolish , idealistic young Vass and the tirelessly humanitarian doctor Maria Lvovna . 
Cynthia Strickland as the long-suffering Varvara is a tiresome whiner , not the inspirational counterrevolutionary Gorky intended . 
Better to look in the corners for performances that inspire or amuse . 
Janice Duclos , in addition to possessing one of the evening 's more impressive vocal instruments , brings an unsuspected comedic touch to her role of Olga , everybody 's favorite mom . 
Marni Rice plays the maid with so much edge as to steal her two scenes . 
It was the start of a boom in unfriendly , even ungentlemanly , mergers . 
ESB said it was given only a three-hour advance warning on a `` take it or leave it '' basis from Inco , as the Toronto company is called . 
Within a few days in July , Inco raised its bid to $ 36 and United matched it . 
On a single day Inco lifted its offer to $ 38 and then to $ 41 , equal to $ 225.5 million . 
United met the $ 38 but then withdrew . 
The new gritty game became a money maker for Wall Street 's once austere old-name houses . 
Inco paid Morgan an advisory fee of about $ 250,000 , a paltry figure by today 's measures . 
Early this year Morgan and three other investment houses each received $ 25 million in advisory fees from Kohlberg Kravis & Roberts in its $ 25 billion friendly buy-out of RJR Nabisco . 
Analysts had been projecting fully diluted earnings in the third quarter in the range of about $ 1.30 a share . 
Some $ 380 million of the troubled assets is repossessed real estate , a 55.6 % surge from the $ 244.2 million of repossesed property HomeFed held a year ago . 
HomeFed has $ 17.9 billion of assets . 
It said about half are in California , with the rest scattered across the country . 
It said sales of such properties were slower than anticipated in the third quarter , but it expects sales to pick up in the rest of the year . 
It said its real-estate operations earned a record $ 21.7 million , more than double year-earlier real estate profit of $ 9 million . 
For the nine months , HomeFed earned $ 82.5 million , or $ 3.52 a fully diluted share , a 4.3 % increase from year-earlier net income of $ 79.1 million , or $ 3.43 a fully diluted share . 
On one-year CDs of $ 50,000 and less , the average slid to 8.02 % from 8.06 % . 
`` It 's unclear how much rates can fall and how soon . '' 
Long-term CDs declined just a fraction . 
The average yield on both two-year CDs and five-year CDs was 7.98 % . 
The average yield on six-month broker-sold CDs rose to 8.29 % from 8.05 % and on one-year CDs the average yield rose to 8.30 % from 8.09 % . 
The brokerage firms , which negotiate rates with the banks and thrifts whose CDs they sell , generally feel they have to offer clients more than they can get on T-bills or from banks and thrifts directly . 
Some jumbos posted fractional changes in average yields this week , both up and down . 
The average yield on threemonth jumbos rose to 8.00 % from 7.96 % , while the two-year average fell by the same amount to 7.89 % . 
Six-month and oneyear yields were unchanged , on average . 
`` It 's very easily influenced by changes in the stock market and the junk bond market . '' 
In California , Bank of America dropped the yield on both six-month and one-year `` savings '' CDs to 8.33 % from 8.61 % . 
During the summer , Wang executives had said they might seek outside investment . 
Sales increased 5.5 % to $ 9.81 billion from $ 9.3 billion . 
When it did a half-hour into the session , it was priced at $ 150 a share , down more than $ 28 from Monday 's close . 
It sank further to as low as $ 145 , but a big rally developed in the last half hour , pushing the stock back up to close at $ 170 , down just $ 8.375 from Monday . 
In the process , 4.9 million shares traded , making UAL the second most active issue on the Big Board . 
Added Mr. Jacobson , `` There were some pretty bad losses in the stock . '' 
A subsequent rally in UAL helped the staggering stock market stage an astonishing recovery from an 80-point deficit to finish only slightly below Monday 's close . 
The news told them it would be a while longer before UAL resumed trading like a regular airline stock after months of gyrations . 
When Mr. Jacobson walked into the office at 7:30 a.m. EDT , he announced : `` OK , buckle up . '' 
Already entered in the Big Board 's computers and transmitted to their post were sell orders for 65,000 UAL shares . 
UAL , which closed on the Big Board Monday at $ 178.375 a share , traded in the third market afterward as low as $ 158 a share . 
There were rumors of $ 148-a-share trades . 
That range was quickly narrowed to $ 145 to $ 155 , although traders surrounding the post were told that $ 148 to $ 150 would be the likely target . 
There was `` selling pressure from everyone , '' said one trader . 
On that earlier day , the stock 's trading was halted at a critical time so the specialists could catch their breath . 
Not yesterday . 
About 30 floor traders crammed near the UAL post most of the day , and probably hundreds more came and went -- a `` seething mass , '' as one trader described it . 
The 4.9 million-share volume flowing through the Jacobson specialist operation was about five times normal for the stock . 
With 15 seconds of trading to go , Mr. Jacobson , with what voice he had left , announced to the trading mob : `` We 're going to trade one price on the bell . '' 
That meant no trading would occur in the final seconds , as a way of making sure that last-second orders are n't subjected to a sudden price swing that would upset customers . 
In Chicago , a UAL spokesman , `` by way of policy , '' declined to comment on the company 's stock or the specialists ' performance . 
Said Earl Ellis , a Jacobson partner who got involved in the UAL action , `` It all starts all over again '' today . 
Of 1,224 companies surveyed , 31 % expect to cut spending on plant equipment and machinery , while only 28 % plan to spend more . 
Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson views the high rates as his chief weapon against inflation , which was ignited by tax cuts and loose credit policies in 1986 and 1987 . 
Officials fear that any loosening this year could rekindle inflation or further weaken the pound against other major currencies . 
The latest government figures said retail prices in September were up 7.6 % from a year earlier . 
David Owen , U.K. economist with Kleinwort Benson Group , reduced his growth forecast for 1990 to 0.7 % from 1.2 % and termed the risk of recession next year `` quite high . '' 
Compared with the major economies on the Continent , the U.K. faces both higher inflation and lower growth in the next several months . 
The resulting # 1.9 billion merchandise trade deficit was partly offset by an assumed surplus of # 300 million in so-called invisible items , which include income from investments , services and official transfers . 
Increasingly , economists say the big deficit reflects the slipping competitive position of British industry . 
`` When the country gets wealthier , we tend to buy high-quality imports , '' Mr. Owen said . 
`` Just imagine how exciting that would be if that 's your horse , '' he says . 
`` It 's a big-risk business , '' warns Charles C. Mihalek , a Lexington attorney and former Kentucky state securities commissioner . 
`` You have to go into it firmly believing that it 's the kind of investment where you can lose everything . '' 
Consider Spendthrift Farm , a prominent Lexington horse farm that went public in 1983 but hit hard times and filed for bankruptcy-court protection last year . 
A group of investors recently bought the remaining assets of Spendthrift , hoping to rebuild it . 
One big problem has been the thoroughbred racehorse market . 
From 1974 to 1984 , prices for the best yearlings at the summer sales rose 918 % to an average of $ 544,681 . 
Since then , prices have slumped , to an average of $ 395,374 this summer . 
Even while they move outside their traditional tony circle , racehorse owners still try to capitalize on the elan of the sport . 
Glossy brochures circulated at racetracks gush about the limelight of the winner 's circle and high-society schmoozing . 
One handout promises : `` Pedigrees , parties , post times , parimutuels and pageantry . '' 
For starters , racehorse buyers have to remember the basic problem of such ventures : These beasts do n't come with warranties . 
Katherine Voss , a veteran trainer at the Laurel , Md. , track , offers neophytes a sobering tour of a horse barn , noting that only three of about a dozen horses have won sizable purses . 
`` You can see the highs and lows of the business all under one roof , '' she tells the group . 
`` There are n't too many winners . '' 
Some badly managed partnerships have burned investors , sometimes after they received advice from industry `` consultants . '' 
`` The industry is based on individual honesty , '' says Cap Hershey , a Lexington horse farmer and one of the investors who bought Spendthrift . 
At the low end , investors can spend $ 15,000 or more to own a racehorse in partnership with others . 
At a yearling sale , a buyer can go solo and get a horse for a few thousand dollars . 
; on average , it costs $ 25,000 a year to raise a horse . 
The company 's quarterly dividend had been 10 cents a share since April 30 , 1988 . 
Buell recently said it would incur an aftertax charge of about $ 3.6 million in its fourth quarter ending Tuesday , in connection with the sale and discontinuance of several lines at a plant . 
The trial had been postponed to allow Dunkin ' Donuts to seek alternatives to DD Acquisition 's offer . 
Sales fell 1.5 % to $ 884 million from $ 897.2 million . 
Power generation had higher sales but lower earnings ; the company cited factors including work on certain low profit-margin contracts from previous years . 
Last year 's results reflected a gain of $ 28.2 million on disposition of assets and a $ 165 million pretax provision mainly from costs of completing certain waste-to-energy and other power plants . 
Axa would also maintain Farmers ' relationships with the insurance exchanges that it manages . 
Axa has agreed to acquire Farmers from Sir James 's investment vehicle , Hoylake Investments Ltd. , for $ 4.5 billion plus a $ 1 billion investment in Hoylake . 
Hearings have n't yet been set in Texas , Ohio and Kansas . 
California 's insurance commissioner does n't hold hearings on acquisition applications . 
He said Mr. Denlea would be a member of the top management team of the Axa-Midi group of companies , and would `` help define policies and strategies of the group . '' 
Mr. Bebear contended that the tax cost to the exchanges under the revised structure would be about $ 8 million a year , which he described as `` peanuts . 
The company , which now holds a 34 % stake in the venture , has indicated that it intends to retain at least a 20 % stake long term . 
A 20 % stake would allow Honeywell to include Yamatake earnings in its results . 
The distribution represents available cash flow from the partnership between Aug. 1 and Oct. 31 . 
It is payable Nov. 30 to units of record Oct. 31 . 
The bank reported net income of C$ 389 million for the nine months ended July 31 . 
The bank said the increase in loan-loss provisions wo n't affect the payment of dividends . 
Excluding Mexico , reserves equal 95 % of LDC exposure . 
The latest results include a gain of $ 4.2 million , or eight cents a share , on the sale of television stations in Oklahoma City and Flint , Mich . 
That division 's revenue rose 2.3 % to $ 472.5 million from $ 461.9 million in the year-ago period . 
The natural resources development concern said proceeds will be used to repay long-term debt , which stood at 598 million Canadian dollars -LRB- US$ 510.6 million -RRB- at the end of 1988 . 
The shares will be priced in early November , she said . 
The company attacked the government 's allegations as `` reckless and baseless mudslinging , '' and said its management `` promptly and accurately reported '' to the Pentagon all relevant information about billing practices . 
A hearing is scheduled on the issue today . 
GE pleaded guilty and paid a fine of more than $ 1 million in the Minuteman case , which involved some of the same individuals and operations that are at the center of the dispute in the Philadelphia court . 
When GE finally disclosed the problems , prosecutors contend that Mr. Orr `` was erroneously informed that the -LCB- suspected -RCB- practices had only just been discovered '' by GE management . 
Subsequent meetings , initiated after the company and two of its units were briefly suspended from federal contracts , were held to familiarize Mr. Orr with the company 's self-policing procedures and to disclose additional information , according to GE . 
Details of the escrow agreement have n't been completed , the companies said . 
Tokyo 's winning streak came to an end , and stocks fell in Frankfurt and across Europe as well . 
At London 's close , the Dow Jones Industrial Average was 51.23 points lower at 2611.68 . 
On the life insurance side , Pearl Group finished 5 lower at 640 , and Sun Life dropped 15 to # 11.53 . 
Dealers said the market did n't react substantially to Ford Motor Co. 's disclosure to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission that it will seek 100 % of Jaguar 's shares outstanding when U.K. government share regulations are lifted at the end of next year . 
The index gained 99.14 points Monday . 
Such sentiment is being supported by word that a large amount of cash from investment trust funds is scheduled to enter the market later this week and in early November . 
Investors expect these shares will be targets of investment trust funds , which often buy small amounts spread across a wide range of issues . 
Sony was down 130 to 8,590 . 
TDK fell 120 to 5,960 , Fuji Photo Film declined 160 to 4,830 , and Fanuc dropped 160 to 7,440 . 
The DAX index fell 15.85 to end at 1507.37 . 
It jumped 7.5 Monday . 
Market participants say investors are not only licking their wounds following the turbulence last week , but they have also been made nervous by two events in West Germany . 
Traders say investors are worried that the CDU wo n't be able to hold office in federal elections at the end of 1990 . 
Mr. Steinkuehler said at a convention in West Berlin that the union has to prepare for `` a big fight '' to achieve its main goal of a 35-hour workweek , down from current 37-hour workweek . 
Daimler-Benz dropped 12.5 to 710.5 , Bayerische Motoren Werke dropped 10.5 to 543.5 , and Volkswagen lost 7.1 . 
Uneasiness about Wall Street was cited in several markets . 
The percentage change is since year-end . 
Extraordinary general meetings , to be held Nov. 28 , will decide the share exchange ratio . 
The office , an arm of the Treasury , said it does n't have data on the financial position of applicants and thus ca n't determine why blacks are rejected more often . 
They asked regulators to suggest new ways to force banks and thrifts to comply with anti-discrimination laws . 
The trade group official added : `` Certainly the federal government should take a hard look at it . '' 
`` We would be the first to admit that we have not devoted the necessary amount of emphasis over the past several years '' to developing examinations for discrimination , said Jonathan Fiechter , a top official of the Office of Thrift Supervision . 
The FDIC said it has issued five citations to banks over the past three years for discriminatory practices . 
The comptroller 's office also said that of 37,000 complaints it received since January 1987 , only 16 alleged racial discrimination in real estate lending . 
The agency investigated the complaints but no violations were cited . 
The Department of Housing and Urban Development has used testers to investigate discrimination in rental housing . 
Using testers could be controversial with financial institutions , but Mr. Grohl said the U.S. League of Savings Institutions had n't yet taken any position on the matter . 
Tele-Communications , the U.S. 's largest cable company , said it may seek other cable partners to join in its investment . 
Earlier this year , Time even discussed bringing Tele-Communications in as an investor in HBO , executives at both companies said . 
The purchase of the Showtime stake is `` a direct slap in our face , '' said one senior Time executive . 
Executives involved in plotting Time 's defense say it is now preparing a countersuit naming both Viacom and Tele-Communications as defendants . 
The executives say Time may seek to break up the transaction after it is consummated , or may seek constraints that would prevent Tele-Communications from dropping HBO in any of its cable systems in favor of Showtime . 
Jerome Kern , Tele-Communications ' chief outside counsel , said he was n't aware of Time 's legal plans . 
Tele-Communications controls close to 12 million cable subscribers , and Viacom has about one million . 
Time argues that in joining up with Tele-Communications , Viacom has potentially more power , particularly since Viacom also owns cable networks MTV , VH-1 and Nick at Nite . 
Ironically , Tele-Communications and Time have often worked closely in the cable business . 
Together , they control nearly 40 % of Turner Broadcasting Systems Inc. ; Tele-Communications has a 21.8 % stake , while Time Warner has a 17.8 % stake . 
Inc. ; Tele-Communications has a 21.8 % stake , while Time Warner has a 17.8 % stake . 
Each company worries that the other is becoming too powerful and too vertically integrated . 
Viacom accuses Time in its suit of refusing to carry Showtime or a sister service , The Movie Channel , on Time 's Manhattan Cable TV system , one of the nation 's largest urban systems . But yesterday , Manhattan Cable announced it will launch Showtime on Nov. 1 to over 230,000 subscribers . 
Yesterday , USAir Group Inc. , recently one of the industry 's stellar performers , posted a worse-than-expected $ 77.7 million net loss for the period . 
Airlines in 1989 `` came in like a bang and are going out like a whimper , '' said Kevin Murphy , an airline analyst at Morgan Stanley & Co . 
Now , many airline companies might become a lot less attractive as takeover targets on Wall Street . 
The downturn also raises questions about the carriers ' ambitious orders for new airplanes , which currently total $ 32.5 billion over the next three years . 
In recent weeks , airlines have cut numerous fares in leisure markets to try to win back customers . 
Others have tried to spruce up frequent-flier programs . 
Shortly before that , USAir had said its third-quarter results would be `` significantly lower '' than a year earlier . 
Its loss of $ 77.7 million , or $ 1.86 a share , contrasted with net of $ 68.5 million , or $ 1.58 a share , in the 1988 third quarter . Revenue rose only 3.3 % in the latest period , to $ 1.53 billion from $ 1.48 billion . 
Revenue rose only 3.3 % in the latest period , to $ 1.53 billion from $ 1.48 billion . 
Revenue rose 12 % to $ 4.75 billion from $ 4.22 billion . 
It ended at $ 40.125 , down $ 2.375 , in New York Stock Exchange composite trading . 
One airline executive , who declined to be identified , called the loss `` amazing . '' 
It said the industry 's domestic traffic was flat in the third quarter ; analysts say this was because hefty fare increases earlier in the year scared off many leisure travelers this summer . 
To try to combat the traffic slowdown , airlines started reducing fares ; average fares rose only 1.7 % in August , in contrast to increases of 16 % each in February and March . 
; average fares rose only 1.7 % in August , in contrast to increases of 16 % each in February and March . 
This summer , the industry introduced a `` kids fly free '' program , in which children were allowed to fly free if they were traveling with an adult . 
Airlines tried to restrict the program substantially by limiting the offer to certain days of the week , but it still was apparently used far more heavily than the airlines expected . 
One airline official said about three times as many free-travel coupons are being turned in as in previous years -- not surprisingly , as the airlines last year allowed many travelers to build up mileage at triple the normal rate . 
Fuel costs were up 10 % in the third quarter . 
Labor costs , which leveled off in the past few years because of lower pay scales for newer employees , are on the upswing again at many carriers . 
`` We can not quantify the total adverse effects of Hugo , '' said Edwin Colodny , chairman and president of USAir Group . 
Airline Economics Inc. , an aviation consulting firm , is projecting an industrywide operating profit of $ 2.5 billion for 1989 , compared with earlier forecasts of $ 3 billion to $ 3.5 billion . 
As for 1990 , the firm predicts that profit will slip to between $ 1 billion and $ 1.5 billion . 
Why is he cashing in now ? 
General Electric plans to use the characters to plug its Miser light bulb . 
Teleflora will run TV ads at Valentine 's Day promoting its `` Snoopy 's Love Bouquet . '' 
Ralston Purina will promote its Chex Party Mix 's three new flavor packets named for Charlie Brown , Lucy and Linus . 
The yearlong schedule of festivities will be kicked off officially with a combination live and animation half-time special at the Super Bowl in January . 
`` There are too many people participating , '' says Al Ries , of Trout & Ries , a Greenwich , Conn. , marketing consulting firm . 
`` If you want to cut through the clutter , you have to make your message as distinct , sharp and individual as possible . 
`` We 're not interested in promoting every single product that comes along , '' Mr. Shore says . 
Yesterday , just a day after Mr. Roman announced he would leave to take a top post at American Express , WPP said Mr. Berry would return to take an international role at the parent company . 
New York-based RJR Nabisco would n't say what it spends annually , but industry executives say it will spend more than $ 140 million this year , down from about $ 200 million last year . 
Revenue increased more than 5 % to $ 283.2 million from $ 268.6 million . 
Pepsi said it will spend $ 10 million advertising the promotion . 
`` In essence we have made a decision to clear the decks , '' Mr. Bond told the meeting . 
Among these are the company 's Australian brewing assets , in the books at A$ 950 million but actually worth A$ 2.5 billion , he said . 
An investment in Chile 's telephone company is carried at US$ 300 million but really worth US$ 500 million , and the company 's property portfolio is undervalued by at least A$ 250 million , Mr. Bond said . 
Some of the oil interests already have been sold . 
Erich Krampe , president of the U.S. sales arm of West German auto maker Daimler Benz AG , predicted luxury-car sales will rise to 840,000 in 1990 from 830,000 this year primarily because of the new Japanese makes . 
Apogee said a subcontractor had severe cost overruns and was unable to fulfill the contract terms on its own , making it necessary for Apogee to advance cash to ensure completion of the project . 
The new tax , though a source of general resentment among Japanese taxpayers , replaced a higher commodities tax that applied to automobiles . 
Midsized cars accounted for the greatest growth in units , rising 62,872 units to 134,550 units , or 88 % . Minicar output more than tripled . 
Minicar output more than tripled . 
Manufacturers produced 46,835 of the vehicles -- which have engines of 500 cubic centimeters or less -- an increase of 31,777 units . 
Minitruck production fell 13 % to 94,243 units . 
The association spokesman said bus production has declined since January , but could n't offer an explanation for the fall . 
Half-year production was up 3.4 % compared with the same period a year earlier . 
The industrial average closed down only 3.69 points at 2659.22 . 
Volume was a tumultuous 4.9 million shares , or 22 % of the 21.8 million UAL shares outstanding . 
Traders estimated that Bear , Stearns bought more than 1 million shares . 
Their hope was that the catalyst would seek to oust the board in a solicitation of shareholder consents . 
I have never seen a case of incompetence shared by so many participants . '' 
The pilots are working under an expired contract , and the machinists contract expires next month . 
That gives them enormous leverage , including the threat of a strike to block any buy-out or recapitalization attempt they oppose . 
The pilots had been working on a buy-out bid between $ 225 and $ 240 a share , or $ 5.09 billion to $ 5.42 billion . 
`` We had a lot of people who threw in the towel today , '' said Earl Ellis , a partner in Benjamin Jacobson & Sons , a specialist in trading UAL stock on the Big Board . 
`` This deal is like a Roach Motel , '' he said . 
`` They check in , but they ca n't check out . '' 
So too , according to many reports , is British Airways PLC , despite its public withdrawal from the buy-out . 
The machinists are reviewing proposals they made in the past for recapitalizations that would pay a special shareholder dividend and give employees a minority stake . 
The company rejected those past proposals . 
A machinist official said that would depend on how much in concessions machinists would have to give in return for the majority stake . 
`` I 'm not interested , '' said Dallas investor Harold Simmons . 
A source close to Carl Icahn , a corporate raider who owns Trans World Airlines Inc. , said he has n't owned any UAL stock and is n't buying . 
The Los Angeles investor ca n't buy UAL stock , solicit shareholder consents or make a new offer unless he makes a formal offer of $ 300 a share or UAL accepts an offer below $ 300 . 
He said the recent decline in copper stocks was misleading in the face of a slowdown in manufacturing . 
Mr. Kaiser said traders could have picked up signals of an imminent price decline had they been watching the scrap metal markets , which became noticeably weaker two to three weeks ago . 
They might even step up sales in a falling market , he said , in an effort to maintain the flow of foreign exchange into their treasuries . 
When the market fell below that level on Monday and then yesterday could n't climb above that level , traders started selling out their positions . 
She said the market hit the $ 1.18 level at around 10 a.m. EDT where it encountered a large number of stop-loss orders . 
More stop-loss orders were touched off all the way down to below $ 1.14 , where modest buying was attracted . 
She thinks the next area of support for copper is in the $ 1.09 to $ 1.10 range . 
`` I believe that as soon as the selling abates somewhat we could see a rally back to the $ 1.20 region , '' she added . 
`` If the number is a little better , then copper will respond positively , if it is worse then more selling could ensue , '' she predicted . 
He said the normal ratio is five to six weeks . 
`` It takes three months to turn copper concentrate into cathodes , '' he said . 
If there is n't a recession , he said , `` we will be out of copper by the end of March . 
If there is a recession that will change the statistical situation . '' 
He thinks that without a recession copper prices could exceed a high of $ 1.65 a pound , which was reached last year . 
Prices for the U.S. benchmark West Texas Intermediate crude remained locked in a fairly narrow range before ending the session four cents lower at $ 19.72 a barrel for December delivery . 
Several analysts and brokers said the petroleum market was ready to rally after two days of price declines from profit-taking . 
The industrial average recovered to close only 3.69 points lower , but petroleum futures never shook off the chill . 
December gold was up $ 3.20 an ounce at $ 373.40 ; December silver gained 5.7 cents to $ 5.1950 an ounce . 
January platinum rose $ 2.30 an ounce to $ 488.60 . 
Mr. Kaiser said there were no fundamental factors moving these markets . 
He noted that two weeks ago there were rumors of Soviet sales of precious metals to finance grain purchases , but the sales do n't seem to have materialized . 
`` Gold still acts as a haven when uncertainty prevails in the financial markets as it did '' yesterday , she said . 
Mr. Kaiser noted that gold was more than 71 times the price of silver at the close yesterday , which is historically high . 
`` The high ratio reflects the fact that silver is still regarded as about a half-industrial metal and its price lagging relative to gold says that traders are expecting a weakening economy , '' he said . 
As for other export customers , the Soviet Union is n't expected to be back buying U.S. corn in significant amounts until early next year , he said . 
A number of commercial grain users buttressed that opinion yesterday by buying certain corn options for delivery in March , indicating to analysts that the commercial companies would use the options to hedge against expected corn sales in next year 's first quarter . 
The December contract opened just under Monday 's close , triggered some previously placed buy orders just above $ 1,030 a metric ton , pushing the price to $ 1,040 , and then encountered heavy selling by traders who buy and sell for their own accounts and by commercial interests . 
The contract settled at $ 1,014 a ton , off $ 13 . 
He said even though there was arbitrage buying in New York because of the weak dollar , cocoa fell to relentless pressure from bearish traders . 
The last time cocoa traded at prices as low as currently was in 1974 . 
Lakeland holders will have the option to request either stock or cash . 
Its stock fell 12.5 cents , to $ 2.125 , in American Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday . 
The cable and TV station company was an LBO of an LBO , a set of assets that were leveraged twice , enabling the blue-chip buy-out king Henry Kravis in 1987 to take more than $ 1 billion of cash out of the com - pany . 
KKR loaded up the cable and television company with debt in an 1985 buy-out , then later sold Storer 's cable operations at a fat profit . 
In this second LBO , KKR with one hand took more than $ 1 billion of cash out of the TV company 's assets and moved it into the Storer cable operations , making them more valuable in a 1988 sale . 
On Storer as a whole , KKR racked up compound annual returns of 60 % in the three years it owned Storer . 
Overall , Mr. Gillett 's holding company , Gillett Holdings , is heavily indebted and , except for its Vail Mountain resorts , is n't doing very well . 
It now is quietly circulating among creditors a preliminary plan to restructure debt . 
Mr. Kravis apparently thinks SCI TV can survive if lenders extend its debt payments until TV stations rise in value again , allowing SCI TV to sell assets to pay debt . 
The bonds of SCI TV now are being quoted at prices ranging from only five cents to about 60 cents on the dollar , according to R.D. Smith & Co. in New York , which trades distressed securities . 
They would both give part of their combined $ 50 million in common equity in SCI TV to holders of SCI TV 's $ 488 million of junk bonds , as a carrot to persuade them to accept new bonds that might reduce the value of their claims on the company . 
They contend that SCI TV 's equity now is worthless . 
They add that it is n't costing KKR anything to give up equity because of its big up-front cash profit on the buy-out , which they think contributed to SCI TV 's current problems . 
Kemper , the biggest holder of senior SCI TV bonds , has refused to join the bond-holders committee and is said to be reviewing its legal options . 
This could be the first major bankruptcy-law proceeding for KKR , he adds . 
`` The board has stated repeatedly that Rubbermaid should be independent , '' said Walter W. Williams , Rubbermaid president . 
Sales rose 9.7 % to $ 351.5 million from $ 320.4 million . 
At one point yesterday morning , the Dow was down 80.53 points . 
Declining issues swamped advancers , 1,222 to 382 . 
Takeover stock speculation and futures-related program trading drove the industrial average through wide ranges . 
`` People are fearful and sensitive . 
Everybody 's finger is one inch closer to the button . 
I have never had as many calls as I had this morning . 
As stocks and stock-index futures fell , a trading limit was hit in the S&P 500 stock futures pit . 
Under a post-1987 crash reform , the Chicago Mercantile Exchange would n't permit the December S&P futures to fall further than 12 points for a half hour . 
That caused a brief period of panic selling of stocks on the Big Board . 
They scooped up hundreds of S&P futures when the market needed it most . 
`` These guys wanted to do something to show how powerful they are . '' 
Officials at Goldman Sachs and Salomon Brothers were unavailable for comment . 
A UAL statement after the market closed Monday indicated that the airline 's board wanted to keep the company independent , effectively crushing hopes of an immediate buy-out . 
Five minutes before the Big Board opened , a preliminary price was flashed for UAL -- somewhere between 135 and 155 , a loss of as much as $ 43 a share from Monday 's close . 
Floor traders said there was a huge crowd around the Big Board specialist 's post where UAL trades . 
`` There was a seething mass of people , '' said one floor trader . 
Shortly after the UAL opening , program traders started selling stocks in the Major Market Index and S&P 500 index . 
All 20-stocks in the MMI except Exxon , General Motors and Sears were down $ 1 to $ 2 . 
Under the rules adopted by the Chicago Mercantile Exchange , the futures contract can not drop below the limit , but buyers can purchase futures . 
At this point , the Dow industrials were down 75.41 points and falling . 
In five minutes , the Dow industrials climbed almost 30 points . 
The big futures buying triggered stock-index buy programs that eventually trimmed the Dow 's loss to 31 points by 11 a.m . 
Then they completed the other side of the trade by buying futures , which abruptly halted the stock market 's decline as traders began to buy stocks . These firms sold stock into the big morning decline , but seeing the velocity of the market 's drop , held back on their offsetting purchases of futures until the S&P futures hit the trading limit . 
The combined buying rallied the Dow into a small gain , before closing at a slight loss . 
`` This is fun , '' asserted Susan Del Signore , head equity trader at Travelers Investment Management Co . 
She said she used the market 's wild swings to buy shares cheaply on the sell-off . 
On the comeback , Ms. Del Signore unloaded shares she has been aiming to get rid of . 
`` This market is eating away my youth , '' said Chung Lew , head equity trader at Kleinwort Benson North America Inc . 
Analysts said a big Japanese buy order was behind the rise . 
A Dow Jones spokesman said there were no corporate developments that would account for the activity . 
Other airline stocks fell in response to the UAL board 's decision to remain independent for now , including USAir Group , which separately reported a third-quarter loss of $ 1.86 a share compared with a year-ago profit . 
USAir fell 2 1\/2 to 40 . 
Texas Air , which owns Continental and Eastern airlines , lost 3\/8 to 13 1\/8 on the American Stock Exchange . 
Aluminum Co. of America dropped 1 1\/2 to 70 1\/4 , Phelps Dodge fell 4 to 59 7\/8 , Asarco lost 1 3\/8 to 31 3\/4 , Reynolds Metals slid 1 3\/8 to 50 3\/8 , Amax dropped 1 1\/8 to 21 5\/8 and Cyprus Minerals skidded 2 to 26 3\/4 . 
Alcan Aluminium was an exception , as it gained 1 3\/8 to 23 on two million shares . 
Its third-quarter earnings were higher than a year ago , but fell short of expectations . 
Other stocks in the Dow industrials that failed to benefit from the market 's rebound included United Technologies , which dropped 1 to 53 5\/8 , and Bethle hem Steel , which fell 1 to 16 7\/8 . 
The company denied the rumors and noted that it does n't own the building . 
Great Western Financial lost 1 1\/8 to 20 1\/2 on 1.6 million shares , Golden West Financial dropped 1 1\/4 to 28 1\/2 and H.F. Ahmanson dipped 5\/8 to 21 1\/4 . 
HomeFed plunged 3 5\/8 to 38 1\/2 ; its third-quarter earnings were down from a year ago . 
Both stocks have dividend yields of about 5 % and will go ex-dividend Wednesday . 
Donaldson , Lufkin & Jenrette placed the stock on its list of recommended issues . 
The company 's board approved the repurchase of up to 45 million common shares , or about 26 % of its shares outstanding , through the end of 1992 . 
Its third-quarter earnings more than doubled from a year earlier and exceeded analysts ' expectations . 
The action increases the annual dividend to $ 1.20 a share from $ 1.08 . 
Sales rose 2.9 % to $ 827.9 million from $ 804.3 million . 
Revenue edged up 3.4 % to $ 904 million from $ 874 million in last year 's third quarter . 
Revenue slid 7 % to $ 2.6 billion from $ 2.8 billion a year earlier . 
Fireman 's Fund said it has applied for an exemption from these rate rollbacks , and plans to defend its filing in hearings before the department . 
The Minneapolis computer systems and services concern said the offer is required under the senior note indenture as a result of Control Data 's recent sale of its disk drive subsidiary , Imprimis , to Seagate Technology Inc . 
The industrial average ended at 2659.22 , down 3.69 points . 
While they do n't expect the Fed to move right away , they say the case for lower rates is building . 
Municipal , mortgage-backed and investment-grade corporate bonds rose 1\/8 to 1\/2 point . 
According to a trader at Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. , the hardest hit junk bonds were those issued by RJR Holdings Capital Corp. , which are the easiest to sell . 
RJR 's 14.70 % bonds due 2007 fell 2 1\/2 points . 
`` While the stock market was falling , most -LCB- junk bond holders -RCB- were just watching it not knowing what to do , '' said Paul Suckow , director of fixed-income securities at Oppenheimer Management Corp . 
`` It was like driving down the highway watching a wreck . 
Everybody was rubber-necking . '' 
`` People are looking past supply to lower interest rates , but they 're also worried about being whipsawed by the volatility in the stock market . '' 
In when-issued trading , the notes were quoted at a price to yield 7.78 % . 
`` They are typically not active in two-year note auctions , but today 's participation could be viewed as lighter-than-normal . '' 
He said , `` Possibly , they 're waiting to buy at the -LRB- quarterly -RRB- refunding '' of government debt to be held next month by the Treasury . 
In when-issued trading , the Refcorp bonds were quoted at a price to yield 8.17 % . 
The latest 10-year Treasury was quoted at 100 22\/32 to yield 7.88 % , compared with 100 17\/32 to yield 7.9 % . 
The discount rate on three-month Treasury bills was quoted at 7.52 % for a bond-equivalent yield of 7.75 % , while the rate on six-month Treasury bills was quoted at 7.47 % for a yield of 7.85 % . 
Exxon Capital , long-rumored to be a potential debt issuer , offered $ 200 million of 10-year notes priced to yield 8.31 % . 
Citicorp issued $ 200 million of seven-year notes priced to yield 8.82 % , and Xerox priced $ 150 million of six-year notes to yield 8.85 % . 
This is in addition to IBM 's existing shelf registration under which $ 200 million in debt securities are available for issuance . 
The Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. issued a $ 500 million real estate mortgage investment conduit backed by its 8 1\/2 % securities . 
The deal by the Ford Motor Co. unit , priced Monday , was increased to $ 3.05 billion from $ 2.58 billion . 
Freddie Mac 9 % securities were at 97 21\/32 , up 5\/32 . 
The No. 111 4.6 % bond due 1998 ended on brokers ' screens at 95.22 , down 0.17 point , to yield 5.41 % . 
In the third quarter , BSB earned $ 2 million , up from $ 1.8 million a year earlier . 
A federal judge turned down the Chapter 11 petition . 
Mr. Waggoner could n't be reached . 
During the balloting , 26 members of the 500-seat Parliament voted against Krenz , a move considered unprecedented in the country 's 40-year history . 
The death toll rose to 63 . 
Israel provided the State Department with a list of recent alleged terrorist incidents attributed to forces controlled by Arafat , but the U.S. said it was n't satisfied that the incidents constituted terrorism . 
Bakker , who was immediately taken into custody , was convicted Oct. 5 by a federal court jury in Charlotte , N.C. , of fraud and conspiracy for diverting more than $ 3.7 million of ministry funds for personal use . 
In Warsaw , Shevardnadze held his first talks with the Solidarity-led government and vowed to maintain fuel supplies . 
Poland 's premier is to visit Moscow next month . 
The plan lacked a withdrawal timetable . 
The statement by Islamic Jihad , which holds at least two U.S. hostages , was accompanied by a photograph of Associated Press correspondent Terry Anderson , longest held of 18 Western hostages . 
The department 's Office of Thrift Supervision said that does n't necessarily mean thrifts are biased , but conceded that it does n't have data about applicants to determine why blacks are rejected more often . 
Company officials said 22 workers were missing and presumed dead . 
The ministers ordered a study on the strategic role of nuclear arms in Western Europe once Soviet conventional weapons are reduced in the East bloc . 
The Dow Jones industrials , down over 80 points in the morning , closed off 3.69 , at 2659.22 . 
Bond prices surged in reaction to the sell-off in stocks , then eased slightly during the afternoon recovery . 
The dollar finished lower . 
The stock closed down $ 8.375 , at $ 170 , after plunging $ 33 , to $ 145 . 
Jaguar has been discussing an alliance with GM , but Ford 's move may derail the talks . 
General Motors continued to be hardest hit . 
Excluding transportation items , orders rose 1.8 % . 
The repurchase , coupled with an earlier buyback , will reduce the firm 's shares outstanding by over 26 % . 
Sun posted a gain . 
Mobil , Shell and Chevron had declines . 
The results show Sears is struggling to attract shoppers . 
Three days later , before the new embryo had become implanted in the uterus , it was washed out of the mother mouse . 
The embryo had progressed only to a clump of eight identical cells . 
One cell was teased out , and its DNA extracted . 
A genetic probe showed the hemoglobin gene was missing , the researchers report in the medical journal Lancet . 
When the fertilized cells divide to eight cells , a single cell from each embryo can be tested for genetic defects . 
A healthy embryo can be picked for implantation and defective ones discarded . 
Phillips found and improved a yeast , `` Pichia pastoris , '' which made protein from natural gas-derived alcohol . 
Single-cell protein never panned out , and most companies abandoned such research . 
Like the bacteria used by genetic engineers , the yeast can take in human genes and churn out human proteins for medical use . 
Chiron Corp. , an Emeryville , Calif. , biotechnology firm , is seeing if the Phillips yeast can be used to make its genetically engineered human proteins . 
It relies on the fact that certain atoms give off detectable signals when subjected to an intense magnetic field . 
It 's the same phenomenon used in the new MRI -LRB- magnetic resonance imaging -RRB- scanners being used in hospitals in place of X-ray scans . 
The rapidly flashing return signals from excited hydrogen atoms in the blood give a `` stop-motion '' movie of the blood-filled vessel , -LRB- like the `` stop-motion '' seen in disco dancers when a strobe light is flashing -RRB- . 
The ultimate hope is that the technique could identify diseased vessels . 
The government contract required Meredith Relocation Corp. to purchase employees ' homes based on independent appraisals . 
The Justice Department alleges that the company `` engaged in various forms of misrepresentation '' with the goal of reducing the appraised value of employees ' homes . 
When such claims and litigation extend beyond the period , the syndicates can extend their accounting deadlines . 
Lloyd 's said there are currently 115 open account years involving 68 of the market 's roughly 360 syndicates . 
The procedure causes `` great uncertainty '' because an investor ca n't be sure of his or her individual liability , Lloyd 's said . 
Lloyd 's said it expects to enact new rules mandating the changes by year end . 
Revenue rose 5 % to $ 282 million from $ 268.3 million . 
The acquisition was completed in September . 
A spot honoring Bill White , the inventor of chewing gum , shows a woman trying to extricate her high-heeled shoe from a wad of gum . 
It shows a boy hurling rocks at a street lamp . 
Lake View had an operating deficit last year and has a poor reputation as an out-of-repair and crime-infested cemetery . 
`` We do n't want to be known as ambulance chasers , '' says William Garrison , Lake View 's president . 
`` We want people to think of Lake View as an historical park and educational experience ... . 
A pleasant place to come and spend a few hours . '' 
The oil magnate , who spent his later years passing out dimes to counter his penny-pinching image , `` is n't terribly amusing , '' says Barry Olson , creative director at Innis-Maggiore-Olson , Canton , Ohio , which is producing the ads . 
The overall London market , following Wall Street 's early nosedive , took a late beating . 
The Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100-Share Index plummeted 40.4 points to close at 2149.3 . 
Most of the buying was institutional , he added . 
U.S. investors will be permitted to buy the shares from EC investors 90 days later . 
`` There should be no great rush for investors to buy this . 
A lot of big European banks , mostly French , and Swiss arb accounts have been buying the stock just to flip it '' for a quick profit , he said . 
Ford did n't say how much it might offer for Jaguar , or when . 
A successful vote would put pressure on the British government to lift the restriction . 
He emphasized that the car maker only would bid for all of Jaguar under the right circumstances , and said `` those circumstances are n't right or possible at the moment . '' 
He predicted Ford officials will meet with Jaguar executives in the next week to outline their proposed offer . 
Sir John Egan , Jaguar 's chairman , so far has refused to meet with Ford officials , but he is believed to be willing to consider a specific bid proposal . 
A Ford takeover of Jaguar would `` have such implications for the balance of power in the 1990s that General Motors ca n't afford to step aside . 
They will have to throw their hat in the ring . '' 
The prospect of such a takeover fight has sent Jaguar shares soaring in recent weeks . 
U.S. takeover-stock speculators now own an estimated 25 % of Jaguar shares . 
In the U.S. , Jaguar 's American depositary receipts rose 12.5 cents in over-the-counter trading , to $ 11.25 . 
The company has expressed a preference for GM over Ford because GM has promised it would keep Jaguar independent . 
Its Opel line has a solid image and a recent string of highly successful new models , but it lacks Jaguar 's cachet . 
The sale of a portion of refining and marketing operations to Saudi Arabia helped alleviate the decline in earnings from that business . 
Revenue declined 3.4 % , to $ 8.4 billion from $ 8.7 billion . 
Per-share earnings declined to $ 1.10 a share from $ 1.12 a share , largely because of 21 million additional shares issued to retire $ 1 billion of debt . 
Revenue increased 11 % , to $ 2.73 billion from $ 2.46 billion . 
Chairman Robert McClements Jr. said the synthetic crude oil production from the facility rose even as the price for that oil increased . 
President Frank Richardson attributed the decline to lower natural gas prices , which countered higher earnings from the crude oil sector of Shell 's exploration and production operation . 
Shaving away some of the gain in that unit was a decline in U.S. oil production to 502,000 barrels of oil a day during the quarter from 527,000 barrels a day last year . 
Revenue declined $ 518 million , to $ 13.63 billion . 
Exploration and production profits slumped $ 40 million due to a provision for restructuring costs . 
Results included a $ 37 million gain from the sale of rights from Chevron 's investment in Amax Inc. , and a loss of $ 30 million from the sale of California oil and gas properties . 
Revenue rose 11 % , to $ 8 billion from $ 7.2 billion . 
Profits from U.S. exploration and production operations totaled $ 58 million , after the property sale loss , compared with a year-earlier $ 44 million loss that included a $ 16 million reorganization charge . 
Foreign earnings fell to $ 180 million from $ 182 million that included a $ 48 million gain from lower Canadian and Australian taxes . 
Chemical profits fell to $ 78 million from $ 98 million . 
Asarco said the gain reflected continued strength in prices for refined copper , lead and zinc , and higher equity earnings in Mexico Desarrollo Industrial Minero S.A. , a Mexican mining company in which Asarco has a 34 % stake . 
Asarco said it plans to shut down or sell its Rapatee coal mine and will end its involvement in southern Illinois strip mining . 
The company said that it is discussing a management-employee buy-out of the facility , but that it would stop mining and selling coal at year end when existing sales contracts expire , regardless of the outcome of those talks . 
He had been vice president in that office . 
C. Barr Schuler , 49 , vice president and chief financial officer , was named senior vice president of corporate development and acquisitions , a new post . 
Phillip J. Stuecker , 37 , vice president , secretary and treasurer , was named vice president of finance and chief financial officer . 
He was chairman and co-chief executive officer of Ladenburg , Thalmann & Co. until July , when he was named co-chairman of the investment-banking firm along with Howard L. Blum Jr. , who then became the sole chief executive . 
Mr. Bennett will continue as executive in charge of the North Carolina banking operation . 
During the past four months , retail sales have remained generally weak , advancing an average 0.2 % a month , the agency said . 
Officials said South Korean exports to Europe dropped 5.3 % to $ 3.02 billion while imports from there went up 17 % to $ 2.61 billion . 
Food production was ahead 1.7 % from June and 5.3 % from a year earlier . 
Output in the capital-goods sector was ahead 0.9 % on a monthly basis and 2.7 % year on year . 
The drug AZT , the only treatment currently on the market , claims only to help stop the spread of AIDS , not to cure it . 
In some of the experiments , it killed almost all the infected cells , the researchers said . 
They said they hoped to conduct tests on human patients in the U.S. by late next year . 
Japan does n't have enough AIDS patients to do significant experimentation in that country , they said . 
He said some infected cells may not have the relevant antigen and so would n't be killed even after exposure to the antibody . 
`` Our antibody specifically killed infected cells at a very low dose , but it can also kill other cells , '' said Dr. Yonehara . 
`` We do n't know the effect of our antibody on the human body . '' 
He said that when scientists from the two countries meet again in January in New Orleans , the Japanese will present at least three more drugs for human testing . 
Analysts said that 6.3 % level marked the poorest showing for any major British rights issue since the 1987 global stock market crash . 
`` Fund managers do n't like to have rights issues that do n't have an obvious reason . 
The obvious reason was -LRB- for British Air -RRB- to buy a stake in United Airlines . '' 
Underwriters led by Lazard Brothers & Co. will pick up the rest of the airline 's offer of four convertible capital bonds for every nine common shares . 
Lazard and other primary underwriters have reduced or eliminated their exposure by sub-underwriting the issue among U.K. institutional investors . 
`` The -LRB- paper -RRB- loss here is very small '' for these sub-underwriters , observed John Nelson , a Lazard managing director . 
`` From a cash flow point of view , British Airways is better off not being in United Airlines in the short term , '' said Andy Chambers , an analyst at Nomura Research Institute in London . 
Added another U.K. analyst : `` It gives them some cash in the back pocket for when they want to do something . '' 
In late trading on London 's Stock Exchange yesterday , the shares were off three pence at 194 pence . 
Some analysts speculated yesterday that the move has set off a board room split , which may lead to the resignation of Sir Colin Marshall , the carrier 's chief executive officer . 
`` The stories are rubbish , '' a British Air spokesman said . 
`` There is no difference of opinion between -LRB- Chairman -RRB- Lord King and Sir Colin on any aspect of company policy . 
The perception lingers , says an official at a major industrial company . 
`` Is there really a commitment or an illusion of activity ? '' he asks . 
`` I do n't think the Bush administration has done anything , '' he says . 
Recruiter Donald Clark does note an increase in searches for minority candidates . 
Many companies have set up machinery to assure workers a fair shake . 
Managers have `` some very broad discretion , '' says an official at Walt Disney Co . 
Unocal Corp. 's top management sets guidelines , but line supervisors slice up the merit pie . 
Hershey Foods Corp. strives for fairness by basing increases on quarterly reviews , annual appraisals and meetings with workers . 
At Chemfix Technology Inc. , each supervisor 's recommendation must be approved by the next boss up the line , and then sanctioned by a salary review committee . 
`` You ca n't hire competent Americans and say , ` Let them run only their own show , ' '' says Vladimir Pucik , who headed the study run with Egon Zehnder International , a search firm . 
`` Some Japanese executives are not yet ... comfortable about sharing strategic information with their American colleagues , '' the researchers say . 
Some consultants had insisted it would n't work . 
More than half the people surveyed for the Employee Benefit Research Institute say they would be willing and able to pick up most of the cost of the coverage . 
It 's the first time in the survey 's 15 years that the over-50 group came out ahead . 
Dedication runs high . 
`` I 've been recruiting every single day since it 's been identified that many AIDS patients come from the inner city , '' she says . 
She was the only staff physician available to treat AIDS patients last summer and now she has the help of only two doctors part time . 
`` I can tell you that nobody quit over it . 
No one panicked , '' a spokeswoman says . 
St. Paul Medical Center , also in Dallas , sees only a `` minimal erosion '' of support staff due to AIDS . 
Yale-New Haven Hospital sees no problem , says John Fenn , the chief of staff . 
The Association of Outplacement Consulting Firms says the industry 's volume has soared tenfold since 1980 , to $ 350 million a year ... . 
Triad Solutions says software producers had each invested hundreds of thousands of dollars in programs that now have no use . 
The left-of-center Social Democrats and the environmental Greens party posted mixed results . 
Under current law , such suspects are immune from prosecution for acts committed while not British citizens . 
China had refused to repatriate citizens who sneaked into Hong Kong illegally since early this month , when the colony allowed a dissident Chinese swimmer to flee to the U.S. . 
About 1,100 Chinese were awaiting repatriation yesterday . 
`` It is really unfortunate for human beings to be swayed by emotional discussions , '' the association said . 
The strikers voted to accept a series of management proposals that will give them a higher basic wage , better profit-sharing benefits and bigger annual bonuses . 
The spokesman said the vote at Sochaux is expected to be followed by a similar move at the company 's assembly plant at Mulhouse , where the number of strikers has been whittled down to 80 . 
A De Beers spokesman said yesterday the company had offered to increase the minimum wage by 18 % , while the union was demanding 26.6 % . 
Before the two parties resumed talks last week , De Beers offered 17 % and the union wanted 37.6 % . 
The association issued an advisory to its 1,685 member agencies following a report from the Foreign Ministry that picture-taking by Japanese tourists in earthquake-stricken areas was causing ill feeling among local residents ... . 
Since 1987 , 40 states have increased the speed limit on rural interstates . 
The article is , unfortunately , replete with outrageous distortions . 
This is just not so . 
The reality is that Bank finances are rock solid . 
As of June 30 , 1989 -- the day our past fiscal year came to a close -- only 4.1 % of the Bank 's portfolio was affected by arrears of over six months . 
This is an enviably low level . 
For the same fiscal year , by the way , the Bank 's net income was a robust $ 1.1 billion after provisions . 
This helps explain the triple-A rating enjoyed by our bonds and our ability to borrow $ 9.3 billion in fiscal 1989 on the most advantageous terms . 
Here , too , Mr. Roberts is way off the mark . 
The reality is that Bank loans have been linked to policy improvements for 40 years . 
By and large , these efforts have borne fruit . 
In my home region , Latin America , much of the existing infrastructure base -- an important building block for development -- has been financed by the World Bank . 
What are the facts on this type of lending ? 
The Bank has been making adjustment loans for 10 years . 
As their name implies , these operations are linked to far-reaching policy reforms that aim at helping borrowing countries get back on the growth path and at enhancing their credit-worthiness . 
Typically , these measures include reforms to downsize the role of government and parastatals in the economy , to open up inward-looking economies to international competition and to promote the development of a vigorous private sector . 
Over the years , it has helped encourage investments by entrepreneurs in the Third World through its extensive credit operations and through loans and investments by the International Finance Corp . 
Most recently , the Bank Group has been expanded to include the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency to stimulate direct foreign investment in developing countries by offering guarantees against noncommercial risk and advice to member countries on how to improve their business climate . 
The agency will withdraw from the production of nine food products , maintaining production of the two most important ones , corn and milk . 
Business leaders have long criticized the agency as a leading example of bureacratic waste . 
The agency wo n't allow mushrooms that were canned or packed in brine at any Chinese plant to enter the U.S. until `` satisfactory sanitation-control measures are implemented in China to prevent '' bacterial contamination . 
In subsequent tests , the agency found smaller-size cans from several Chinese plants to be similarly contaminated . 
A recall of the mushrooms blamed for the food poisoning began in early March . 
The shipments went mostly to food-service distributors that supply pizzerias and restaurants . 
He predicted the problem will be solved `` very soon . '' 
This is not the case . 
It was agreed at the outset of the Washington Drug Initiative that the FBI 's role would be to continue targeting the major drug traffickers through our National Drug Strategy . 
Through these investigations we do not focus on the street drug user , but rather we target and attack major drug-trafficking organizations that control a large segment of the drug market . 
The trial of Raful Edmond III in Washington serves to highlight our efforts in this area and the results achieved through our excellent working relationship with the Drug Enforcement Administration and the Metropolitan Police Department -LRB- MPD -RRB- . 
Prime will still manage Ramada 's domestic franchise system when the sale closes . 
The provision will help provide for tax liabilities that may stem from the restructuring . 
The announcement dispelled some Wall Street observers ' fears that New World might demand a huge premium for the delay , or scrap the deal entirely . 
`` They 'll go from being one of the most leveraged to one of the least leveraged casino companies , '' said Daniel Lee , an analyst with Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc . 
The dollar sagged against other major currencies in lethargic trading . 
A sinking economy depresses corporate earnings and thus stock prices , but it buoys bond prices as interest rates fall . 
Analysts say they think durable goods orders fell about 1 % , compared with a 3.9 % gain in August , and that growth in the third quarter slowed to about 2.3 % from the second quarter 's 2.5 % . 
`` Corporate profits are going to decrease faster than interest rates will fall , and the probability is that we 'll see negative economic growth in the fourth quarter . '' 
Volume on the New York Stock Exchange totaled 135.9 million shares . 
Declining issues on the Big Board were ahead of gainers , 1,012 to 501 . 
The yield on the Treasury 's benchmark 30-year bond slipped to 7.93 % . 
In late New York trading , the dollar was quoted at 1.8470 marks and 141.90 yen , compared with 1.8578 marks and 142.43 yen late Friday . 
The poll conducted by the Roper Organization interviewed 2,002 adults age 18 and older from July 7 to July 15 , 1989 . 
The margin of error for subgroups -- for example , married women with children at home -- would be larger . 
In 1986 , he settled an antitrust suit based on a taped telephone conversation of him proposing to Braniff 's president that they both raise fares 20 % . 
Perhaps the ethics of an industry 's leader filters down and is one of the factors that ultimately shapes consumer trust in that industry . 
The Kraft package included a specially published cookbook , a national free-standing insert in Sunday newspapers , and a Kraft `` advertorial '' section that ran in five Meredith magazines . 
Sources close to the company and ad agencies that work with Meredith said leading advertisers in consumer electronics , packaged goods and automotive products were among those negotiating ad packages with the Meredith group . 
The New York Times Co. 's Magazine Group earlier this year began offering advertisers extensive merchandising services built around buying ad pages in its Golf Digest magazine . 
Time Warner Inc. recently formed a `` synergy department '' to seek out ways to offer advertisers packages that could combine Time 's magazines with Warner products such as videocassettes . 
`` They may get passed up later when other publishers get their acts together , but for now they are the quickest offering the most extensive plan , '' he said . 
Advertisers now say ` Help us improve our image and extend our selling season . ' 
They are coming to publishers looking for ideas . 
Your article points out the traps people fall into , but when reviewing those traps one sees just about all of them could have been avoided . 
An accountant did not review the seller 's books before buying a business . 
`` I guess I was naive , '' he said . 
There is a more descriptive word to describe his lapse of common sense . 
They know all the answers and are not used to working more than 40 hours a week . 
The blue-collar worker who decides to start a business will listen and take advice . 
His humility gives him a much better chance of success . 
Their `` secret '' is that they gather a small group of advisers around them , listen to what they have to say , prepare a business plan and they are on their way . 
Successful American business owners do the same thing . 
Unfortunately , they are in the minority . 
It 's unfortunate so many must learn the hard way . 
I would view it as a net positive . 
The company can go about its business . 
They 're in the midst of a turnaround , '' she noted . 
`` We will not be commenting beyond the news release , '' the spokesman said . 
New York-based Hearst Corp. this fall plans to publish its first issue of 9 Months , a magazine for expectant mothers , and has already launched American Home . 
`` Entrepreneurs do n't rush to get into a stagnant or declining industry . '' 
For the first nine months , advertising pages in consumer magazines tracked by the Publishers Information Bureau increased 4 % from the same period last year , to 125,849 pages . 
Total magazine ad revenue for the same period increased 12 % to $ 4.6 billion . 
Though for some magazines categories a tough advertising climate persists , the industry in general is doing well compared with the newspaper industry . 
Within the same nine months , News Corp. closed down In Fashion , a once-promising young woman 's fashion magazine , Drake Publications Inc. has folded the long-troubled Venture magazine , and Lang Communications has announced Ms. magazine , after 17 years , will no longer carry advertising as of January . 
Lang is cutting costs and will attempt to operate the magazine with only subscription revenue . 
Mr. Lipstein 's absence from the meeting here raised speculation that the sale is in trouble . 
Mr. Lipstein said in a telephone interview from New York that the sale was proceeding as planned . 
`` The magazine is strong . 
It 's simply the right time to do what we are doing , '' Mr. Lipstein said . 
`` Publishers will find that some magazines have served their purpose and should die , '' he added . 
`` Magazines could , like other brands , find that they have only a limited life . '' 
More than ever , independent magazines and small publishing groups are being gobbled up by larger publishing groups , such as American Express Publishing Corp. , a unit of American Express Co. , and Conde Nast Publications Inc. , a unit of Advance Publications Inc. , which are consolidating in order to gain leverage with advertisers . 
Gerry Ritterman , president of New York-based Network Publishing Corp. , earlier this year sold his Soap Opera Digest magazine to Rupert Murdoch 's News Corp . 
Mr. Ritterman said that in the next six months he will take $ 50 million from the Soap Opera Digest sale to acquire new magazines . 
He would not reveal which magazines he is considering . 
`` They could be old or new , but they are magazines whose editorial quality needs to be improved . 
They will be the next hot magazines . 
Federal officials who had been probing the bank for months arranged a merger with European-American Bank & Trust , owned by six foreign banks , to avert the closedown . 
Massive withdrawals followed and there was a brief rescue attempt , with political undertones , including $ 1.77 billion in Federal Reserve loans . 
In June 1980 , Michele Sindona -- an Italian financier who in July 1972 had bought a 22 % block of Franklin 's stock from Loews Corp. , headed by Laurence A. Tisch -- was sentenced to 25 years in prison after being convicted of fraud and perjury . 
Included was the charge that Sindona siphoned $ 45 million of Franklin funds for his other ventures . 
Agreement , disapproval , boredom and distraction all can be inferred from the subjects ' twist of a dial . 
In another experiment , an elaborate chart with color codes reveals how people 's opinions were shaped -- and how they can be reshaped . 
He heads Litigation Sciences Inc. , the nation 's largest legal consulting firm , which is helping corporate America prepare for high-stakes litigation by predicting and shaping jurors ' reactions . 
In the process , Litigation Sciences is quietly but inexorably reshaping the world of law . 
Twenty-one of its workers are Ph. D.s . 
It advised the National Football League in its largely successful defense of antitrust charges by the United States Football League . 
Its 1988 revenue was $ 25 million . 
Mr. Vinson estimates the industry 's total revenues approach $ 200 million . 
In any high-stakes case , you can be sure that one side or the other -- or even both -- is using litigation consultants . 
Some lawyers and scholars see the social scientists ' vision of the American jury system as a far cry from the ideal presented in civics texts and memorialized on the movie screen . 
In the film classic `` Twelve Angry Men , '' the crucible of deliberations unmasks each juror 's bias and purges it from playing a role in the verdict . 
After hours of conflict and debate , that jury focuses on the facts with near-perfect objectivity . 
In real life , jurors may not always work that way , but some court observers question why they should n't be encouraged to do so rather than be programmed not to . 
He adds , `` The notion they try to sell is that juries do n't make decisions rationally . 
I find it troubling . '' 
`` It 's gotten to the point where if the case is large enough , it 's almost malpractice not to use them , '' he says . 
`` The affluent people and the corporations can buy it , the poor radicals -LCB- in political cases -RCB- get it free , and everybody in between is at a disadvantage , and that 's not the kind of system we want , '' says Amitai Etzioni , a prominent sociologist who teaches at George Washington University . 
The Harrisburg 7 trial in 1972 , in which Daniel Berrigan and others were charged with plotting anti-war-related violence , was a landmark . 
The researchers discovered that Episcopalians , Presbyterians , Methodists and fundamantalist Protestants were nearly always against the defendants ; the lawyers resolved to try to keep them off the jury . 
A more blue-collar panel became a second aim . 
Litigation consulting had arrived . 
The problem for IBM trial lawyers Thomas Barr and David Boies was how to make such a highly technical case understandable . 
As the trial progressed , they were eager to know if the jury was keeping up with them . 
Mr. Vinson , the professor , got the law bug and formed Litigation Sciences . 
-LRB- IBM won the case . -RRB- 
`` What you look for in a shadow jury is very much what you do when you give an opening argument to your wife or a friend and get some response to it . 
A shadow jury is a way to do that in a more systematic and organized way . '' 
Just before the actual closing arguments , the firm put the case to a vote of the five shadow jurors , each of whom was being paid $ 150 a day . 
The jurors , who did n't know which side had retained them , decided for Energy Transportation , and awarded $ 500 million in damages . 
The real jury returned days later with a $ 345 million victory for Energy Transportation . 
`` It 's often wrong , but it 's better than consulting an Indian rain dancer . '' 
Changing the outcome of the trial is what really matters . 
Someone with a master 's degree in classical arts who works in a deli would be ideal , Litigation Sciences advises . 
So would someone recently divorced or widowed . 
-LRB- Since Litigation Sciences generally represents the defense , its job is usually to help the lawyers identify and remove such people from the jury . -RRB- 
Such people also typically hold negative attitudes toward the physically handicapped , the poor , blacks and women . 
If a client needs prejudiced jurors , the firm will help find them . 
As Mr. Vinson explains it , `` We do n't control the facts . They are what they are . 
They are what they are . 
In our system of advocacy , the trial lawyer is duty bound to present the best case he possibly can . '' 
Logic plays a minimal role here . 
More important are what LSI calls `` psychological anchors '' -- a few focal points calculated to appeal to the jury on a gut level . 
By repeatedly drawing the jury 's attention to the arm , the defense lawyers planted doubt about the origin of the woman 's injuries . 
The ploy worked . 
The defense won . 
`` The ideal defense in a case involving an accident is to persuade the jurors to hold the accident victim responsible for his or her plight , '' Mr. Vinson has written . 
Studies show , the consultants say , that people absorb information better and remember it longer if they receive it visually . 
Computer-generated videos help . 
`` The average American watches seven hours of TV a day . 
They are very visually sophisticated , '' explains LSI graphics specialist Robert Seltzer . 
Supporters acknowledge that the process aims to manipulate , but they insist that the best trial lawyers have always employed similar tactics . 
`` They may not have been able to articulate it all , but they did it , '' says Stephen Gillers , a legal ethics expert at New York University law school . 
`` What you have here is intuition made manifest . '' 
Others point out that lawyers in small communities have always had a feel for public sentiment -- and used that to advantage . 
Litigation Sciences concedes that in one in 20 cases it was flatout wrong in its predictions . 
A few attorneys offer horror stories of jobs botched by consultants or of overpriced services -- as when one lawyer paid a consultant -LRB- not at Litigation Sciences -RRB- $ 70,000 to interview a jury after a big trial and later read more informative interviews with the same jurors in The American Lawyer magazine . 
`` The essence of being a trial lawyer is understanding how people of diverse backgrounds react to you and your presentation , '' says Barry Ostrager of Simpson Thacher & Bartlett , who recently won a huge case on behalf of insurers against Shell Oil Co . 
`` There 's no reason to believe that juries rule inappropriately , '' he says . 
What you then do is you make them think inappropriately . '' 
For complex cases , judges sometimes allow many more . 
-LRB- Some courts release names and addresses , and researchers can drive by houses , look up credit ratings , and even question neighbors . -RRB- 
Mr. Boies , the first lawyer to use Mr. Vinson 's services , cautions against courts ' allowing extensive jury questioning -LRB- known as voir dire -RRB- or giving out personal information about the jurors . 
`` The more extensive the voir dire , the easier you make it for that kind of research to be effective , and I do n't think courts should lend themselves to that , '' Mr. Boies says . 
The other involves the sale of about 35 of the company 's high-end workstations to the National Institutes of Health . 
`` No other -LCB- computer -RCB- vendor offers graphics performance that good for their price . '' 
This is a style of `` visual '' computing that provides three-dimensional , color models of everything from the inside of a house to the latest in women 's fashion . 
A year ago , Silicon Graphics introduced a model priced at $ 15,000 -- almost as cheap as mainstream workstations that do n't offer special graphics features . 
`` It 's pretty safe to assume we can bring the cost down of these systems by 30 % to 40 % a year , '' said Edward McCracken , the company 's chief executive officer . 
Revenue for its first quarter ended Sept. 30 was $ 86.4 million , a 95 % increase over the year-ago period . 
Profit was $ 5.2 million , compared with $ 1 million for the year-ago quarter . 
That something , whatever it is , could add as much as $ 100 to the $ 600 or so consumers now pay for lower-priced refrigerators . 
In one of the most sweeping environmental regulatory efforts to date -- involving products with an annual value of $ 135 billion in the U.S. alone -- the signatories agreed to curtail sharply the use of chlorofluorocarbons -LRB- CFCs -RRB- . 
World-wide production would be cut in half by 1998 . 
Not to be outdone , George Bush wants CFCs banished altogether by the year 2000 , a goal endorsed at an 80-nation U.N. environmental meeting in Helsinki in the spring . 
CFCs are the primary ingredient in a gas , often referred to by the Du Pont trade name Freon , which is compressed to liquid form to serve as the cooling agent in refrigeration and air-conditioning equipment . 
Gases containing CFCs are pumped into polyurethane to make the foam used in pillows , upholstery and insulation . 
Polyurethane foam is a highly efficient insulator , which accounts for why the walls of refrigerators and freezers can be thinner now than they were back in the days when they were insulated with glass fiber . 
They insist that CFCs are damaging the earth 's stratospheric ozone layer , which screens out some of the sun 's ultraviolet rays . 
`` In the kind of literature I read I come across countervailing opinions quite frequently . 
We ca n't afford to wait . '' 
Some atmospheric scientists think that even if CFCs were released into the atmosphere at an accelerating rate , the amount of ozone depletion would be only 10 % by the middle of the next century . 
It 's easy to get something comparable by simply moving to a higher altitude in the U.S. . 
The ozone layer is constantly in motion and thus very hard to measure . 
What scientists have known since the late 1970s is that there is a hole in the layer over Antarctica that expands or contracts from year to year . 
Mr. Teagan cites a list of substitutes but none , so far , match the nonflammable , nontoxic CFCs . 
Mr. Teagan points out as well that if the equipment designed to get along without CFCs is less efficient than current devices , energy consumption will rise and that will worsen the greenhouse effect . 
It is interested in making some money advising industry on how to convert to a world without CFCs . 
There is , after all , big money in environmentalism . 
Freon , introduced in 1930 , revolutionized America by making refrigeration and air conditioning practical after all . 
Du Pont , as it happens , has a potential substitute for CFCs . 
Japanese chemical companies are at work developing their own substitutes and hoping to conquer new markets , of course . 
Environmental groups would soon go out of business were they not able to send out mailings describing the latest threat and asking for money to fight it . 
University professors and consultants with scientific credentials saw a huge market for their services evaporate when price decontrol destroyed the energy crisis and thus the demand for `` alternative energy . '' 
They needed new crises to generate new grants and contracts . 
That tends to tilt the public debate toward `` solutions '' even when some of the most knowledgeable scientists are skeptical about the seriousness of the threats and the insistence of urgency . 
There is an element of make-work involved . 
Much of its attention was spent fighting organized labor 's initiatives on issues the small-business community traditionally opposes -- from raising state minimum wage levels to mandating benefits in health plans . 
While results were mixed in many states , `` small business got by fairly well , '' concludes Don L. Robinson , associate director of the National Federation of Independent Business , the largest small-business organization . 
Oregon 's rate will rise to $ 4.75 an hour , the nation 's highest , in Jan. 1 , 1991 . 
Iowa 's will be the second highest -- at $ 4.65 an hour in January 1992 -- but small-business lobbyists won an exclusion for tiny concerns and a lower training rate . 
The Illinois Legislature narrowly passed a parental-leave bill , which Gov. James Thompson vetoed , and Iowa and Tennessee amended laws to require that employers pay for breast-cancer exams . 
Similar proposals were defeated in at least 15 other states . 
`` It 's just a matter of time before the tide turns , '' says one Midwestern lobbyist . 
In Pennsylvania , small businesses are pushing for a voluntary alternative ; they favor a commission that would develop sample leave policies that employers could adopt . 
The preferential treatment even applies to awarding small contracts under $ 25,000 and consulting and temporary services -- which often go to the smaller concerns . 
Firms are permitted wide flexibility in the child-care arrangements they provide . 
In San Francisco , small businesses are urging passage of a local initiative to build a new $ 95 million downtown baseball stadium ; they believe it will spur retail sales and hotel-restaurant business . 
Wessels & Pautsch , a small St. Charles law firm , plans to mail 500 customers a list of its lawyers ' new phone and fax numbers as well as updated Rolodex cards . 
Even print-shop operator Clay Smith of Naperville wo n't discard his old supply . 
-LRB- He reports his business is up slightly from customers replacing old stock . -RRB- 
Now some negotiated sales that meet a series of tests do n't have to be pre-registered . 
Such buyers must have a minimum net worth of $ 1 million , $ 200,000 annual income , or recent experience in the business area of the franchise being sold . 
Lewis G. Rudnick , a Chicago lawyer who represents franchisers , contends California is narrowly limiting -- rather than expanding -- opportunities for negotiating sales . 
He argues California regulators historically have misinterpreted their law -- and he says negotiated sales that are n't pre-registered have been legal all along . 
The massive temblor , which killed at least 61 people , severed the Bay Bridge , a major artery to the east , and closed most ramps leading to and from Highway 101 , the biggest artery to the south . 
For the first time in memory , it was standing-room only in BART 's sleek , modern railcars . 
In the best of times , the Bay Bridge is the worst commute in the region , often experiencing back-ups of 20 to 30 minutes or more . 
Storm flooding caused back-ups on the freeway , and many commuters had to find rides to BART 's stations , because parking lots were full before dawn . 
Bus schedules were sometimes in disarray , stranding commuters such as Marilyn Sullivan . 
Yesterday , she was still waiting at a bus stop after three hours , trying to transfer to a bus going to the financial district . 
`` It 's one of the smoothest commutes I 've ever had , '' said Charles Catania , an insurance broker on the bus from Mill Valley in Marin County . 
`` It looks like a holiday . 
I think a lot of people got scared and stayed home . '' 
`` Everybody pretty much pitched in and cooperated , '' said Stan Perez , a sergeant with the California Highway Patrol . 
The Golden Gate handled as many cars as normally yesterday , but over four hours rather than the usual two-hour crush . 
The flextime may cut by almost a third the number of PG&E employees working conventional 9-5 hours , a spokesman says . 
Some of the utility 's employees may opt for a four-day workweek , 10 hours a day , to cut the commute by 20 % . 
One senior vice president at Bechtel said he got up at 3 a.m. to drive into San Francisco from the East Bay . 
Although one transportation official said drivers who did n't use car pools were committing `` an anti-social act , '' about two-thirds of the motorists crossing the Golden Gate were alone , compared with the normal 70 % rate . 
Though almost everybody at the playing site had been looking for the 26-year-old Soviet to beat the Pennsylvania-based computer , he gave the machine a far worse drubbing than many expected . 
As if he were Iron Mike , about to enter the ring with a 98-pound weakling , he declared : `` I 'll be able to beat any computer for the next five years . '' 
Mr. Kasparov was underwhelmed . 
`` The computer 's mind is too straight , too primitive , '' lacking the intuition and creativity needed to reach the top , he said . 
Its chief builder , Taiwan-born Feng-hsiung Hsu , nicknamed his brainchild `` the Weasel '' for its tactical flair at wriggling out of horrible positions . 
This became apparent as game one , a Sicilian Defense by Mr. Kasparov , proceeded . 
No human can examine millions of moves , but Mr. Kasparov , using his ineffably powerful brain , consistently found very good ones . 
Instead of castling , a standard measure to safeguard the king , D.T. made a second-rate rook maneuver at move 13 ; then it put a knight offside on move 16 . 
`` Only two classes of minds would think of this -- very weak human players , and computers , '' said Edmar Mednis , the expert commentator for the match , which was attended by hundreds of chess fans . 
It allowed Mr. Kasparov to exchange his dark-squared bishop for one of D.T. 's knights . 
Bishops usually are worth slightly more than knights , but in this case Mr. Kasparov was left with a very dangerous knight and D.T. 's surviving bishop was reduced to passivity . 
When most spectators thought its position hopeless , the computer thought it was only , in effect , one-half of a pawn down . 
No amount of weasling could have saved this game for D.T . 
A piece down , the computer resigned . 
This left the computer with a broader range of plausible replies -- and it immediately blundered by moving a queenside pawn , to the neglect of kingside development . 
In such positions , he explained , `` you have to create something new , and the computer is n't able to do that right now . '' 
Greedily , it grabbed a pawn , at the cost of facing a brutal attack . 
Mr. Kasparov remarked later that `` even a weak club player '' would have avoided the queen move . 
On a demonstration board , emcee Shelby Lyman showed a quick kill initiated by a knight sacrifice ; no spectator refuted this line of play . 
He won D.T. 's queen for two minor pieces and two pawns -- not enough compensation , in this position , to give the computer much hope . 
What he had demonstrated , he added , is that there 's more to chess than sheer calculation . 
Yields on five-year CDs at major banks were averaging about 7.45 % , and 10-year Treasury notes were paying less than 8 % . 
The CD seemed like a great deal . 
Because the CD had an effective yield of 13.4 % when it was issued in 1984 , and interest rates in general had declined sharply since then , part of the price Dr. Blumenfeld paid was a premium -- an additional amount on top of the CD 's base value plus accrued interest that represented the CD 's increased market value . 
The tip-off came when he opened a recent Merrill Lynch statement and found that the CD 's `` estimated current market value '' had plummeted by $ 9,000 in a month . 
`` This is one thing I was never aware of , '' he says . 
He assumed that principal and interest were `` fully insured up to $ 100,000 , '' he adds . 
Especially at times like these , when declining rates make it hard for investors to get yields they have come to expect , too many people chase the promise of above-market returns without fully appreciating the risk . 
`` The biggest problem we have is that investors realize , after the fact , that they did n't understand what they were investing in . '' 
He says that he knew he was getting a zero-coupon CD and that he had previously invested in TIGRs -LRB- Treasury Income Growth Receipts -RRB- , a type of zero-coupon Treasury security sold by Merrill Lynch . 
Those officials say there was full disclosure of the risks in a `` fact sheet '' sent to all CD investors with their confirmation of sale . 
Computations involving zero-coupon CDs are more complicated and you should discuss any questions you may have with your financial consultant . '' 
`` I assumed I was buying a CD as a CD , '' he says . 
`` There 's a question whether brokers at the time were fully aware '' of the risks . 
`` We were n't sure that full disclosure , as we wanted it , was being made . '' 
Merrill Lynch now provides credit rating information about the institutions whose CDs it sells , which it did n't provide in 1986 . 
Merrill Lynch estimates that fewer than 10 financial institutions currently issue zero-coupon CDs . 
No one else will watch out for you . 
`` If you want to be a player , you have to be in America , Europe and the Far East . 
You must have world-class brands , a long-term perspective and deep pockets . '' 
While premium-brand spirits like Smirnoff vodka and Jack Daniel 's whiskey are riding high in the U.S. , domestic spirits consumption fell 15 % to 141.1 million cases in 1988 from 166 million cases in 1979 . 
U.S. brandy exports more than doubled last year to 360,000 proof gallons , a standard industry measure , according to Jobson Beverage Alcohol Group , an industry association . 
Exports of rum surged 54 % to 814,000 proof gallons . 
California wineries , benefiting from lowered trade barriers and federal marketing subsidies , are expanding aggressively into Japan , as well as Canada and Great Britain . 
In Japan , the wineries are promoting their products ' Pacific roots and courting restaurant and hotel chefs , whose recommendations carry weight . 
Using cinema , television and print ads , the company pitches Southern Comfort as a grand old drink of the antebellum American South . 
While U.S. makers of vodka , rum and other spirits compete against powerhouses abroad , trade agreements prohibit any other country from making bourbon . 
-LRB- All bourbon comes from Kentucky , though Jack Daniel 's Tennessee whiskey often is counted as bourbon because of similarity of taste . -RRB- 
How was the West won ? With a six-shooter in one hand and bourbon in the other . 
With a six-shooter in one hand and bourbon in the other . 
Big U.S. distillers are fiercely vying for this market , which grew to $ 77 million last year from $ 33 million in 1987 , according to government figures . 
The company 's I.W. Harper brand is the leading bourbon in Japan , with 40 % of the market . 
Jim Beam Brands has a distribution partnership with Nikka Whiskey Co. , a distiller . 
Seagram Co. , which exports Four Roses bourbon , has such a link with Kirin Brewery Co . 
To promote Jack Daniel 's overseas , Brown-Forman uses the same photos of front porches from Lynchburg , Va. , and avuncular old men in overalls and hightops . 
In Australia , land of the outback , a snapshot of Jim Beam lies on a strip of hand-tooled leather . 
West Germans get glitz , with bourbon in the foreground and a posh Beverly Hills hotel in the background . 
Ads for England are artsy and irreverent . 
One ad features a huge robot carrying a voluptuous woman in a faint . 
Revenue reached $ 1.1 billion from $ 1.01 billion . 
Publishing reported operating profit was $ 33.3 million , nearly flat with the year-before $ 33 million . 
The publishing unit reported revenue edged up 2.6 % to $ 263.2 million from $ 256.6 million . 
Revenue eased 0.3 % to $ 3.45 billion from $ 3.46 billion . 
ABC has four shows in the top 10 , including the top show , `` Roseanne . 
Nortek has agreed not to acquire any securities of Federal-Mogul for 10 years and not to influence company affairs during that period . 
Manville said it expects the plant to begin operating at the end of 1991 . 
With economic growth slowing , they say they believe the Fed should ease credit even further . 
In the latest period , the company had an average of 370.8 million shares , 5.6 million shares below last year 's level . 
Systemwide sales , which include sales at franchisee as well as company-owned stores , totaled $ 4.59 billion compared with $ 4.2 billion . 
Compared with the first nine months of last year , average franchisee store sales this year were down nearly $ 3,200 , reflecting a fierce discounting war among fast-food chains . 
Since McDonald 's menu prices rose this year , the actual decline may have been more . 
One analyst noted that the company often has better store locations than do its franchisees , thus aiding promotional efforts . 
Prudential-Bache Securities analyst Leslie Steppel said reduced labor costs helped boost margins , although she doubted `` that kind of performance is sustainable . '' 
Calling sales `` still relatively soft , '' Ms. Steppel believes that in real terms , U.S. sales slipped 3 1\/2 % to 4 % at company-operated stores in the quarter . 
Third-quarter sales in Europe were exceptionally strong , boosted by promotional programs and new products -- although weaker foreign currencies reduced the company 's earnings . 
McDonald 's said that systemwide sales would have been $ 115 million greater had 1988 exchange rates remained in effect . 
Revenue rose 11 % to $ 4.56 billion from $ 4.12 billion . 
Early yesterday , Carnival said in a company statement that it had been `` notified unofficially '' that Waertsilae Marine Industries , the Finnish shipyard that is building its three new cruise ships , planned to file for bankruptcy . 
`` I did n't even know that a company in a socialistic country could file for bankruptcy . '' 
The second ship , which is half-completed , is scheduled to be delivered in fall 1990 , and the third in fall 1991 . 
`` The others will probably be delivered as well , but Carnival will likely have to pay a higher price for them . '' 
She said the company could pay as much as 25 % more for the ships . 
Analysts said those estimates -- which range from about $ 1.80 a share to $ 1.95 a share -- are based on Fantasy being in operation in 1990 . 
If the ship fails to arrive , those per-share earnings estimates could be trimmed 15 cents or more . 
Some analysts say this may give it the right to seize the ship if the situation warrants it . 
The shipyard disclosed in mid-August that it expected losses stemming from a series of unprofitable orders . 
Ms. Garratt sued the Dallas apparel maker earlier this year , charging that Jerell developed and marketed clothing lines fashioned after her designs , in violation of their contract . 
He declined to make a specific earnings estimate . 
Sales rose 2.8 % to $ 864.1 million , from $ 840.4 million . 
Mr. Sheridan , who had been expecting quarter profit of about $ 1.25 a share , says he is reducing his estimate for the year to the area of $ 5.70 a share , from his previous estimate of $ 6.10 . 
He said Eaton 's quarter profit margin on controls was lower than he anticipated . 
Sales of parts for cars and construction vehicles rose . 
The truck sales slowdown reflects the general slowing in sales of consumer goods , he said , and the latest reports show a slight improvement rather than any indication of a downward spiral . 
The company attributed the decline to weakness in the commercial-switch market in North America and in the European appliance-controls market . 
Eaton earned from continuing operations $ 165.1 million , or $ 4.40 a share , down 7 % from $ 177.5 million , or $ 4.76 a share , a year earlier . 
Even more remarkably , it focused on emissions trading and similar market approaches to address pollution , notwithstanding Poland 's lack of functioning markets . 
The answer lies both in the degraded environment of these countries and the perceived causes of that degradation . 
Norms are consistently exceeded at 60 % of nitrogen oxide monitoring sites and 80 % of those for dust and soot emissions . 
Four-fifths of Poland 's soils have become highly acidified ; 70 % of its southern forests are projected to die by century 's end . 
Between 1965 and 1985 , Polish waters fit for human consumption dropped from 33 % to 6 % of all surface waters , while those unfit even for industry use nearly doubled . 
Its mortality rate for males over 35 is about 50 % higher than West Germany 's , and 50 % higher in hazard areas than the national average . 
Since 1978 , average annual growth rates for most pollutants have outstripped the growth of GNP . 
They repeatedly noted that environmental progress could not be secured without true ownership , genuine competition based on market factors , and the risk of bankruptcy if a business makes the wrong decisions . 
The Russians are talking peace . The Palestinians are talking elections . And the Poles are engaged in commerce . '' 
The Palestinians are talking elections . 
Those implications include : -- Privatization . 
Market-based pollution control may consume some capital that would otherwise purchase state industries . 
That means simple , clear rules that secure the first large blocks of reduction , deferring more complex issues such as risk . 
That 's because quota-trained managers will likely respond better to quantity than to price signals . 
New types of financing must make funds available without draining Poland 's hard-currency reserves . 
While Polish data have been freely available since 1980 , it was no accident that participants urged the free flow of information . 
His point : It will be increasingly difficult for the U.S. to cling to command-and-control measures if even the East Bloc steps to a different drummer . 
It finished at 467.22 , down 3.45 . 
The Nasdaq Financial Index of giant insurance and banking issues lost 2.38 to 458.32 . 
`` It 's nothing dramatic , just a routine sell-off . '' 
Some of it was due to lower-than-expected earnings from leading companies , he said . 
For October so far , daily volume is averaging 150.3 million , putting it on track to be the year 's busiest month . 
Stratus Computer , which reported earnings late Friday that were in line with a disappointing forecast , eased 3\/4 to 24 on 816,000 shares . 
It said net income was 17 cents a share in the third quarter , compared with 16 cents a share a year earlier . 
Rainbow 's stock dropped 2 to 14 1\/4 . 
Microsoft , which last week rose to a record , fell victim to profit-taking , traders said , as it declined 2 1\/8 to 83 1\/8 . 
Conner Peripherals was unchanged at 15 . 
The increase of $ 1.25 a share is being made to settle shareholder litigation relating to SIBV-MS 's tender offer . 
LIN 's suitor , McCaw Cellular Communications , dropped 1 to 40 on almost 350,000 shares . 
They say investors will favor companies that historically have posted annual earnings growth of 15 % to 20 % . 
That would be good news for the OTC market , some analysts say , because many small growth stocks are traded there . 
The Robertson Stephens Index of 340 emerging growth stocks is up 23.1 % for the year through Friday . 
The rise matches that of the Dow Jones industrials this year . 
He predicted that the most popular growth companies will be those with `` some kind of unique product or franchise '' that makes them appear able to sustain their momentum . 
He puts the OTC market 's Nellcor , Office Club and BizMart on the list . 
BizMart , another retailing stock , was off 3\/8 to 8 1\/4 on nearly 80,000 shares . 
Payco American , a credit collection concern , jumped 1 3\/8 to 20 5\/8 on volume of 93,000 , and Mail Boxes Etc. , a private postal services company , advanced 1\/2 to 23 1\/2 on volume of 64,000 . 
Novell , a computer networking concern , fell 1 1\/2 to 30 on 152,000 shares . 
Amgen rose 2 1\/4 to 54 3\/4 on almost 800,000 shares , and CVB Financial jumped 4 to 41 on only 1,000 shares . 
It 's not that we do n't know how to , because we do . 
It 's that we do n't want to . 
These beliefs so dominate our educational establishment , our media , our politicians , and even our parents that it seems almost blasphemous to challenge them . 
No one can say . 
In practice , it ends up being equated with a `` self-expression '' that encourages the youngsters ' `` self-esteem . '' 
The result is a generation of young people whose ignorance and intellectual incompetence is matched only by their good opinion of themselves . 
It is not surprising that parents find this romantic extravagance so attractive . 
Their commitment to `` creativity '' can not survive adolescent illiteracy . 
`` Progressive education '' -LRB- as it was once called -RRB- is far more interesting and agreeable to teachers than is disciplined instruction . 
I myself took such courses in college , thinking I might end up a schoolteacher . 
They could all fairly be described as `` pap '' courses . 
I know many schoolteachers and , on the whole , they are seriously committed to conscientious teaching . 
They may not be among the `` best and brightest '' of their generation -- there are very few such people , by definition . 
Yes , we all can remember one or two truly inspiring teachers from our school days . 
In this sense , a teacher can be compared to one 's family doctor . 
If he were brilliant , he probably would not be a family doctor in the first place . 
If he is competent and conscientious , he serves us well . 
Whether they are or are not underpaid is a problem of equity ; it is not an educational problem . 
It is silly libel on our teachers to think they would educate our children better if only they got a few thousand dollars a year more . 
It is the kind of libel the teachers ' unions do n't mind spreading , for their own narrow purposes . 
If there were such evidence , you can be sure you would have heard of it . 
There are many successful schools scattered throughout this nation , some of them in the poorest of ghettos , and they are all sending us the same message . 
We really do know all we need to know , if only we could assimilate this knowledge into our thinking . 
They are inevitably inclined to echo the conventional pap , since this is the least controversial option that is open to them . 
A comprehensive development policy for governors over 30 would seem to be a more pressing need . 
What Gov. Clinton is advocating , in effect , is extending the educational system down to the pre-kindergarten years . 
Whether desirable or not , this is a child-care program , not an educational program . 
We know that very early exposure to schooling improves performance in the first grade , but afterward the difference is quickly washed away . 
Parents are too likely to blame schools for the educational limitations of their children . 
Parents should be involved with their children 's education at home , not in school . 
They should see to it that their kids do n't play truant ; they should make certain that the children spend enough time doing homework ; they should scrutinize the report card . 
If parents are dissatisfied with a school , they should have the option of switching to another . 
Locally elected school boards , especially in our larger cities , become the prey of ambitious , generally corrupt , and invariably demagogic local politicians or would-be politicians . 
New York is in the process of trying to disengage itself from a 20-year-old commitment to this system of school governance , even as Chicago and other cities are moving to institute it . 
The reason is simple : Education takes place in the classroom , where the influence of money is minimal . 
The new money flows into the already top-heavy administrative structure , which busies itself piling more and more paper work on the teachers . 
There is neither mystery nor paradox in the fact that as educational expenditures -LRB- in real terms -RRB- have increased sharply in the past quarter-of-a-century -- we now spend more per pupil than any other country in the world -- educational performance has declined . 
That is the way the system works . 
No student should be permitted to be graduated from elementary school without having mastered the 3 R 's at the level that prevailed 20 years ago . 
This means `` tracking , '' whose main purpose is less to permit the gifted youngsters to flourish -LRB- though that is clearly desirable -RRB- than to ensure that the less gifted get the necessary grounding for further study or for entering the modern world of work . 
The purpose of education is to encourage young men and women to realize their full academic potential . 
No one in his right mind actually believes that we all have an equal academic potential . 
The latter are modish , trendy , often downright silly , and at best insubstantial . 
They are based on dubious psychological and sociological theories rather than on educational experience . 
One of the reasons American students do so poorly in math tests , as compared with British , French , German or Japanese students , is the influence of the `` New Math '' on American textbooks and teaching methods . 
Study after study -- the most recent from the Brookings Institution -- tells us that the best schools are those that are free of outside interference and are governed by a powerful head . 
With that authority , of course , goes an unambiguous accountability . 
Schools that are structured in this way produce students with higher morale and superior academic performance . 
He said he believes IBM 's decision to invest this sort of effort into a single industry showed that it was getting serious about understanding customers ' problems and was n't just selling technology . 
He said he expects IBM to unveil similar strategies for other industries in coming months . 
Rather than just send out marketing people to knock on customers ' doors , IBM is making several hundred of its own manufacturing people available to discuss specific needs . 
Per-share net rose to 55.10 yen from 54.51 yen . 
Net income jumped 21 % to 79.03 billion yen from 65.53 billion yen . 
Per-share net rose to 62.04 yen from 51.50 yen . 
Operating profit rose 5.3 % to 279.75 billion yen from 265.79 billion yen . 
Net income surged 21 % to 55.59 billion yen from 46.02 billion yen . 
Per-share net rose to 47.46 yen from 39.31 yen . 
Net income rose 23 % to 63.52 billion yen from 51.65 billion yen . 
Per-share net rose to 44.08 yen from 36.13 yen . 
It would extinguish all of Eagle 's existing capital stock and issue new stock to York as sole holder . 
In September 1988 , Eagle acquired Biny Clothing Inc. , a closely held New York chain operated under the Bonds name . 
Eagle 's management retired and Biny 's management took control of the company . 
As interest rates paid depositors were lowered , thrift withdrawals exceeded deposits by $ 5.1 billion , not including interest credited to accounts . 
`` This suggests the bailout law is having a more dramatic effect than anyone would have imagined so soon . '' 
`` August is a month when people are paying school tuition , '' he said . 
`` That and adjustment to the new law were the biggest factors in the industry . '' 
Deposits are n't expected to exceed withdrawals in the foreseeable future , as the industry continues to shrink . 
For the prior year , deposits exceeded withdrawals by $ 8.8 billion . 
Since the bureau 's estimates for the business sector provide the numerator for the productivity ratios calculated by the Department of Labor , underestimated growth rates artificially depress official productivity statistics . 
This forecast was based on the apparent reversal of most of the negative forces -- such as demographic changes , the oil shock and accelerating inflation -- that had reduced productivity gains in the 1970s . 
The evidence does not clearly support the view that the downward bias in output growth has become greater during the 1948-89 period , but all I am claiming is that the growth trend is understated . 
The understatement of growth is due largely to the conservative expedients adopted to deal with deficiencies in basic economic data . 
This means that no allowance is made for possible increases in output per unit of labor . 
In an unrelated program in which the Labor Department does estimate output per employee for more than two-thirds of federal civilian employees , it found an average annual rate of productivity improvement of 1.7 % during the 1980s . 
Even if it is assumed that productivity rose no more than half as quickly in the rest of the nonbusiness sector , this Labor Department estimate indicates a downward bias in the real GNP estimates of 0.2 percentage point a year , on average . 
Independent estimates of output in those industries , including one by the Department of Labor for banking , suggests that productivity in finance and services appears to have risen by an average of at least 1.5 % a year between 1948 and 1988 . 
Because finance and services contribute 10 % to final business product , missing these productivity improvements depresses the overall growth rate by 0.15 % a year . 
I estimate that these mismeasurements as detailed by Martin N. Baily and Robert J. Gordon add a further 0.12 percentage point to the downward bias in the growth rate of real business product . 
In 1985 , a new price index for computers adjusted for changes in performance characteristics was introduced , and that resulted in a significantly larger increase in real outlays for durable goods than the earlier estimates had showed . 
For the private domestic business economy , the bias was a bit over 0.5 percentage point . 
The first real test of whether prices have hit bottom may come in the next several weeks , when the new prices become effective . 
In the industrial-gases segment , operating profit climbed to $ 87 million from $ 58 million . 
Just yesterday , New Hampshire announced it made a $ 75,000 settlement with Drexel , a record-tying fine for a securities-law matter in that state . 
Officials in some of these states say they do n't want to simply accept the settlements offered by Drexel . 
They question if Drexel is getting easier treatment than the many small penny-stock firms whose brokerage licenses are routinely revoked . 
It already has sold its retail , or individual-investor , brokerage network ; securities firms do n't need brokerage licenses for non-retail activities such as investment banking . 
The question , she said , is whether Drexel should be allowed to pay and move on , or `` whether you should -LRB- simply -RRB- revoke the license when someone is convicted of a felony . '' 
I can see both sides . '' 
Asked about states that are taking a hard line , he said , `` There are states that have asked for additional information , which we are providing to them . '' 
By the end of this week , Drexel should have another three to four settlements , Mr. Cohen said . 
The investment bank has previously announced that as part of its punishment it would create an independent foundation to promote ethical behavior in the securities industry . A proviso to that promise is that a minimum of 35 states reach settlement agreements before next Tuesday . 
A proviso to that promise is that a minimum of 35 states reach settlement agreements before next Tuesday . 
The state is n't ruling out revoking Drexel 's brokerage license . 
It is one of the states that have met with Mr. Cohen and asked for additional information about investors ' accounts and other matters . 
A banking department spokesman added : `` Commissioner Brown does n't feel that money alone is the issue here . '' 
Neither state has settled , and officials in the two states wo n't discuss their reasons for not doing so . 
`` We need to have somebody worried so they do n't do this again . '' 
On a pro-forma basis , assuming the merger was effective Jan 1 , 1988 , including the results from both Time Inc. and all of Warner , that cash flow figure would be $ 526 million for the latest quarter , more than double the comparable figure a year ago , or $ 242 million , according to Time Warner . 
`` What really matters is the operating income of the divisions : I look at these numbers and I say , these businesses are doing well , '' said Mark Manson , a vice president of Donaldson , Lufkin & Jenrette Securities Corp . 
That 's a big number . 
Combined revenue for the latest quarter of Time Warner was $ 2.2 billion , compared with the year-ago Time revenue of $ 1.1 billion . 
On the same basis , revenue rose to $ 2.7 billion from $ 2.2 billion . 
Revenue rose to $ 1.5 billion from $ 1.1 billion . 
`` Batman '' alone has racked up more than $ 247 million in box-office receipts to date , making it Warner Bros . ' largest grossing film ever . 
`` Lethal Weapon II '' was also a big hit . 
In magazines , higher advertising revenues at Sports Illustrated and Fortune were offset by lower ad revenue for other major magazines . The programming division saw a decline in operating cash flow because the year-ago quarter included a $ 12 million dividend from Turner Broadcasting System and because the quarter includes expenses associated with the Nov. 15 launch of HBO 's Comedy Channel . 
The programming division saw a decline in operating cash flow because the year-ago quarter included a $ 12 million dividend from Turner Broadcasting System and because the quarter includes expenses associated with the Nov. 15 launch of HBO 's Comedy Channel . 
William S. Leavitt , chairman , said Mr. Penn , 58 years old , would continue as a consultant and would work with the board in selecting a successor . 
President Bush must appoint two other members , one a Democrat and one a Republican . 
The Democratic appointee has n't been determined , the official said . 
`` The RTC needs the most able , competent management available . '' 
He was co-chairman of Mr. Bush 's Arizona campaign committee in last year 's election , and also worked for Mr. Bush in the 1980 election . 
The two met more than 30 years ago , when Mr. Simmons worked for Commercial Bank & Trust Co. of Midland , Texas , where Mr. Bush was an organizing director . 
The debt-rating concern cited the bank 's move into the Texas market , noting its profitability and capital adequacy measurements will be depressed relative to the bank 's past performance . 
The 301-year-old exchange is battered by enormous claims from a decade-long run of unprecedented disasters , the most recent of which is last week 's earthquake in California 's Bay Area . 
The exchange is gradually being squeezed into narrow , less-profitable segments of the market by less hidebound competitors . 
`` It needs more discipline . 
It needs to sort itself out . '' 
Some 1,750 members quit the exchange last year , more than triple the number of resignations in 1987 . 
Names are resigning at an even faster pace this year . 
The average after-tax return on investment in 1986 , the most recent year for which results are available , was 6.5 % , according to Chatset Ltd. , an insurance consulting firm in London . 
In 1985 , it was 2.1 % . 
Investors may reap huge profits when premiums exceed claims , but they are liable to their last pound or dollar in the event of a catastrophe . 
The peril of unlimited liability looms large for a number of them now . 
`` I have wished I could die and be out of it -- that 's how bad it is , '' Betty Atkins , a secretary from suburban London , says . 
Ms. Atkins , who underwrote # 20,000 , or about $ 32,000 , of insurance coverage on that syndicate , now faces potential losses of roughly # 70,000 , or $ 111,000 . 
`` If Lloyd 's wants # 70,000 out of me they will have to take everything I 've got -- and even then I do n't know if it will be enough , '' she says . 
`` I ca n't think of any reason to join Lloyd 's now , '' says Keith Whitten , a British businessman and a Lloyd 's member since 1979 . 
`` The downside is very considerable , and at the moment the upside is very marginal . '' 
If profits do n't improve , Mr. Whitten says he may quit the exchange . 
Lloyd 's is being squeezed out of low-margin but more consistently profitable product lines such as primary property and marine insurance . 
Over the past decade , competitors have chipped away at the exchange 's share of the # 2.5 billion marine market in London , where half the world 's ships are insured . 
It virtually dictated how ships were to be built and it monitored commerce through a unrivaled intelligence network in ports around the globe . 
-LRB- Its stake is even smaller if life insurance is included . -RRB- 
Bigger rivals , such as Aetna and Allianz , backed by armies of statisticians using computers in hundreds of branches , operate more efficiently and often can offer lower rates , brokers say . 
Though Lloyd 's pioneered such now-standard policies as worker 's compensation insurance , burglary insurance for homeowners and businesses , and bankers ' liability insurance , competitors now underwrite most of that business . 
Even Lloyd 's specialty -- unusually risky ventures -- is being challenged . 
`` Lloyd 's has lost control of the situation , '' he says . 
`` They are n't controlling their destiny like they used to . '' 
`` This is a watershed time , and we are trying to plot our way ahead , '' he says . 
The exchange , he says , must find new products and new markets . 
Tradition is dictator at Lloyd 's . 
Three years ago , the exchange took up residence in a space-age tower of steel and glass -- evocative of the kind of modern architecture that Britain 's Prince Charles has denounced . 
-LRB- Some exchange wags call the building `` the oil rig . '' -RRB- 
Underwriting does n't get under way until after morning tea at 10 a.m . 
A two-hour lunch break follows . 
Things wind down at about 4:30 p.m. , just in time for afternoon tea . 
A broker may have to approach as many as 20 underwriters who insure the endeavors on behalf of the syndicates . 
John Wetherell , a Lloyd 's underwriter , says he and his fellow underwriters underestimated by as much as 50 % the premiums they should have charged for property risks from 1980 to 1985 . 
`` How unprofessional we must have appeared to the outside world -- how incompetent at risk assessment and evaluation , '' he says . 
Many at Lloyd 's expect the San Francisco earthquake will cause the industry to boost rates even further . 
Lloyd 's only recently reported its financial results for 1986 . 
Insurance analysts say the exchange 's downturn in profitability is likely to be aggravated by more than $ 600 million in aviation losses -LRB- including the 1988 Pan Am airline disaster over Lockerbie , Scotland -RRB- and a still-uncalculated chunk of claims from September 's Hurricane Hugo . 
Mr. Lawrence says the drain of funds has been offset by an increase in investments by the remaining names . 
-LRB- It recently cut its work force by 9 % , or 213 . -RRB- 
Mr. Wetherell , the underwriter , reckons half of his business could be transacted by computer , cutting costs at least 10 % . 
Though Lloyd 's has talked for years about computerizing underwriting transactions , the effort has n't gotten very far . 
Competition among underwriters and brokers makes them loath to centralize price and policy information . 
Both groups cling to traditional face-to-face dealings , even for routine policies . 
Some underwriters have been pressing for years to tap the low-margin business by selling some policies directly to consumers . 
Lloyd 's presently sells only auto insurance directly to the public , and such policies are sold only in limited markets such as the U.K. and Canada . 
The proposal to sell directly to the public remains mired in bureaucratic quicksand . 
Mr. Lawrence says the exchange is updating some procedures to make speedier payments on claims . 
By next year , all underwriters will be linked to a communications network that could reduce paper work on claims . 
Yoshitoki Chino retains his title of chairman of Daiwa , Japan 's second-largest securities firm . 
The title of chief executive officer is n't used . 
It was only earlier this year that the jovial , easygoing executive -- he likes to joke with Americans about how his name is synonymous with twelve -- was appointed deputy president . 
As of March 31 , the Daiwa group had shareholder equity of 801.21 billion yen -LRB- $ 5.64 billion -RRB- . 
For the six months ended Sept. 30 , Daiwa reported unconsolidated -LRB- parent company -RRB- net income of 79.03 billion yen -LRB- $ 556.5 million -RRB- on revenue of 332.38 billion yen -LRB- $ 2.34 billion -RRB- . 
While they have moved to the fore in underwriting fixed-income securities in the Eurobond market -- mostly for Japanese firms -- they have been only marginally profitable , if at all , in the U.S. . 
When he arrived in the U.S. in 1969 -- the start of an eight-year tour -- he tried selling Japanese yen-denominated bonds to U.S. investors . 
`` He made desperate efforts , using the yellow pages from beginning to end , '' said Koji Yoneyama , president of Daiwa 's U.S. unit . 
But he could n't sell any . In an interview a few months ago , he recalled how after some training at Salomon Brothers Inc. , he successfully bid for the opportunity to sell portions of 20 U.S. corporate bond issues . 
`` Japanese stock salesmen selling American bonds ? 
Maybe it 's crazy , '' he said . 
Upon returning to New York , `` Exhausted , I got into a taxicab , and the woman driver said : ` Americans make better fishermen , ' '' he recalled . 
Mr. Dozen said Daiwa 's strengths were its large capital base , its influential position in the Tokyo market and its links to Japanese corporations and institutional investors . 
Like many young recruits in Japanese securities firms , he began his career peddling stock to individual investors . 
`` He was constantly picking up new things to fill out his experience ; he is very well-balanced , '' said Takuro Isoda , chairman of Daiwa 's U.S. unit in New York . 
; he is very well-balanced , '' said Takuro Isoda , chairman of Daiwa 's U.S. unit in New York . 
Commission income from domestic stock and bond sales accounts form a large portion of Japanese securities companies ' earnings . 
`` He digs in the sand instead of hitting the ball , like a farmer , '' said Mr. Yoneyama . 
Analysts said some investors were disappointed that the cash-rich company had failed to announce a special dividend . 
Inco closed at $ 31.125 a share , down 62.5 cents , in New York Stock Exchange composite trading . 
Sales rose 8.2 % to $ 848.7 million from $ 784.5 million . 
Under a previous buyback program , Inco has purchased 1.7 million of its shares since April . 
Just last week it suffered another major setback when British Airways PLC , the largest equity investor in the labor-management bid , withdrew its support . 
The board said it concluded that `` the welfare of the company , its shareholders , its employees and the broader public ... can best be enhanced by continued development of UAL as a strong , viable , independent company . '' 
Labor problems top the list . 
For a brief time , the buy-out effort seemed to solve his problems with United 's pilot union . 
In return for an ownership stake in the company , the pilots were willing to agree to a seven-year contract that included a no-strike clause and significant wage concessions and productivity gains the union previously resisted . 
As a `` good-will measure , '' the pilots had been working four extra hours a month and had agreed to fly UAL 's two new Boeing 747-400 aircraft . 
It 's uncertain if the pilots will continue to do so without a contract settlement . 
The machinists ' criticisms of the labor-management bid and their threats of a strike unless they received substantial wage increases this year helped cool banks ' interest in financing the transaction . 
The machinists criticized the terms Mr. Wolf and management received in the buy-out . 
They paid $ 15 million for a 1 % stake and received an additional 9 % of the company at no additional cost . 
Until the collapse of this bid , Mr. Wolf was regarded as one of the nation 's savviest airline executives after engineering turnarounds of Tiger International Inc. and Republic Airlines . 
One takeover expert noted that arbitragers could force a recapitalization through the written consent process under which holders may oust the board by a majority vote . 
The machinists union has suggested it may propose a recapitalization that includes a special dividend for holders and a minority ownership stake for employees . 
Essentially , he ca n't make any hostile moves unless he makes a tender offer at least $ 300 a share . 
Last month , Apple Computer Inc. said that it would n't invest in the group . 
Apple said that its money would be better spent in areas such as research and development . 
Those chips were in dire shortage last year , hurting many U.S. computer companies that could n't get sufficient Japanese-supplied chips . 
`` At this time , we elected not to get involved because we have been able to satisfy our need -LCB- for DRAMs -RCB- from the market as a rule , '' said Ed Juge , Tandy 's director of market planning . 
`` I would like to have had them , '' he said . 
U.S. Memories needs a catalyst , he said , to inspire others to join . 
Sun Microsystems Inc. said it 's still actively evaluating U.S. Memories and plans to meet with U.S. Memories representatives later this week . 
Personal-computer maker AST Research Inc. said it is still studying the situation . 
David Boren , the Intelligence Committee chairman , is upset that someone leaked a letter to the committee from the Reagan administration suggesting that the U.S. would undertake to warn Panamanian thug Manuel Noriega if it got wind of an impending coup that might result in his assassination . 
If the CIA has become a protection service for Mr. Noriega , the American people ought to know . 
What went wrong in Panama is a fitting subject for public and congressional inquiry . 
Naturally , Senator Boren and his committee would like free rein to blame the executive branch while stamping `` top secret '' on their own complicity . 
When they did , his commanders did n't have the initiative to do more than block a couple of roads . 
What part did U.S. warnings play in the major 's unwillingness to pull the trigger when he had General Noriega in custody , but was under attack by pro-Noriega troops ? 
Mr. Noriega did n't suffer from any hesitation once he had the pistol . 
Maybe we need a CIA version of the Miranda warning : You have the right to conceal your coup intentions , because we may rat on you . 
The CIA 's Deputy Director of Operations , Richard Stoltz , tried to smooth things over a few days later , but instead simply underlined Mr. Webster 's point . 
`` The interpretation '' of the executive order , Mr. Stoltz said , `` and the way in which the various committees have over time interpreted it , has led in my view to a proper caution on the part of operators , including me . '' 
The pay 's the same , and the duty 's lighter . 
Witness the Walsh prosecution of Ollie North . 
The Intelligence Committee 's ranking Republican , Senator William Cohen , joined with Senator George Mitchell to write a best seller about Iran-Contra , deploring `` Men of Zeal . '' 
What kind of initiative should anyone expect from people out on the line who 've read all this and know what can happen if they fail ? 
Who wants to end up as the protagonist in a Bill Cohen morality play ? 
President Bush would do himself and the country a favor by rescinding the order as an ambiguous intrusion on his ability to defend America 's national security . 
There are of course good reasons the U.S. should n't get into the assassination business , but rescinding the executive order is not the same thing as saying the U.S. should start passing out exploding cigars . 
The world being the nasty place it is , we want Presidents to have the freedom to order operations in which someone might get killed . 
In such situations , you can not write rules in advance , you can only make sure the President takes the responsibility . 
As it now stands , the U.S. can bomb Tripoli , but ca n't `` assassinate '' Colonel Gadhafi . 
It can send a fighter squadron to strafe terrorist hideouts in the Bekaa Valley , but ca n't shoot Abu Nidal . 
Both the assassination order and the quality of debate in Washington are telling the world that the only way the U.S. will kill a madman is by making sure we take some innocent civilians with him . 
Mr. Katz happily agreed , sliding over the fact that California 's roads and bridges are n't funded by property taxes but by state and federal gasoline taxes . 
Both have been raised at least 30 % in recent years , even while the price of gasoline has fallen . 
Dragging Prop. 13 into this story is a pretty long stretch . 
One local Phillips manager said a seal blew in one of the plant 's reactors . 
The Port of Houston closed its terminal for handling bulk cargo . 
The initial fireball was caught by cameras in downtown Houston , about 10 miles away . 
The injured , including three in critical condition , were treated for burns , breathing problems and cuts from flying glass , hospital officials said . 
The number working at the time of the blast was n't known . 
In late August , four contract workers were injured and one Phillips employee died after an explosion at a fuel supply line near the facility 's boiler house . 
Plastics are the cornerstone of Phillips ' chemicals operations , which is the biggest single contributor to the company 's profits . 
Among other things , the government claimed that organized crime figures had routinely handpicked the union 's top officials . 
All cleanup costs from last spring 's Alaskan oil spill were reflected in earlier results , it said . 
Amerada Hess Corp. and Occidental Petroleum Corp. reported higher earnings . 
She said that impact ca n't be reasonably assessed yet . 
Revenue rose 8.1 % , to $ 23.65 billion from $ 21.88 billion . 
Exxon 's earnings from chemicals operations fell $ 90 million , to $ 254 million , while refining and marketing profits declined $ 180 million , to $ 357 million . 
He estimates that the price of West Texas Intermediate , the U.S. benchmark crude , was $ 4.04 a barrel higher during the third quarter of this year than in the same period last year . 
A year earlier , the refiner earned $ 66 million , or $ 1.19 a share . 
Quarterly revenue rose 4.5 % , to $ 2.3 billion from $ 2.2 billion . 
For the year , net income tumbled 61 % to $ 86 million , or $ 1.55 a share . 
In September , Ashland settled the long-simmering dispute by agreeing to pay Iran $ 325 million . 
Revenue climbed 28 % , to $ 1.18 billion from $ 925 million . 
Refining and marketing earnings climbed to $ 33.3 million from $ 12.9 million , and exploration and production earnings rose to $ 37.1 million from $ 17.9 million . 
Hess 's earnings were up despite a $ 30 million charge to cover the cost of maintaining operations after Hurricane Hugo heavily damaged the company 's refinery at St. Croix . 
It is widely known within industry circles that Hess had to buy oil products in the high-priced spot markets to continue supplying its customers . 
Hess declined to comment . 
Revenue rose 6.9 % , to $ 3.1 billion from $ 2.9 billion . 
Despite higher oil prices , exploration and production profits were off because of foreign-currency losses and some construction costs incurred in one of Phillips ' North Sea oil fields . 
A year ago , results were buoyed by a $ 20 million after-tax gain from an asset sale . 
Sales fell 20 % , to $ 3.7 billion from $ 4.6 billion . 
Offsetting the lower stake in Lyondell were higher crude oil prices , increased natural gas volumes and higher coke prices , the company said . 
Coal earnings rose to $ 26 million from $ 21 million . 
The largest issue was a $ 4 billion offering of auto-loan securities by General Motors Acceptance Corp. in 1986 . 
The offering is rated doubleA-2 by Moody 's and double-A by S&P , based on the quality of the underlying auto loans and a guarantee covering 9 % of the deal from Ford Motor Credit . 
I 'm not going to do anything that is not acceptable in anyone 's home . 
`` That is consumer issues . '' 
Declining issues on the New York Stock Exchange outpaced advancers , 1,012 to 501 . 
Analysts say that the selling of cyclical stocks yesterday will be followed by a sell-off in shares of companies with big debt loads on their balance sheets . 
In an economic slowdown , heavy debt loads reduce the flexibility of companies because cash that would normally be used to keep the company buoyant must be diverted to interest payments . 
Among the 30 Dow industrials , they bought McDonald 's , Coca-Cola Co. and Procter & Gamble and sold Aluminum Co. of America . 
`` The junk bond market is being taken apart '' because of recession fears , said J. David Mills , senior vice president at Boston Company Advisers . 
`` Under this scrutiny , the first thing you do is sell your cyclical stocks and the second thing you do is sell your over-leveraged companies . '' 
In a recent investment letter entitled `` Winners of the ` Leverage Wars , ' '' Edward Kerschner , chairman of PaineWebber 's investment policy committee , suggested that investors buy stocks of companies that have avoided loading up on debt . 
He suggested that investors buy the shares of Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea , J. Baker , McDonald 's , Philip Morris and Sara Lee . 
He said that all of these companies will be able to compete fiercely in an economic downturn . 
McDonald 's has long-term debt equaling 91 % of shareholder equity currently , but Mr. Kerschner said the company is carrying real estate assets at about $ 2.6 billion below their real value . 
A&P fell 1 1\/4 to 57 5\/8 , and J. Baker gained 3\/8 to 21 1\/4 . 
Philip Morris slipped 1\/2 to 43 7\/8 , while Sara Lee closed unchanged at 60 1\/8 . 
From January to early September , the index of stub stocks -- the tiny portion of equity that 's publicly traded following a recapitalization -- outperformed Standard & Poor 's 500-stock index by about 20 % . But starting in early September , the index started to slide and now stands about even with the S&P 500 . 
`` Companies that have the most exposure to the business cycle have underperformed since late last summer . '' 
Texas Instruments , which had reported Friday that third-quarter earnings fell more than 30 % from the year-ago level , went down 2 1\/8 to 33 on 1.1 million shares . 
Growing pressures on the Arizona real-estate market are affecting the thrift ; Pinnacle West told Dow Jones Professional Investor Report it may consider filing for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection if it ca n't reach an agreement with federal regulators to provide additional capital to MeraBank . 
; Pinnacle West told Dow Jones Professional Investor Report it may consider filing for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection if it ca n't reach an agreement with federal regulators to provide additional capital to MeraBank . 
Merrill Lynch and Prudential-Bache Securities both lowered the stock 's investment rating immediately after the results were issued Friday , according to PIR . 
Other stocks hurt by earnings-related selling included Tandy , which dropped 1 3\/8 to 44 , and Eaton , which retreated 2 1\/2 to 57 1\/2 . 
Third-quarter earnings at both companies were below analysts ' forecasts . 
The revision follows last month 's withdrawal of a $ 400 million junk-bond offering for the new casino company , Aztar Corp . 
USA Today reported that the Rales brothers , Washington , D.C.-based investors who made an unsuccessful offer to acquire Interco last year , have bought nearly 3 % of Mead 's common shares . 
Paramount Communications rose 5\/8 to 58 3\/4 , Time Warner climbed 1 7\/8 to 138 5\/8 , Walt Disney advanced 3 1\/8 to 127 1\/2 , MCA rose 1 1\/8 to 65 5\/8 and McGraw-Hill added 1\/2 to 67 1\/8 . 
Volume totaled 10,450,000 shares . 
The company said it had been notified unofficially that Waertsilae Marine Industries , a Finnish shipyard building three cruise ships for the company , is having financial trouble and may already have filed for bankruptcy . 
Who 'd have thought that the next group of tough guys carrying around reputations like that would be school superintendents ? 
At his old job in Compton , Calif. , he took a bitter teachers ' strike and nearly came to blows with a school-board member . 
At his first Chicago press conference , he berated the reporters . 
In New York City , the new Chancellor , Joseph Fernandez , has landed like a 16-inch shell in the middle of a system that has been impervious to serious reform . 
He may have gone overboard in his pursuit of good discipline , but is n't it interesting that some of the country 's biggest , most troubled school districts are choosing new chiefs from the same gravel-chewing mold ? 
Elena Scambio , the woman assigned to run the Jersey City school system that was taken over by the state , says her top priority will be to `` cut through the dead hand of bureaucracy . '' 
He 's attacked the concept of `` building tenure , '' one of the most disgraceful institutions in American public schools . 
It means it is virtually impossible to fire or even transfer incompetent principals . 
Once they are in the building , they stay . 
One South Bronx principal kept his job for 16 years , despite a serious drinking problem and rarely showing up for work . 
He was finally given leave when he was arrested for allegedly buying crack . 
We suggest that Mr. Fernandez find an incompetent principal , toss him out of the building and let the forces of the status quo explain to the parents whatever it is they 're defending . 
In his old job , as Dade County chief , Mr. Fernandez forced out 92 teachers and reshuffled 48 principals . 
He cut the dropout rate by 5.5 % . 
He takes over a school system in the midst of radical reform . 
Chicagoans have just elected 540 neophyte school boards , one for each school . 
This of course led to disaster in New York City . 
Getting a community of parents to care again about its schools is essential , but in Chicago the new boards will make mistakes and Mr. Kimbrough will have to identify them . 
The schools ' central mission , educating children , became subsumed by the competing interests of bureaucrats , politicians and unions . 
The classroom itself operated on the periphery of this awful system , discipline collapsed , and kids stopped learning . 
Until then , it 's clear that some of the people who 've been keeping big-city schools down are going to be dealing with the Terminator . 
Goodson has accused Ingersoll of paying less attention to its properties and more to such ventures as the recent launch of the St. Louis Sun . 
Goodson will pay the additional $ 20 million in settlement of the management contract . 
Industry analysts have said that the purchase price for the paper was too high , causing a strain on Goodson 's finances . 
Investment bankers familiar with the company said Goodson is seeking a new bank credit line of $ 190 million and may have to sell additional newspapers . 
The latter 's son , Ralph Ingersoll Jr. , took over the company and has been managing the Goodson properties and acting as an agent in the purchase of newspapers for Goodson . 
The company said its revenue will exceed $ 750 million this year . 
Mr. Goodson , in his own statement , was less upbeat , saying `` unfortunately over the past few years , it has become increasingly clear that Ralph and I have different agendas , '' and that he feels `` more comfortable with a management team whose sole interest and responsibility is in the Goodson papers . 
Mr. Freeman said in August that he would retire by the end of this year to take `` executive responsibility '' for an embarrassing effort to discredit banker Edmond Safra . 
American Express representatives apparently influenced the publication of unfavorable articles about Mr. Safra . 
The agency , under his direction , bitterly fought a takeover attempt by WPP Group PLC of London before succumbing in May . 
Alexander Brody , 56 , will take on the newly created position of president of the world-wide agency and chief executive of its international operations . 
He had been president of the international operations . 
Known as a traditional executive , he is very much in the conservative American Express mold . 
Aside from working with Mr. Robinson on the American Express advertising account for about 11 years , Mr. Roman serves on several of the same charities and boards as Mr. Robinson . 
`` He asked me not to resign . 
The implication that I was pushed aside would n't be accurate , '' Mr. Roman said . 
It was my decision , not anyone else 's . '' 
The two executives could hardly be more different . 
Mr. Roman comes across as a low-key executive ; Mr. Phillips has a flashier personality . 
; Mr. Phillips has a flashier personality . 
During time off , Mr. Roman tends to his garden ; Mr. Phillips confesses to a fondness for , among other things , fast cars and planes . 
; Mr. Phillips confesses to a fondness for , among other things , fast cars and planes . 
Industry executives say that although the two executives used to clash more frequently , the WPP takeover brought them closer together . 
Would I have done all those things successively if I did n't think he was the right guy ? '' Mr. Roman asked . 
He labeled reports of friction `` ridiculous , '' and said that he spent part of the weekend on Mr. Phillips 's boat in Connecticut . 
American Express , Kraft General Foods , and Mattel executives said the move wo n't affect their relationships with the ad agency . 
`` General Foods 's relationships with its agencies are based on the agencies ' work , and will continue to be , '' said David Hurwitt , a vice president of Kraft General Foods . 
`` Ken was my key contact , '' said J. Nicholas Hahn , president and chief executive officer of Cotton Inc. , which represents cotton producers . 
`` I do n't know -LCB- Mr. Phillips -RCB- all that well . 
I have n't seen or talked to him in several years . '' 
While the agency has done well in many parts of the world , its flagship New York office has had a dismal track record recently ; it has won few new accounts while losing big ones , including Maxwell House . 
; it has won few new accounts while losing big ones , including Maxwell House . 
`` I think -LCB- Mr. Phillips -RCB- is going to need some help . 
I think they need creative leadership , and I do n't think they have it , '' said Emma Hill , an analyst with Wertheim & Co . 
`` Norm Berry was a creative inspiration at the company , and nobody has filled that void , '' said Ms. Hill . 
`` Graham Phillips has been there a long time , knows the culture well , is aggressive , and apparently gets along well with '' Mr. Sorrell , said Andrew Wallach , an analyst with Drexel Burnham Lambert . 
`` It 's probably a reasonable transition . 
Hopefully , he 'll be the answer to the problems they 've had in New York . '' 
In July , Viacom Inc. formed Viacom Pictures to produce 12 low-budget movies a year that will premiere on Showtime network and be distributed later in various markets , including foreign theaters . 
The cost of buying the additional 48 % stake would be 10.95 billion francs -LRB- $ 1.74 billion -RRB- . 
Those include Rhin et Moselle Vie and Via Assurances . 
That idea may have backfired . 
Paribas is Allianz 's main French bank , and the Munich-based group said it intends to stay neutral . 
`` The defensive options are limited , '' says Philippe Braye , a partner in portfolio management concern France Finance Quatre . 
`` Who would bid against Paribas ? '' 
Last month , Paribas 's archrival , Cie . Financiere de Suez , won a battle for Groupe Victoire , France 's second-largest private-sector insurer , which itself had just acquired West Germany 's Colonia Versicherung AG . 
That complex bid was billed as France 's largest takeover ever -LRB- this one is slightly smaller -RRB- . 
Although Paribas denies it , analysts say the new bid in part simply reflects the continuing rivalry between France 's two largest investment banking groups . 
Although Paribas Chairman Michel Francois-Poncet would n't rule out eventually selling all of Navigation Mixte 's insurance operations to Allianz , he stressed the potential for the two groups instead to cooperate . 
Navigation Mixte has investments in a sugar company , a food and canning concern , a bakery and bus and trucking firms , among others . 
Payment by Allianz for the insurance interests it has just bought will help swell the French concern 's treasury to an estimated 11 billion francs . 
Mr. Francois-Poncet responded that his group initially intended to take only a minority stake , striking an alliance with current management . 
When notoriously independent-minded Navigation Mixte Chairman Marc Fournier rejected Paribas 's offer and began buying Paribas shares in retaliation , Mr. Francois-Poncet said , he felt obliged to bid for control . 
He told reporters he had information that Mr. Fournier was preparing to buy as much as 20 % of Paribas , up from less than 5 % currently . 
France 's second-largest government-owned insurance company , Assurances Generales de France , has been building its own Navigation Mixte stake , currently thought to be between 8 % and 10 % . 
Even though such facilities use a relatively small amount of crude , analysts say , now the facility wo n't need any , at a time of already high availability . 
Dozens of workers were injured , authorities said . 
`` Our technician is a little bearish now that we 've taken out $ 20 , '' he said . 
The December contract fell 3.85 cents a pound to $ 1.1960 . 
London Metal Exchange warehouse stocks were down only 4,800 metric tons for the week to 84,500 tons ; expectations late last week were a drop of 10,000 to 15,000 tons . 
; expectations late last week were a drop of 10,000 to 15,000 tons . 
According to Bernard Savaiko , senior commodity analyst at PaineWebber , the only stability to the market came when short sellers periodically moved in to cover their positions by buying contracts . 
This activity produced small rallies , which in turn attracted new short selling . 
Mr. Savaiko noted that copper had a steep fall in spite of a weak dollar , which would normally support the U.S. copper market . 
Mr. Savaiko believes that if copper falls below the bottom of this range the next significant support level will be about $ 1.04 . 
January platinum closed down $ 2.80 an ounce at $ 486.30 , nearly $ 4 above its low for the day . December palladium was off $ 1.55 an ounce at $ 137.20 . 
December palladium was off $ 1.55 an ounce at $ 137.20 . 
Such sales are watched closely by platinum and palladium traders because both metals are used in automobile catalytic converters . 
Mr. Savaiko theorized that the news on cold fusion did n't affect the market yesterday because many traders have already been badly burnt by such stories . 
He said the traders are demanding a higher level of proof before they will buy palladium again . 
Many analysts believe that the Soviets ' thirst for dollars this year to buy grain and other Western commodities and goods will bring them to the market whenever prices rally very much . 
On the Chicago Board of Trade , soybeans for November delivery closed at $ 5.63 a bushel , down half a cent , while the December wheat contract rose three-quarters of a cent to $ 4.0775 a bushel . 
Supporting prices was the announcement late Friday of additional grain sales to the Soviet Union . 
The March contract ended at 13.79 cents a pound , down 0.37 cent . 
Developing countries such as India , some analysts said , seem to have made it a point to stay away whenever sugar reached the top of its trading range , around 14.75 cents , and wait for prices to return to the bottom of the range , around 13.50 cents . 
A PaineWebber analyst said that in light of a new estimate of a production increase of four million metric tons and only a modest increase in consumption , sugar is n't likely to rise above the top of its trading range without a crop problem in a major producing country . 
The December contract rose $ 33 a metric ton to $ 1,027 , near its high for the day . 
Gill & Duffus Ltd. , a British cocoa-trading house , estimated that the 1989-90 world cocoa surplus would be 231,000 tons , down from 314,000 tons for the previous year . 
Recent prices for cocoa have been near levels last seen in the mid-1970s . 
Sandra Kaul , research analyst at Shearson Lehman Hutton , said the market pushed higher mainly in anticipation of a late harvest in the Ivory Coast , a major cocoa producer . 
Such news is good for bonds because economic weakness sometimes causes the Federal Reserve to lower interest rates in an effort to stimulate the economy and stave off a recession . 
That would follow a 3.9 % advance in August . 
The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 26.23 points to 2662.91 . 
`` When you get a big sell-off in equities , money starts to shift into bonds , '' which are considered safer , he said . 
Municipals ended mixed , while mortgage-backed and investment-grade corporate bonds rose . 
Prices of high-yield , high-risk corporate securities ended unchanged . 
We will go back and forth with a tilt toward slightly lower yields , '' he said . 
Tomorrow , Resolution Funding Corp. , a division of a new government agency created to bail out the nation 's troubled thrifts , will hold its first bond auction at which it will sell $ 4.5 billion of 30-year bonds . 
Analysts have mixed views about the two-year note auction . 
While some say the auction should proceed smoothly , others contend that yesterday 's sale of $ 2.58 billion of asset-backed securities by Ford Motor Credit Corp. may have siphoned some potential institutional buyers from the government 's note sale . 
The company offered securities backed by automobile loans through an underwriting group headed by First Boston Corp . 
First Boston sweetened the terms from the original yield estimate in an apparent effort to place the huge offering . 
The issue was offered at a yield nearly one percentage point above the yield on two-year Treasurys . 
The latest 10-year notes were quoted late at 100 17\/32 to yield 7.90 % , compared with 100 3\/32 to yield 7.97 % . 
The latest two-year notes were quoted late at 100 28\/32 to yield 7.84 % . 
The $ 7.81 billion of six-month Treasury bills were sold with an average discount rate of 7.50 % , the highest since the average of 7.60 % at the Oct. 10 auction . 
The percentage rates are calculated on a 360-day year , while the coupon-equivalent yield is based on a 365-day year . 
The 13-week bills mature Jan. 25 , 1990 , and the 26-week bills mature April 26 , 1990 . 
`` It 's a segmented market , and if you have a good , strong credit , people have an appetite for it , '' he said . 
Morgan Stanley is expected to price another junk bond deal , $ 350 million of senior subordinated debentures by Continental Cablevision Inc. , next Tuesday . 
Under the originally contemplated terms of the offering , the notes would have been reset annually at a fixed spread above Treasurys . 
Under the new plan being considered , the notes would reset annually at a rate to maintain a market value of 101 . 
Price talk calls for the reset notes to be priced at a yield of between 13 1\/4 % and 13 1\/2 % . 
Traders said thrifts have stepped up their mortgage securities sales as the bond market has risen in the past two weeks . 
The Ginnie Mae 9 % issue was yielding 8.36 % to a 12-year average life assumption , as the spread above the Treasury 10-year note widened slightly to 1.46 percentage points . 
He attributed that to the issue 's aggressive pricing and large size , as well as the general lethargy in the municipal marketplace . 
The issue was oversubscribed and `` doing very well , '' according to an official with lead underwriter Morgan Stanley . 
The benchmark No. 111 4.6 % bond due 1998 ended on brokers ' screens at a price of 95.39 , off 0.28 . 
The yield rose to 5.38 % . 
The benchmark 7 % bond due October 1999 fell 0.20 point to 99.80 to yield 7.03 % , while the 6 3\/4 % notes due July 1994 fell 0.10 to 97.65 to yield 7.34 % . 
The benchmark 11 3\/4 % Treasury bond due 2003\/2007 rose 1\/8 to 111 21\/32 to yield 10.11 % , while the 12 % issue of 1995 rose 3\/32 to 103 23\/32 to yield 11.01 % . 
The husky blond guide with the Aggie cap twists his face in mock fury . 
Right now he takes people out to fish in the bays behind the barrier islands that curve for hundreds of miles along the eastern coast of Texas , enclosing milky green lagoons behind ridges of sand and grassy scrub that rim the deep blue of the Gulf beyond . 
Negative answers crackle back . 
We go from one to the other . 
The great silver clouds on the horizon build themselves on the pale water . 
The guide scoops into a pail and puts a frantically wiggling croaker on the hook . 
Do n't forget , trout have very soft mouths . '' 
A pair of black skimmers zig-zag past close to the surface . 
Soon we have our limit of the shimmering fish stippled in rose-gold and black . 
There are a few ramshackle fishing towns with quiet atolls of resort houses nearby . 
People are not apt to be self-conscious about the place or themselves . 
Texas is big and beautiful and they live here , that 's all . 
He paid an immense fine and was lucky , according to a local wag , to escape the gas chamber . 
Near the coast there are dense coverts of live oak interspersed with marshes and prairies . 
Deer , wild hog , armadillos and alligators are the glamour quadrupeds and the birds are innumerable , especially the herons and the spoonbills . 
Above the blossoms of lantana and scarlet pea the inky-brown and golden palamedes butterfly floats on its lazy wingbeat . 
`` Here in south Texas we say Tie-vole-ee , '' my host gently corrects . 
AEG and Siemens each will hold a 50 % stake in the venture . 
It will develop , produce and market high-performance electronic parts . 
AEG is 80 % owned by Daimler-Benz AG , the country 's biggest industrial concern . 
Sales dropped 4 % to $ 1.12 billion from $ 1.17 billion . 
The Venezuelan currency plummeted this year , making it difficult for auto makers there to afford imported parts . 
Mary Anne Sudol , an analyst at Fitch Investors in New York , said automotive suppliers were reporting lower profit almost `` across the board . '' 
It is the stuff of dreams , but also of traumas . 
Bricktop , another American black woman who found a measure of fame in Paris , said : `` I do n't think I 've ever known anyone with a less complicated view of life , or whose life was more complicated than Josephine 's . '' 
Baker had lots of them . 
As she saw one key love affair , the problem was n't her infidelity , it was his jealousy . 
She adopted 12 of assorted races , naming them the Rainbow Tribe , and driving her husband first to despair and then to Argentina . 
Friends pitched in . 
Baker had the good luck to arrive in 1925 Paris , where blacks had become exotic . 
African art was in vogue and some intellectuals were writing breathlessly of a dawning age to be inspired by blacks . 
To be exotic was to be patronized as well as prized , but for the most part Paris was a friendly island in a racist world . 
`` She just wiggled her fanny and all the French fell in love with her , '' sniffed the literary world 's Maria Jolas , not entirely inaccurately . 
`` One can hardly overemphasize the importance of her rear end , '' Ms. Rose writes . 
Ms. Rose , who teaches literature at Wesleyan University , quickly proceeds to overemphasize , claiming that Baker 's dancing `` had uncovered a new region for desire '' and thereby ignoring centuries of tributes to the callipygous . 
Baker 's art was jazz only by the widest stretch of the term . 
To find parallels , other than sexual appeal , with Cleopatra , requires an equal stretch . 
She was devoted to Charles de Gaulle 's cause , accepting great financial sacrifice and considerable risk to become first a spy and then a one-woman USO tour for the forces of Free France . 
The night the Germans occupied all of France , Baker performed in Casablanca . 
It does n't help that sometimes Ms. Rose 's language fails to deliver the effect she appears to want . 
One chapter opens : `` World War II was not one of France 's glorious moments . '' 
The Denver-based concern , which emerged from bankruptcy-law proceedings late last year , is controlled by the Manville Personal Injury Settlement Trust . 
`` If they tried to sell , they 'd be chasing their own tail . 
What makes the most sense is to find someone who wants to buy the whole company or cause a recapitalization of all shares . '' 
Its cash and liquid securities fell by $ 338 million in the first six months of 1989 . 
Even so , the trust would seem to be facing a cash crunch . 
As of June 30 , it had settled only about 15,000 of the 81,000 received claims from asbestos victims , for an average of $ 40,424 each . 
-LRB- The average should drop over time , since the most expensive claims are being settled first -RRB- . 
`` At some point , we 're going to need an infusion of funds , '' a person close to the trust says . 
It does n't pay a dividend , and this trust needs income . 
`` Obviously , a diversified portfolio would have less risk , '' the person close to the trust says . 
Though the ink is barely dry on its new , post-bankruptcy law structure , Bill Bullock , Manville 's head of investor relations , says the company is continually pondering `` whether there is a better way to be structured . 
We understand that the trust is ultimately going to need to sell some of our shares , '' he says . 
`` This is a rare case of a company with a big majority holder which will probably act in the interests of the minority holders , '' one investor says . 
Its stock , at 9 5\/8 , trades at about 8 1\/2 times estimated 1989 earnings -- an appropriately low multiple for a company with recession-sensitive customers . 
Mr. Bullock says 45 % of revenues are tied to construction . 
Analysts predict little or no near-term growth . 
`` It 's one of the best in the business , '' says Salomon Brothers analyst Stephen Dobi . 
Paul Kleinaitis , an analyst at Duff & Phelps , says , `` Even though they have borrowing power , they have been disciplined about acquisitions . '' 
Spokesmen for Emerson and Vermont American , which has agreed to be acquired , said they do n't anticipate `` any problems '' with the completion of the transaction . 
The Vermont American acquisition is designed to enhance their position in the accessories portion of the power-tool industry . 
In composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange yesterday , Santa Fe Pacific closed at $ 20.625 , down 25 cents . 
; they would have interests in the new realty company in line with their holdings in Sante Fe Pacific . 
The debt-laden parent has been under pressure from large shareholders to boost the company 's share price . 
Pension funds rarely own as much as a 20 % stake in what is expected to be a publicly traded company . 
The note would accrue interest at the rate of 13.5 % a year , which would be payable to the fund after five years , according to Stephen E. Roulac , a real estate consultant working for the fund . 
Real estate operating income for the first nine months fell to $ 71.9 million from $ 143 million a year earlier , the company said . 
That would help reduce Santa Fe Pacific 's remaining debt to about $ 600 million from a high of $ 3.7 billion in early 1988 . 
The realty unit might take on new debt or obtain additional investors , among other possibilities . 
The Santa Fe Pacific spokesman declined to comment on that aspect , saying the deal was still under negotiation . 
Among those are the 1,850 acres in the San Francisco Bay area , including 208 acres in the Mission Bay area . 
The fund is the nation 's largest public employee fund , and it has a growing cash flow now topping $ 3 billion a year . 
JMB officials are expected to be hired to represent the pension fund on the Santa Fe Pacific Realty board , Mr. Roulac said , to insulate the fund from potential liability problems . 
The first two GAF trials were watched closely on Wall Street because they were considered to be important tests of the government 's ability to convince a jury of allegations stemming from its insider-trading investigations . 
Mr. Jefferies 's performance as a witness was expected to affect his sentencing . 
The first GAF trial ended in a mistrial after four weeks when U.S. District Judge Mary Johnson Lowe found that a prosecutor improperly , but unintentionally , withheld a document . 
After 93 hours of deliberation , the jurors in the second trial said they were hopelessly deadlocked , and another mistrial was declared on March 22 . 
A month later , Mr. Jefferies was spared a jail term by a federal judge who praised him for helping the government . 
In August , Mr. Lewis pleaded guilty to three felony counts . 
The mistrials have left the reputations of GAF , Mr. Sherwin and GAF Chairman Samuel Heyman in limbo . 
For Mr. Sherwin , a conviction could carry penalties of five years in prison and a $ 250,000 fine on each count . 
GAF faces potential fines of $ 500,000 for each count . 
Neither testified at the previous trials . 
Max Gitter , another GAF defense attorney , said yesterday , `` As we go in for the third time , Yogi Berra 's famous line is apt : ` It 's deja vu all over again . ' '' 
Baltimore attorney Michael A. Pretl and 17 other attorneys representing 18,136 claimants in the U.S. and abroad argue that the appeal would delay -- and perhaps even destroy -- a $ 2.38 billion settlement fund that is the centerpiece of the reorganization plan . The bankruptcy-court reorganization is being challenged before the Supreme Court by a dissident group of claimants because it places a cap on the total amount of money available to settle claims . 
The latter provision is `` legally unprecedented , '' said Alan B. Morrison , a public interest lawyer in Washington , D.C. , who is challenging the plan on behalf of 900 claimants . 
American Home Products Corp. wants to acquire Robins , but only if all legal challenges to the plan are exhausted . 
In 1986 Congress strengthened the penalty by making it a felony . 
Once -LCB- asbestos -RCB- is released into the environment , it can lodge anywhere , '' says Richard A. Dennis , the assistant U.S. attorney who prosecuted the case . 
Wilmer Cutler 's brief argues that there is no mandatory appellate review of capital sentences and that the inmate who filed the appeal lacks proper standing . 
James Burke and Larry Evans , formerly owners of the now-defunct Barclay Gallery , and Prudence Clark , a Barclay sales representative , were charged with conducting high-pressure telephone sales in which they misrepresented cheap copies of Dali artwork as signed , limited-edition lithographs . 
The posters were sold for $ 1,300 to $ 6,000 , although the government says they had a value of only $ 53 to $ 200 apiece . 
Henry Pitman , the assistant U.S. attorney handling the case , said about 1,000 customers were defrauded and that Barclay 's total proceeds from the sales were $ 3.4 million . 
Attorneys for Messrs. Burke and Evans and Ms. Clarke said that although their clients admitted to making some misrepresentations in the sales , they had believed that the works were authorized by Mr. Dali , who died in January . 
The posters were printed on paper pre-signed by Mr. Dali , the attorneys said . 
Mr. Decker is about 45 years old . 
It controls about 35 % of the affluent Marin County market across the Golden Gate bridge from San Francisco . 
The bank had been suffering in late 1987 from a slew of bad real estate loans made in Arizona . 
For the six months ended June 30 , it earned $ 3.1 million , or 61 cents a share , compared with net income of $ 2.4 million , or 41 cents a share , a year earlier . 
Sales for the year rose almost 15 % to $ 1.34 billion from $ 1.17 billion last year . 
It said it will exercise that right only if it sells substantially all of its other core businesses . 
Because of Integrated 's widely reported troubles , the unit 's representatives had been requesting a name change . 
If Integrated regains Royal Alliance , the representatives will retain their 49 % ownership . 
If Integrated regains the unit , it would receive any profit the unit reports , even while the unit is independent . 
If the deal closes , the two officers will draw salaries from the independent operation , not from Integrated . 
In New York Stock Exchange Composite trading , Integrated shares closed at $ 1.125 , up 12.5 cents . 
Sterling was quoted at $ 1.6030 , up from $ 1.5885 late Friday . 
Many contend that the report may overstate the economy 's health and predict the third-quarter figures may be the last vigorous statistics for some time to come . 
A 190-point plunge in U.S. stock shares compounded the view , they say . 
`` If we 're not headed for a recession , we 're certainly headed for a major slowdown . '' 
The anticipated drop follows a 3.9 % rise in August . 
Estimated volume was a very light one million ounces . 
Sales in the quarter gained 29 % to $ 410.4 million from $ 317.7 million a year earlier . 
Sales gained 16 % to $ 1.03 billion from $ 894 million . 
The index moved above 35670 at midmorning , nearly reaching the record of 35689.98 set Sept. 28 . 
Volume on the first section was estimated at 600 million shares , down from 1.03 billion shares Friday . 
The selective approach blurred themes such as domestic-demand issues , large-capitalization issues or high-technology shares , which had been providing at least some trading direction over the past few weeks , Mr. Wada said . 
Investors took profits on major construction shares , which advanced last week , shifting their attention to some midsize companies such as Aoki Corp. , Tobishima and Maeda . 
Aoki gained 60 yen to 1,480 yen -LRB- $ 10.40 -RRB- . 
Mochida advanced 40 to 4,440 . 
Fujisawa continued to attract investors because of strong earning prospects stemming from a new immune control agent . Fujisawa gained 50 to 2,060 . 
Fujisawa gained 50 to 2,060 . 
`` It 's better to wait . '' 
The 30-share index closed 11.6 points higher at 1772.6 . 
The DAX index eased 0.99 point to end at 1523.22 after falling 5.5 points early in the session . 
The start of a weeklong conference by the IG Metall metal worker union in Berlin is drawing attention to the impending wage negotiations , which could boost companies ' personnel costs next year , they said . 
The market is still 4 % short of its level before the plunge , and analysts are n't sure how long it will take until the DAX has closed that gap . 
Commerzbank gained 1 to 252.5 . 
Wellington was closed . 
; lending practices vary widely by location . 
Interest income rose 29 % to about $ 1.35 billion from $ 1.05 billion . 
The New York bank holding company 's assets at Sept. 30 climbed to $ 59.4 billion from $ 57.9 billion . 
A number of major banks have posted big losses after sharply increasing loan-loss reserves . 
Revenue rose 5 % to $ 981.7 million from $ 934.7 million . 
Revenue rose 6 % to $ 2.79 billion from $ 2.63 billion . 
A spokeswoman said shipments of truck engines , which provide a higher margin than most of the company 's other products , declined 16 % from a year earlier . 
It traded as high as $ 64 a month ago , before the loss projection . 
The year-before loss was $ 8.4 million , or $ 1.36 a common share . 
Legal strategists say that damage claims against the oil giant and others could well exceed $ 1 billion . 
Litigation , if not settled out of court , could drag on for years . 
The oil company claims that Alaskan officials prevented Exxon from spraying dispersant onto the almost 11 million gallons of oil dumped when one of its tankers ran into an underwater reef . 
Exxon has made them before , at which point the state demonstrated they were untrue . 
The state 's opposition to the use of dispersants , Exxon says , caused the Coast Guard `` to delay granting permission . '' 
Use of dispersants was approved when a test on the third day showed some positive results , officials said . 
`` We are the Golden State , '' Mr. Fazio said , `` and there is a certain amount of jealousy . '' 
A White House budget office analysis estimates that $ 500 million -- or half the level in the committee bill -- is needed for highway assistance to meet California 's needs , and the administration rejects the notion that new appropriations are needed to finance disaster loans by the Small Business Administration . 
`` I would hope very much that we would n't end up in a kind of situation where you have a bidding war and then a veto threat . '' 
A master of pork-barrel politics , he had crafted the $ 2.85 billion package in vintage style and used the full force of his chairmanship to keep the proposal intact and dismiss any alternative . 
On the chairman 's motion , the California package was subsequently reduced to less-binding report language , and even when this was accepted as such on a voice vote , Mr. Whitten pointedly opposed it . 
Mr. Whitten 's package appears to accomplish this purpose , but the state faces more resistance in its bid for an extended waiver on having to put up any matching funds on repairs completed in the next six months . 
The California Democrat appeared embarrassed by provisions inserted on behalf of owners of private beaches in the Virgin Islands , and lumber interests sought to add another $ 100 million in federal aid to plant timber on private land in North and South Carolina . 
One provision last night would have raised the cap on disaster loans to $ 500,000 from $ 100,000 per household to accommodate San Francisco losses . 
Last month its president , John S. Donnelly , resigned citing `` management differences '' with Mr. Kurzweil . 
Per-share earnings are estimated at more than 40 cents , up from 22 cents for fiscal 1988 . 
Shevardnadze said it took Gorbachev 's government four years to determine that the station 's location in Siberia violated the accord , as Western arms-control officials have long contended . 
A crowd estimated at 100,000 held a torch-lit march through Budapest as Acting President Szuros delivered a nationally televised address rejecting communist dominance . 
The five astronauts returned to Earth about three hours early because high winds had been predicted at the landing site . 
Fog shrouded the base before touchdown . 
More than 100 people were injured , and a number of workers were missing . 
Parts of the Houston Ship Channel were closed . 
The statement came after officials said Bush complained at a private meeting last week that a strict interpretation of a policy requires the U.S. to notify foreign dictators of certain coup plots . 
The ministers are to reshape NATO 's defenses in Western Europe amid fast-paced changes in the Soviet bloc . 
Washington rejected the bid , saying the hostages were n't linked to other issues . 
The official stressed that the PLO has n't rejected the five-point formula . 
This time , there are 30 % more shares outstanding . 
It said it will buy back two million shares , or 18.4 % , of the total outstanding , and continue operations buying and managing real estate . 
The company said it did n't receive an offer it wanted to accept . 
Belo said it increased its effective tax rate to 52 % from 47 % to account for potential liabilities related to an Internal Revenue Service investigation of its tax returns for the years 1984 through 1988 . 
Revenue grew almost 8 % to $ 301.9 million from $ 279.8 million last year . 
United Education & Software , a Los Angeles education services company , called the commission 's action `` precipitous and unwarranted . '' 
United Education & Software posted a $ 250,000 bond against potential losses to the student aid commission and to taxpayers in guaranteeing any more loans for National Technical Schools students prior to the hearing . 
Sales slipped 1.3 % to $ 2.82 billion from $ 2.86 billion . 
Sales eased 0.2 % to $ 8.88 billion from $ 8.90 billion . 
Earnings for the group declined to $ 11 million from $ 33 million last year . 
In the year-ago quarter , the software developer reported pro forma earnings of $ 4.8 million , or 24 cents a share . 
Revenue for fiscal 1989 is expected to exceed $ 124 million . 
Remaining units will be sold to the underwriters , Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. and Kidder , Peabody & Co. , which will also purchase an over-allotment of 2.3 million additional units . 
The two developments leave the airline with several problems , including an unsettled labor situation . 
The Dow Jones industrials sank 26.23 points , to 2662.91 . 
The dollar also declined . 
Even Drexel is pulling back . 
Phillips and Arco posted declines . 
Ashland had a loss . 
Amerada Hess and Occidental Petroleum had gains . 
His resignation follows a hostile takeover of the ad agency in May by WPP of Britain . 
Some may try to revoke the firm 's license to sell securities . 
The changes apply to prosecutions brought under the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations law . 
They argue that the rights of RICO defendants and third parties not named in RICO indictments have been unfairly damaged . 
`` That means that if the offense deals with one part of the business , you do n't attempt to seize the whole business ; you attempt to seize assets related to the crime , '' he explained . 
; you attempt to seize assets related to the crime , '' he explained . 
`` Every witness receives a formal subpoena , '' Rep. Gonzalez told him . 
Mr. Keating arranged nearly $ 1 million in donations to Sen. Cranston and his various political causes , and hundreds of thousands more to other lawmakers . 
`` When you reach a point where a policy-making body is trying to shape administrative decisions , then that 's a no-no in my book , '' the Texas lawmaker says . 
`` Unless the questions are answered , I will keep on going . '' 
He comes from the same political line as Wright Patman , a bank-baiting Texas populist who chaired the Banking Committee until 1974 . 
Early in his political career , as a city councilman in San Antonio , he walked out of a meeting when political supporters asked that the police chief be replaced , denouncing the closed-door affair publicly as a `` bat-roost meeting . '' 
As the principal regulator of the thrift industry , Mr. Wall delayed seizing Lincoln S&L for more than two years after his staff told him that the California thrift was insolvent and that potential losses to taxpayers were growing rapidly . 
`` I think he is trying to improperly influence a witness , and by God I 'm not going to tolerate it , '' he says . 
An inquiry into his handling of Lincoln S&L inevitably will drag in Sen. Cranston and the four others , Sens. Dennis DeConcini -LRB- D. , Ariz. -RRB- , John McCain -LRB- R. , Ariz. -RRB- , John Glenn -LRB- D. , Ohio -RRB- and Donald Riegle -LRB- D. , Mich . -RRB- . 
They all attended a meeting in April 1987 questioning why a federal audit of Lincoln S&L had dragged on for two years . 
`` I 'm certain that in the course of the hearings the names -LCB- of the senators -RCB- will be brought out , '' Mr. Gonzalez says . 
`` When I first got a glimpse at the witness list , I could n't believe that they were going to go ahead and do this , '' says Michael Waldman , director of Congress Watch , a consumer group . 
`` There are some witnesses who will be forced to testify about their meetings with senators . '' 
Mr. Keating lives in Phoenix , and the California thrift 's parent is an Ohio-chartered corporation with holdings in Michigan . 
`` He 's wise , he 's good and I know he 's an honest man , '' the Texan says . 
Most importantly , the Senate traded away the Bush administration 's controversial plan to finance the bailout , which was partly reinstated later . 
Now Mr. Gonzalez is holding the equivalent of reconfirmation hearings anyway , under the guise of the Lincoln investigation . 
`` In a way , that 's what this is , '' Mr. Gonzalez concedes . 
Mr. Keating raised $ 20,000 for Rep. Doug Barnard 's 1986 re-election campaign while the Georgia Democrat was taking his side against regulators who wanted to curb risky investments and wholesale deposit brokering . 
He recently voted `` present '' when the committee authorized a subpoena to compel Mr. Keating to testify , then changed his vote to yes . 
Rep. Jim Leach -LRB- R. , Iowa -RRB- says the Lincoln S&L affair is `` the biggest bank heist in history , '' and adds : `` The great question that remains to be resolved is whether we have a congressional Watergate in the making . '' 
`` I do n't know whether it was done properly or not , because I 'm not a lawyer , '' he said in a telephone interview yesterday . 
They 'd actually left the Soviet Union with $ 480 , but during a stop in Italy Ms. Volokh dropped $ 80 on a black velvet suit . 
Not surprisingly , she quickly adapted to the American way . 
Three months after she arrived in L.A. she spent $ 120 she did n't have for a hat . 
-LRB- `` A turban , '' she specifies , `` though it was n't the time for that 14 years ago . 
Her husband and older son -- a computer prodigy profiled in The Wall Street Journal in 1981 , when he was 13 -- run a software company with expected sales this year of $ 10 million . 
Most recently , she has become the publisher of Movieline , a four-year-old Los Angeles magazine that began national distribution last month , with an initial press run of 100,000 copies . 
`` You have to be born with it . 
I used to wear hats in Russia , but I had to make them and my dresses . 
On the hat side I was n't getting what I wanted . '' 
At Movieline , she wants `` specific paragraphing , specific tone , a specific attitude -- bright and bold and tongue-in-cheek . '' 
In restaurants -LRB- in this case , the Russian Samovar , a New York restaurant operated by and for Soviet emigres -RRB- , she did n't want the chirpy , folkish music bouncing through the room . 
`` You people here think this is Russian music , '' she said with disdain , and called over to the waitress : `` Could you turn it off ? '' 
`` Parties are rather a state of mind , '' she said , pausing only to taste and pass judgment on the Georgian shashlik -LRB- `` a little well done , but very good '' -RRB- . 
`` If you are born to give parties , you give parties . 
Even in Russia we managed to give parties . 
In Los Angeles , in our lean years , we gave parties . '' 
She has thrown extravagant soirees for crowds of people , but prefers more intimate gatherings . 
`` At American cocktail parties everyone 's always looking over your shoulder to see who they can talk to next . 
She serves high Russian tea , at 5 p.m . 
`` It 's supposed to be later but I just moved it . 
In Los Angeles , it 's important to catch people just after work . '' 
Guests bring movies on tape , and show their favorite three-to-five minute segments on the screen that unrolls from the ceiling of the Volokhs ' art-nouveau library -LRB- `` the pleasure dome '' -RRB- . 
They eat `` sinful and sensual things '' -- and explain their clips . 
Mr. Krutchensky approached Ms. Volokh five years ago about backing the publication , which started out as a listing guide . 
She was interested only if she could guide it editorially as well . 
`` She wants things to be exciting . 
She 'll think of an idea the editorial people think is impossible , then she 'll have us make it work . '' 
Back in the Soviet Union she was a respected journalist , writing a weekly column about the national cuisine for Sunday Izvestia . 
Those columns -- vivid discussions of the cultural and literary reverberations of food as well as practical advice on how to glamorize dreary Sovietized meals -- became the basis for her erudite and entertaining cookbook , `` The Art of Russian Cuisine , '' brought out in 1983 by Macmillan Publishing Co . 
`` Look at Dostoevski and Kafka . 
No one ever eats in their books and look at them ... . 
In her cookbook , which Macmillan is bringing out in soft cover this month -LRB- with the blini recipe revised so it works -RRB- , she introduces each chapter with appropriate quotations from Russian literature : Pushkin on blini , Goncharov on piroghi . 
In life , she offers practical dieting advice : `` Divide your meals into important and unimportant . 
In a great restaurant , do n't deprive yourself . 
The other meals do n't matter . '' 
Her mother was a translator ; her father was `` the eternal vice director . '' 
; her father was `` the eternal vice director . '' 
You try to maintain your dignity under difficult circumstances . 
One can not imagine how you live when you live those double and triple lives . '' 
Ms. Volokh quit her job , to remove herself from the public eye . 
Before granting Ms. Volokh 's parents a visa , the government required her mother to obtain permission from her first husband , whom she had divorced 38 years earlier . 
The Volokhs were afraid that they 'd end up like a friend of theirs who 'd applied for a visa and waited for 10 years , having been demoted from his profession of theoretical mathematician to shipping clerk . 
Their visa came in relatively short order , and they moved to Los Angeles . 
Mr. Volokh soon found work in his field , but Ms. Volokh refused the obvious and available occupation - as translator for a Russian who spoke fluent English . 
`` That 's always looking back , '' she said . 
`` I wanted to be in business . '' 
On the way to that goal , she received her first U.S. paycheck for proofreading a book of Polish poetry , attended secretarial school , then went to work for a fund-raising organization . 
Soon she was running the office . 
`` Things work out unexpectedly in life , '' said Ms. Volokh . 
`` You never know if you 'll be chosen to be the scapegoat or the lucky one . 
`` It 's an extremely complex market , and you have to be prepared to make a big commitment , '' Mr. Forrester says . 
`` We are not trying to encourage everyone . '' 
Doing business with the Russians , once the pursuit of a handful of hardened veterans , has become the goal of such major companies as General Motors Corp. , Federal Express Corp. and Procter & Gamble Co. , as well as a cluster of smaller firms . 
Reflecting the new-found interest , more than 140 U.S. companies are taking part in a Moscow exhibition organized by Mr. Forrester 's trade group . 
Alongside the old problems of a non-convertible currency and an inpenetrable bureaucracy , Western business executives must now grapple with new complexities linked to perestroika , the restructuring of the Soviet economy . 
Changing legislation has opened the field to thousands of inexperienced Soviet players , many who promise more than they can deliver . 
Over the past two years , Soviet ministries have been talking to international firms , including Occidental Petroleum Co. and Combustion Engineering Inc. of the U.S. , Montedison S.p.A. of Italy and several Japanese groups , about jointly building and operating several big petrochemical plants . The plans have come under fire from Soviet environmentalists , and officials say many are likely to be scaled back or dropped . 
The plans have come under fire from Soviet environmentalists , and officials say many are likely to be scaled back or dropped . 
For political as well as economic reasons , U.S. companies are at the top of his priorities -- a point he underscored by spending two hours walking around the U.S. trade show last week . 
The U.S. ranks fourth of countries that have concluded joint ventures , behind West Germany , Finland and Italy . 
Hundreds of people lined up every day at the Colgate-Palmolive Co. stand to receive a free tube of toothpaste , a commodity in chronically short supply here . 
Both Colgate and Procter & Gamble have received big orders for toothpaste , soap and detergents . 
The American Trade Consortium says it is planning to ship some $ 500 million of consumer goods , financed by bank credits , in the first few months of next year . 
The goal of most U.S. firms -- joint ventures -- remains elusive . 
Because the Soviet ruble is n't convertible into dollars , marks and other Western currencies , companies that hope to set up production facilities here must either export some of the goods to earn hard currency or find Soviet goods they can take in a counter-trade transaction . 
Shelley M. Zeiger , an entrepreneur from New Jersey who buys Soviet porcelain and `` matryoshka '' nesting dolls for export to the U.S. , says West German companies already have snapped up much of the production of these items . 
Several medical concerns , including Pfizer Inc. , Hewlett-Packard Co. , Colgate and Abbott Laboratories intend to pursue a similar consortium approach . 
One group seeks to publish a U.S.-Soviet medical journal in conjunction with the U.S.S.R. Ministry of Health . 
According to Richard P. Mills , a Boston-based official of the U.S. partner , 10,000 copies of the quarterly will be printed in Russian from next year . 
`` It 's truly entrepreneurial . 
Credit Agricole officials could n't be immediately reached for comment . 
Nuovo Banco 's second largest shareholder , the Fiat S.p.A.-controlled investment concern , Gemina S.p.A. , fought to have Generali 's offer approved . 
Gemina , which owns 13.26 % of Nuovo Banco , abstained in the final vote on Credit Agricole , which was nonetheless approved by a majority of shareholders . 
Since then , the bank has strengthened its Italian network , and has posted strong results . 
A company spokeswoman said the company had n't decided what measures to take , but did n't rule out legal action . 
Qintex Australia has n't disclosed its borrowings , but analysts estimate the company 's debt at A$ 1.2 billion . 
He said the move will `` significantly reduce administrative and operating costs , '' but he did n't provide details of the merger . 
Analysts predicted that the move would further shake creditor confidence in Qintex Australia and force it to sell assets . 
It said Qintex Entertainment owes Qintex Australia US$ 38.1 million in loans not secured by specific assets . 
The shares traded at about A$ 1.50 in March , when the plan to acquire MGM\/UA was announced . 
In his statement , Mr. Skase said preliminary accounts showed that group profit before interest , tax and depreciation `` will exceed A$ 170 million . '' 
He gave no further details . 
Mr. Skase said most of the money went to other parties for expenses such as rent and travel , but a smaller portion is owed to senior executives and others for management services . 
Two of the directors resigned , Mr. Skase said , so the payments have n't yet been approved . 
The chips use materials , such as lead zirconate titanate , to form microscopic switches that retain their data without electricity . 
In addition to not needing an outside power source , they are potentially cheaper to make because they require fewer manufacturing steps than conventional chips . 
That means huge travel bills . 
Video Telecom Corp. , which markets videoconferencing systems , is working with court reporters to wire a nationwide network to allow depositions by live television . 
Now at least one Japanese company is turning the courtroom tables . 
Hitachi charges Motorola `` has engaged in fraudulent and inequitable conduct in the procurement of certain Motorola patents '' used in Motorola 's MC68030 microprocessor chip . 
Using reduced instruction-set computing , or RISC , chips made by Intergraph of Huntsville , Ala. , the system splits the image it `` sees '' into 20 digital representations , each processed by one chip . 
Tandy 's stock fell $ 1.375 a share to close at $ 44 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading . 
The company said earnings would have increased if it had n't been actively repurchasing its shares , thus increasing its interest expense and reducing its interest income . 
Tandy had 86.3 million shares outstanding at Sept. 30 , down from 90 million a year earlier . 
He said Tandy `` has done a decent job '' increasing sales by manufacturing computers for others and expanding sales of its Grid Systems Corp. subsidiary , which sells computers to bigger businesses , but `` it 's not enough to offset the problems at Radio Shack . '' 
Sales at Radio Shack stores open more than a year grew only 2 % in the quarter from a year earlier , he said . 
Tandy earned $ 88.8 million , or $ 3.64 a share , in the year ended June 30 . 
Mr. Bryant and other analysts hope all those moves will combine to help Tandy 's results improve in the important Christmas quarter . 
`` If the earnings acceleration is to take place , that should be the quarter . 
He said Drexel -- the leading underwriter of high-risk junk bonds -- could no longer afford to sell any junk offerings if they might later become troubled because Drexel risked losing its highly lucrative junk franchise . 
Although the big investment bank still dominates the junk market , Drexel has been unable to stem the fallout from growing junk bond defaults , withdrawn new offerings , redemptions by shareholders in junk bond mutual funds and an exodus of once-devoted investors . 
`` This is the worst shakeout ever in the junk market , and it could take years before it 's over , '' says Mark Bachmann , a senior vice president at Standard & Poor 's Corp. , a credit rating company . 
Since the end of last year , junk bonds have been outperformed by all categories of investment-grade bonds , including ultra-safe Treasury securities . 
The fragile market received its biggest jolt last month from Campeau Corp. , which created its U.S. retailing empire with more than $ 3 billion in junk financing . 
Campeau developed a cash squeeze that caused it to be tardy on some interest payments and to put its prestigious Bloomingdale 's department store chain up for sale . 
At that point , the junk market went into a tailspin as buyers disappeared and investors tried to sell . 
`` What I thought I was saying is that the market is troubled but still viable and , appropriately enough , quite quality-conscious , which is not at all bad , '' he says . 
`` Nobody 's been perfect in their credit judgments the past couple years , and we 're going to make sure our default rates are going to be in the acceptable parameters of the market . '' 
Unlike the New York Stock Exchange , where buyers and sellers are quickly matched , the junk market , where risky corporate loans are traded , is sometimes closed for repairs . 
In recent months , they say , there has been heavy selling of junk bonds by some of the market 's traditional investors , while new buyers have n't materialized to replace them . 
Co. ; declines in these benchmark issues have contributed to the market 's distress . 
`` We certainly do have a lack of liquidity here , and it 's something to be concerned about , '' says James A. Gregoire , a managing director . 
`` I have no reason to think things will get worse , but this market has a knack for surprising us . 
This market teaches us to be humble . '' 
The big insurer , unlike Prudential , owns only about $ 150 million of publicly sold junk bonds . 
`` If anything , we 're going to see defaults increase because credit ratings have declined , '' says Paul Asquith , associate professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology 's Sloan School of Management . 
His study showed that junk bonds over time had a cumulative default rate of 34 % . 
Mr. Cornell has just completed a study that finds that the risks and returns of junk bonds are less than on common stocks but more than on investment-grade bonds . 
Mr. Cornell says : `` The junk market is no bonanza as Drexel claimed , but it also is n't a disaster as the doomsayers say . '' 
Troubled Drexel-underwritten issues include Resorts International , Braniff , Integrated Resources , SCI TV , Gillette Holdings , Western Electric and Southmark . 
Like which are droppable and which are not . 
-LRB- In case you have forgotten , his name was Rudolph Dirks . -RRB- 
`` It can be an avenue of entrance to a certain sector of society ... . 
It provides some people a needed sense of affiliation and can help open up a conversation with someone you do n't know . '' 
I knew it was someone important , so I followed her into the ladies room and sure enough , it was Liza . 
`` They ca n't help talking about the big important people they know , even if they do n't really know them , '' says Dr. Freudenberger . 
`` I guess I might have asked Beauregard to leave , but he drops so many good names , we decided to let him stay , '' says Steven Greenberg , publisher of Fame . 
`` After all , Warhol was the ultimate namedropper , dropping five a day in his diaries . 
These droppers do n't flaunt only their friendships with the Trumps , Brooke Astor or Georgette Mosbacher . 
`` They even drop semi-obscure names like Wolfgang Flottl , whom everybody these days apparently has heard of but no one really knows , '' says Mr. Revson . 
`` It 's the one-upsmanship of name-dropping that counts . '' 
In the name of civic pride and from the desire to nullify a negative image , some city promoters seek to link their municipality with the most recognizable names the city has to offer . 
It has gotten a bad rep because its once heavily polluted Cuyahoga River caught fire , because former Mayor Ralph Perk set his hair on fire with an acetylene torch and because its proposed Rock 'n' Roll Hall of Fame was recently refused an urban-development grant . 
Some people call it `` The Mistake on the Lake '' -- Lake Erie , that is . 
`` Power names like that do n't hurt the city 's reputation , '' Mr. Miller says . 
`` Why we even just sold a three-bedroom house in Van Nuys and were able to keep the price firm in a weak real-estate market by noting that the original Lone Ranger lived there , '' says David Rambo , a sales associate with Jon Douglas Co. , a Los Angeles real-estate agency . 
`` Most people ca n't even remember his name . '' 
`` If Flynn had n't lived there , the property might have been priced $ 1 million lower , '' says Mr. Rambo , noting that Flynn 's house has been bulldozed , and only the swimming pool remains . 
Len Kessler , a financial publicist in New York , sometimes uses it to get the attention of journalists who try to avoid him . 
He says that when Dan Dorfman , a financial columnist with USA Today , has n't returned his phone calls , he leaves messages with Mr. Dorfman 's office saying that he has an important story on Donald Trump , Meshulam Riklis or Marvin Davis . 
Jeffry Thal , a publicity agent for the Lantz Office in Los Angeles , warns that dropping the wrong name labels the dropper as a fake and a fraud . 
`` Get caught and you 're dead in the water , '' says Mr. Thal . 
If directors or producers phone me and say they know ` Liz , ' I know they 've never met her . 
She prefers ` Elizabeth . ' '' 
That 's because they only drop `` mere names , '' says Mr. Churchill . 
`` When you 're at the club , you ask whether they 've spoken to ` G . ' 
Now they know who you mean and you know who you mean . 
Now that 's name-dropping , if you know what I mean . 
Now there are 23 . 
Under construction is the strip 's 24th showroom , the future home of Lexus , a luxury marque launched by Toyota Motor Corp. just two months ago . 
Americans now can choose among 572 different models of cars , vans and trucks , up from just 408 when the decade began , according to Automotive News , a trade publication . 
For American car buyers , the proliferation of choice is both liberating and confusing . 
He says the number of automobile choices is causing stress among consumers today , and that people will simply ignore new models that lack a well-defined image . 
`` The winners , '' he predicts , `` will be brands from car makers that have traditionally been associated with quality and value . '' 
He applauds Toyota and Nissan Motor Co. for creating separate divisions for their new luxury models , rather than simply adding more nameplates to their standard car lines . 
`` There 's more noise out there , and the consumer may have to work harder to cut through it , '' says Vincent P. Barabba , executive director of market research and planning at General Motors Corp . 
`` That seems to be what all my friends are using to take the grandkids to the lake , '' she says . 
The legendary GM chairman declared that his company would make `` a car for every purse and purpose . '' 
Just four years ago , GM planners divided the combined car and truck market into seven segments . 
Today , they identify 19 distinct segments for cars , and another 11 for trucks and vans . 
; virtually every auto maker wants to sell here . 
For every brand like Renault or Fiat that has been squeezed out , others such as Isuzu , Daihatsu and Mitsubishi have come in . 
GM launched the Geo marque this year to sell cars made in partnership with foreign auto makers , and next year GM 's long-awaited Saturn cars will make their debut . 
Ford Motor Co. created the Merkur nameplate in 1985 to sell its German-made touring sedans in the U.S. . 
The Wall Street Journal 's `` American Way of Buying '' survey found that 53 % of today 's car buyers tend to switch brands . 
It 's hard to generalize , but age seems to be the best predictor . 
Adults under age 30 like sports cars , luxury cars , convertibles and imports far more than their elders do . 
Three of every 10 buyers under 30 would prefer to buy a sports car , compared with just 16 % of adults 30 and over , according to the Journal survey . 
That 's true of only 14 % of households headed by someone 60 or older . 
`` For many baby boomers , buying a domestic car is a totally foreign experience , '' says Christopher Cedergren , auto-market analyst with J.D. Power & Co. of Agoura Hills , Calif . 
Only 58 % of Americans now believe that foreign cars get better gas mileage than domestic models , the Journal survey found , down from 68 % in 1987 . 
Some 46 % give foreign cars higher quality ratings , down from 50 % two years ago . 
`` Once buying habits are formed , they 're very hard to break , '' declares Thomas Mignanelli , executive vice president for Nissan 's U.S. sales operations . But out on Cobb Parkway , Ted Negas sees it differently . 
`` The competition is so intense that an owner 's loyalty to a dealership or a car is virtually nonexistent , '' says Mr. Negas , vice president of Ed Voyles Oldsmobile , one of the first dealerships to locate on the strip . 
Ed Voyles Olds recently established a special section in the service department for owners whose cars are less than a year old , so they get quicker service . 
Just down the street , Chris Volvo invites serious shoppers to test-drive a new Volvo to any other dealership along the strip , and compare the cars side-by-side . 
GM 's Cadillac division , ignoring Detroit 's long-held maxim that safety does n't sell , is airing television commercials touting its cars ' safety features . 
Some 60 % of the survey respondents said they would buy anti-lock brakes even if they carry a medium or high price tag . 
More than 50 % felt the same way about air bags . 
Both features appealed most to buyers under 45 . 
GM 's Pontiac division is offering a turbo-charged V-6 engine on its Grand Prix model , even though it expects to sell only about 4,000 cars equipped with that option . 
The reason : Items with narrow appeal can be important in a market as fragmented as today 's . 
`` Even if it 's only 1 % , '' says GM 's Mr. Barabba , `` would you throw away sales the size of Polaroid ? '' 
Days later , the thieves returned and dug out more , this time adding insult to injury . 
`` The second time , '' he says , `` they left the shovel . '' 
Just last week , would-be thieves damaged three Sagos at Mr. Whitelock 's home in the Eagle Rock section before something frightened them off , foiled . 
The Sago has become a popular accent in tony new housing tracts , apparently giving the rustlers a ready market for their filched fronds . 
The department is advising residents to plant Sagos , if they must , in the back yard and telling nurseries to be on the lookout for anyone trying to palm one off . 
After three Sagos were stolen from his home in Garden Grove , `` I put a big iron stake in the ground and tied the tree to the stake with a chain , '' he says proudly . 
The highest level was in June 1989 , when a daily average of 22.1 million shares traded in program strategies . 
Program trading amounted to 12.3 % of average daily volume in June . 
Of Morgan Stanley 's 66.8 million shares in program trades for the month , 53.1 million were in stock-index arbitrage trades . 
Imperial said in a statement it expects other complaints to be filed in the wake of the original suit and a recent article in Barron 's magazine that focused on the company 's problems . 
Spokesmen at Drexel and First Executive said the companies had n't yet been served with the suit . 
He notes that industry executives have until now worried that they would face a severe shortage of programs once consumers begin replacing their TV sets with HDTVs . 
It 's estimated that just about 250 hours of HD programming is currently available for airing . 
Consumers will be able to switch on their HDTV sets and get all the viewing benefits the high-tech medium offers . 
If HDTV takes off in the U.S. , there will be demand for some 4,000 to 5,000 HDTV converters , known in the industry as telecines . 
Demand will come first from programming production companies and then from television stations . 
They ca n't afford to stay out of HDTV . '' 
The U.S. electronics industry estimates that the HDTV market will total about $ 150 billion over the next two decades , with an additional $ 400 billion expected to go for related products . 
Experts estimate the first sets of HDTVs wo n't be available for another five to 10 years , and will probably retail for more than $ 3,000 each in today 's dollars . 
Some critics say they wo n't be quickly embraced by consumers because of the high price . 
`` Kodak understands HDTV is where everybody is going , '' says RIT 's Mr. Spaull . 
Devotees pass hours , watching the lights blink and listening to the metal balls ping , as much to gamble as to get a little time to be anonymous , alone with their thoughts . 
In 1984 , an attempt was made to crack down on the industry with tougher restrictions . 
The proposal split the industry in two , along the lines of national origin : North Koreans oppose the plan while South Koreans , Japanese and Taiwanese accept it or are neutral . 
The magazine alleged that in making the donations , the pachinko industry may have been offering bribes to win support in the battle against prepaid cards , or it may have been laundering money back and forth between the JSP and the North Korean residents ' organization , the Chosen Soren . 
; as with the Recruit scandal , lists began circulating with names of people who had received money . 
On Friday , the chief cabinet secretary announced that eight cabinet ministers had received five million yen from the industry , including 450,000 yen -LRB- $ 3,175 -RRB- by Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu . 
No one has alleged that the donations were by themselves illegal . 
They say it s possible some of their members may be donating privately . 
Unfortunately , his mother had tickets for a recital by Itzhak Perlman the same night , and she was adamant about his attending . 
`` I threw such a fit , '' says Mr. McDuffie , who had begun violin studies at the age of six . 
At 31 , Mr. McDuffie has a rich , full-bodied tone , an admirable rhythmic precision and an increasingly busy schedule . 
Later this season he gives a recital at Washington 's Kennedy Center , and appears as soloist with several major orchestras . 
His violin classmates included Shlomo Mintz , a protege of Isaac Stern who performed with major orchestras while still a student ; Cho-Liang Lin , who joined the roster of ICM Artists Inc. at the age of 18 ; and Nadja Salerno-Sonnenberg , who launched her career by winning the 1981 Naumberg Competition . 
`` I did n't learn to count until I got to Juilliard . '' 
`` In my freshman year , my roommate was known as a party animal . 
She thought I was n't getting my practicing done . '' 
As the violinist tells it , his grandmotherly looking teacher `` put her hands on her hips , stomped her foot and said , ` You 've just got to get the -LCB- expletive deleted -RCB- out of there . ' '' 
Miss DeLay requested that he come to her studio with a tape of the recital . 
That 's the only note that 's truly in tune ... ' . '' 
Now , when I play with orchestras , the musicians often compliment me on my intonation . '' 
After winning a school competition with a performance of the latter 's `` Violin Concerto , '' Mr. McDuffie was invited to play the work for the composer , who was dying of cancer . 
I do n't know why Barber never told anybody else . 
On Isaac Stern 's recording it 's very biting . '' 
His guest appearance on the NBC soap opera `` Another World , '' scandalized musical elitists . 
Aided by the fluid playing of the St. Louis Symphony under Leonard Slatkin 's direction , this `` Serenade '' really swings . 
Mr. Schuman 's `` Violin Concerto , '' which sounds more like a mildly atonal rhapsody for solo violin with orchestral accompaniment , meanders until the propulsive `` Agitato , fervente . '' 
His performance was so effusive and driven that the phrases rarely breathed . 
The 35-member Sinfonia played adroitly with a big , lush sound that belied its size . 
`` A normal person did not write the Beethoven ` Violin Concerto , ' '' he declares . 
`` Even when I hear it played badly , I 'm still humbled by the piece . 
If I could ever feel I 've contributed to it in some way , then all the hard work has been worth it . '' 
A sudden , forced cutback by consumers , who normally account for about two-thirds of economic activity , would damp the economy at a time when plant-and-equipment spending is slowing and deficit-racked governments ca n't readily take up the slack . 
During the almost seven-year-old economic expansion , inflation-adjusted gross national product , disposable personal income and personal consumption expenditures have risen 30 % , but inflation-adjusted consumer installment credit has surged 66 % . 
In a paper presented at the recent annual meeting of the National Association of Business Economists in San Francisco , Mr. Durkin comments that `` installment credit always grows rapidly in cyclical advances , and growth in this cycle is very typical of earlier experiences . '' 
He adds : `` We are now witnessing a slowdown which , if history is a guide , could persist for a while . '' 
Mr. Durkin doubts that `` there is some magic level '' at which the ratio of installment debt to disposable income `` indicates economic problems . '' 
The ratio of consumer installment credit to disposable income , though up a bit , has n't climbed steeply , and such debt as a percent of household assets is little changed . 
He notes that some `` revolving credit-card credit is actually convenience credit '' being used simply as a handy way of paying bills rather than a handy way of borrowing . 
`` The most frequent use is home improvement , which presumably improves the value of the property , '' Mr. Durkin says . 
In July , consumer installment credit outstanding fell for the first time since January 1987 . 
`` There are very few companies that can boast of such a close-knit group , '' says Robert A. Brawer , 52 years old , recently named president , succeeding Beatrice Coleman , his mother-in-law , who remains chairman . 
`` We are a vanishing breed , '' he muses . 
Its current ad campaign , on which Maidenform has spent more than $ 15 million since fall 1987 , does n't even show its underwear products , but rather men like Christopher Reeve , star of the `` Superman '' movies , talking about their lingerie turn-ons . 
Maidenform generated such memorable campaigns as `` I dreamed I ... in my Maidenform bra , '' and `` The Maidenform woman . You never know where she 'll turn up . '' 
Although working women are `` forced to wear the uniform of the day , to retain their femininity they are buying better quality , more upscale intimate apparel , '' he said . 
Three days later , Mr. Lesk was named president and chief executive officer of Olga Co. , a competing intimate apparel division of Warnaco Inc . 
`` If you want the presidency of the company , this is n't the firm to work for , '' says James Mogan , 45 , who was named senior vice president of sales , assuming some of the responsibilities of Mr. Lesk . 
`` You ca n't go anywhere in this company and find an organizational chart , '' one delights . 
`` It is fun competing as a private company , '' Mr. Brawer says . 
`` You can think long range . '' 
Warnaco was taken private by Spectrum Group in 1986 for about $ 487 million . 
When he gets calls , `` I do n't even have to consult '' with Mrs. Coleman , Mr. Masket says . 
`` Over the past three and a half years , apparel companies , many of whom have strong brand names , have been bought at about 60 % of sales , '' says Deborah Bronston , Prudential-Bache Securities Inc. apparel analyst . 
Mr. Brawer 's wife , Catherine , and Robert Stroup , Elizabeth 's husband , round out the five-member board . 
In the late 1960s she designed a lightweight stretch bra that boosted sales . 
Mrs. Coleman 's husband , Joseph , a physician , succeeded Mrs. Rosenthal as president and served in that post until his death in 1968 . 
The $ 14 billion of reserves China had in June would cover just that much . 
The $ 14 billion level in June marked a drop from $ 19 billion at the end of April . 
China 's last big import binge sent reserves tumbling to $ 10.6 billion in June 1985 from $ 16.6 billion the previous September . 
Revenue from tourism this year is projected to total $ 1.3 billion , down from $ 2.2 billion last year . 
Because of this and the huge trade gap , the deficit in China 's current account , which measures trade in goods and services plus certain unilateral transfers of funds , is expected to widen sharply from the $ 3.8 billion deficit last year . 
In 1985 , China had a record deficit of $ 11.4 billion . 
In this case , China would still finish the year with a current-account deficit of $ 8.7 billion , based on projections that imports for all of this year grow 20 % and exports 10 % . 
Even if borrowing resumes , commercial bankers are n't expected to lend as much as before . 
On top of all this , foreign-debt repayments are expected to peak in 1991 to 1992 . 
The Western government report 's first scenario assumes a 30 % reduction in foreign borrowing and a 5 % contraction in foreign direct investment . 
In the second , foreign borrowing is projected to grow 10 % and investment to drop 10 % . 
In the first scenario , the reserves would be exhausted next year , and in the second they would be wiped out in 1991 . 
At 18,000 feet , he says , he and his co-pilot `` were looking for an interstate or a cornfield '' to land . 
Had he been a little less gung-ho , `` I 'd have gotten the thing on the ground and headed for the nearest bar , '' Mr. Brown says . 
Federal 's employees work long hours and seem to thrive on the stress of racing the clock . 
They are a tribute to Federal 's management which , since the company 's founding 16 years ago , has had its way with its work force -- an unusual feat in the contentious transportation industry . 
This month , Federal 's 2,048 pilots , including some 961 acquired along with Tiger International Inc. in February , will decide whether to elect the powerful Air Line Pilots Association as their bargaining agent . 
The election , which would bring the first major union to Federal 's U.S. operations , has pitted new hires against devoted veterans such as Mr. Brown . 
`` In our formula , we do n't have any losers except the competition . '' 
Under federal transportation law , a government mediator is attempting to reconcile the melding of Tiger 's job classifications into Federal 's . Depending on the outcome , the merged company may face union elections this fall among airplane mechanics , ramp workers , stock clerks and flight dispatchers . 
Depending on the outcome , the merged company may face union elections this fall among airplane mechanics , ramp workers , stock clerks and flight dispatchers . 
Since founding the company , the charismatic Vietnam vet , who is still only 46 years old , has fostered an ethos of combat . 
Flights are `` missions . '' 
Mr. Smith 's managers have , at times , been called `` Ho Chi Minh 's Guerrillas . '' 
The Bravo Zulu award , the Navy accolade for a `` job well done , '' is bestowed on Federal 's workers who surpass the call of duty . 
Competitors are known as the `` enemy . '' 
He gives pep talks in periodic `` family briefings '' beamed internationally on `` FXTV , '' the company 's own television network . 
James Cleveland , a courier who earned a Bravo Zulu for figuring out how to get a major customer 's 1,100-parcel-a-week load to its doorstep by 8 a.m. , considers himself far more than a courier . 
`` We do n't just hand the customer the package . 
That 's just the beginning , '' he says . 
`` In essence , we run the show . '' 
`` Nobody has the right to tell me how much I can work . '' 
The company deliberately understaffs , stretching employees ' schedules to the limit . 
Pilots , as well , routinely fly overtime to ensure that none are furloughed during seasonal lows . 
UPS wo n't discuss its labor practices , but , according to Mr. Cleveland , a former UPS employee , and others , union work rules prohibit UPS drivers from doing more than carrying packages between customers and their vans . 
Because UPS drivers are n't permitted to load their own vehicles at the depot , say these couriers , packages often get buried in the load and are delivered late . 
Although the Tiger acquisition has brought Federal a long way toward becoming the global player it wants to be , it also has brought problems . 
It more than doubled Federal 's long-term debt to $ 1.9 billion , thrust the company into unknown territory -- heavy cargo -- and suddenly expanded its landing rights to 21 countries from four . 
It had hemorrhaged in its attempt to get into Asia , where treaty restrictions forced it to fly some planes half-empty on certain routes . 
On routes to South America , the company had no backup jets to ensure delivery when planes were grounded . 
In Europe , business suffered as Federal bought several local companies , only to have the managers quit . 
Earnings have plummeted , too , in each of the past three quarters . 
In the fiscal first period ended Aug. 31 , profit fell 54 % to $ 30.4 million , or 58 cents a share , mostly because of the Tiger merger , Federal says . 
Since trading as low as $ 42.25 a share in May , Federal 's shares have rallied as high as $ 57.87 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading . 
They closed Friday at $ 53.25 , down 50 cents on the day . 
Tiger itself was founded by a band of gungho airmen who had airlifted supplies `` over the Hump '' from India to China during World War II . 
In the early 1970s , Mr. Smith modeled his fledgling company on Tiger 's innovation of hub-and-spoke and containerized-cargo operations . 
Analysts expect Federal 's earnings to improve again in its fiscal third quarter ending Feb. 28 , when the company should begin benefiting from Tiger 's extra flights , back-up planes and landing rights . 
Until then , they expect the cost of integrating the two carriers to continue crimping profits . 
Although encouraging dialogue between managers and workers , Mr. Smith does n't countenance what he considers insubordination . 
When a large group of pilots once signed petitions opposing work-rule and compensation changes , he called a meeting in a company hangar and dressed them down for challenging his authority . 
Its 6,500 workers , who had battled Tiger 's management for years over givebacks , were union members until the day of the merger , when most of their unions were automatically decertified . 
When the pilots refused , the company retracted it . 
In his haste to seal the deal with Tiger Chairman Saul Steinberg last August , Mr. Smith ignored a promise that he had made to his own pilots three years ago : that any fliers acquired in future mergers would be `` end-tailed '' -- put at the bottom of the pilot seniority list that determines work schedules , pay and career options . 
The Tiger merger agreement stipulated that the lists be combined on the basis of tenure . 
`` A lot of people are identifying a vote for representation as a vote against Fred Smith , '' says J.X. Gollich , a Tiger-turned-Federal pilot and union activist . 
Recently , they have appeared every few weeks in talk-show type videos , countering pro-union arguments . 
In one video , Mr. Smith defended his agreement to merge the pilot-seniority lists . 
He said Mr. Steinberg had insisted that the merger talks move quickly . 
Regulators , as well , might have quashed the deal if Tiger 's pilots had n't been protected , he said . 
It does n't give any particular group the ability to veto change . '' 
The seniority-list controversy , along with the job-classification dispute , has been turned over to the mediator . 
`` They were willing to mistreat us because we had n't shown any moxie , any resistance , '' says William Queenan , a DC-10 pilot and 14-year Federal veteran . 
Adds John Poag , a 727 captain and past chairman of the company-sponsored Flight Advisory Board : `` They 've made all these magnanimous gestures to the Flying Tiger pilots , and for us , nothing . '' 
A large majority of the 961 former Tiger fliers support the union , according to a union study . But though most of the 1,087 Federal pilots are believed opposed , it is unclear just how much their loyalty to Mr. Smith has been eroded . 
Anti-union pilots have held ballot-burning parties . 
Some younger pilots say they have had to endure anti-union harangues by senior pilots while flying across the country . 
Barney Barnhardt , a 727 captain and leader of the pro-union forces , said he has received two anonymous death threats and been challenged to a fight with tire irons by a colleague . 
`` The pilots are either for us or extremely against us , '' he says with a sigh . 
Harsco declined to say what country placed the order . 
In 1983 , Mr. Hastings was found not guilty of accepting a $ 150,000 bribe in a case before him , the central charge on which the Senate convicted him . 
He was found not guilty of three charges , involving accusations that he had improperly disclosed information about a sensitive , government investigation . 
The Senate did n't vote on six lesser charges . 
In an impromptu news conference on the Capitol steps , he denounced the senators ' action . 
For the future , he said he would run for governor of Florida . 
What next for the crusty FBI agent with the heart of gold ? 
A den mother raising some lovable teen models . 
A bunch of tans and bathing suits posing as lovable lifeguards . 
Week by week on `` Mancuso FBI '' -LRB- NBC , Fridays , 10 p.m . ET -RRB- , he pokes around the crime styles of the rich , famous and powerful of the Washington scene -- a loose cannon on deck at the FBI . 
The opening show featured a secretary of defense designate accused of womanizing -LRB- a la John Tower -RRB- . 
When his secretary is found floating dead in the pol 's pool , Mancuso is called in to investigate . 
In this week 's show , there 's an unsafe nuclear weaponsmaking facility -LRB- a la Rocky Flats -RRB- . 
He was n't protecting the Freedom Marchers ; he was tailing them as subversives . 
; he was tailing them as subversives . 
This is not the `` Mississippi Burning '' scenario that thrills his young colleagues : `` Kid , you 've been reading Classic Comics too long , '' Mancuso says . 
Three were chauffeurs for J. Edgar Hoover , and two cleaned his house . '' 
He describes a reporter as `` Miss First Amendment . '' 
He describes a drowned corpse as `` Esther Williams . '' 
He 's the kind of guy who rescues trampled flags . 
Executive Producers Steve Sohmer and Jeff Bleckner -LRB- and writer\/producers Ken Solarz and Steve Bello -RRB- have revved this show up to the breaking point . 
At least once an episode we see protestors marching around screaming slogans . 
At least once Mancuso 's boss yells `` In here -- now , '' and proceeds to dress his investigator down : `` You are a dinosaur ... a hangover in a $ 10 suit ... One more word and you are out on a park bench , mister . '' 
Witnesses shout , scream , pontificate : `` ... a dream that the planet could be saved from itself and from the sadistic dumb creatures who try to tear down every decent man who raises his voice . '' 
`` You twist people 's trust . 
You built your career on prejudice and hate . 
The scars will be here years after the polls close . '' 
You 're the real criminal here ... and what you did was n't just a murder -- it was a crime against humanity . '' 
Now that 's advice the writers should take to heart . 
They have a series with a good character , some interesting , even occasionally surprising plot lines , and they 're ruining it . 
It 's a bizarre and totally inappropriate reaction , all to add more pizzazz to a script that 's already overdosing on pizzazz . 
That 's not plot . 
That 's not character . 
That 's hyperventilating . 
He bangs on the piece of paper in frustration , then turns and walks away . 
It was a profoundly moving moment for series television , and Robert Loggia 's acting resonated in the silence . 
If the show 's creators could just let themselves be quiet for a little , they might just hear it . 
; If I peruse enough , I 've found I 've no time left to heed them ! 
The fields contain recoverable reserves of 435 billion cubic feet of natural gas and four million barrels of oil . 
At least two years ago , the company put 60 million barrels of oil reserves on the block . 
They were either too small or uneconomic to maintain , the company said . 
Not all of those parcels have yet been sold . 
Texaco 's situation had become particularly complex because much of its effort had for years been focused on its brawl with Pennzoil and then on New York investor Carl C. Icahn 's attempt to take over the company . 
Eventually , Texaco , which was forced into bankruptcy proceedings by that litigation , settled its fight with Pennzoil for $ 3 billion in 1986 . 
Actually , Cervantes borrowed that quote from a writer of some 25 centuries earlier : Israel 's King Solomon wrote those words in the Book of Proverbs -LRB- 22:1 -RRB- . 
Exports during the period were $ 7.01 billion , 2.6 % below $ 7.20 billion a year ago . 
A rambunctious shake-up is quickly reshaping Europe 's once-stately insurance business . 
Worried by European Community directives that will remove many of the barriers to cross-border insurance services , starting in mid-1990 , insurers are rushing to find partners and preparing for price wars . 
In West Germany and the Netherlands , insurers are flirting with banks . 
In France , Suez and Axa-Midi Assurances S.A. both have been on the prowl for giant acquisitions ; Suez last month acquired control of Groupe Victoire , the sixth-largest European insurance company , after a takeover battle with Cie . Industrielle . 
; Suez last month acquired control of Groupe Victoire , the sixth-largest European insurance company , after a takeover battle with Cie . Industrielle . 
A `` syndicate '' of shareholders holds just under 50 % of AG , Mr. Lippens said , and members have agreed to give one another the right of first refusal should they sell any AG shares . 
The company says those holdings constitute the third-biggest real-estate portfolio in Belgium . 
Gen. Scowcroft was a member of the Tower Commission , which investigated the Iran-Contra affair . 
He was all too aware of how a large , inadequately supervised NSC staff had spun out of control and nearly wrecked President Reagan 's second term . 
During the coup attempt and its aftermath , NSC staffers were `` stretched very thin , '' says one senior administration official . 
`` It 's a very small shop . '' 
The NSC staff `` does n't have the horsepower that I believe is required to have an effective interagency process , '' says Frank Gaffney , a former Pentagon aide who now runs the Center for Security Policy , a conservative Washington think-tank . 
`` The problem with this administration , I think , is that by design it has greatly diminished , both in a physical sense and in a procedural sense , the role of the NSC . '' 
He had just resigned , at least in part because of a feud with Assistant Secretary of State Bernard Aronson over the administration 's policy on Panama and support for Nicaragua 's Contra rebels . 
Mr. Tomlin , among other things , illegally provided Mr. Lavelle with inside information and documents intended to give Sperry an unfair advantage in the competition , the documents said . 
Charles Gardner , a former Unisys vice president , and James Neal , a former company consultant , have admitted participating in this and other bribery schemes . 
Unisys has said that all of the company officials who participated in improper activities have left the company . 
He plugged the contest on Larry King 's radio show , on Pat Sajak 's television show and on the C-SPAN cable television network . 
He talked about it in every speech he made as he roamed the country promoting his books , which dispense handy how-to advice on using government information for fun and profit . 
After all , he says , `` we 've got like 15 million bureaucrats . '' 
To make matters worse , the lone nomination came from another bureaucrat : A woman from the New York State Department of Taxation and Finance who nominated her boss . 
Newspapers , including this one , have generally ignored his news releases . 
Talk show hosts quickly change the topic . 
`` Is the government not helping anybody ? '' asks Toni Murray , an assistant to Mr. Lesko . 
`` People hate to write , '' he says . 
`` Maybe people do n't believe I want to give this money away . '' 
If he sponsored a contest on how a bureaucrat mishandled something , Mr. Lesko admits , `` I 'd get 5,000 entries . '' 
Among the possible suitors is Italy 's Fiat S.p . A , analysts said last week . 
Ford originally had seen a Saab alliance as a way to expand its presence in the European and U.S. luxury car markets . 
Some European analysts speculated that officials of Saab 's highly profitable Scania truck operation balked at surrendering any of their autonomy . 
Saab and Fiat have worked together in the past , in one case developing jointly a new auto chassis that became the foundation of Saab 's 9000 model , Fiat 's Croma and Lancia 's Thema . 
Jaguar executives said last week they expect to have a friendly alliance with GM wrapped up by the end of the month . 
A GM spokesman said the visit is n't connected to the Jaguar situation . 
Last week , Ford encountered a setback in its effort to broaden its U.S. luxury offerings when it was forced to abandon a four-year-old effort to market its German-built Scorpio sedan in the U.S. as a luxury import under the Merkur brand name . 
On the U.S. over-the-counter market , Jaguar 's American depositary receipts rose 12.5 cents to $ 11.125 . 
Up in his stadium box , their new and controversial owner , Jerral `` Jerry '' Jones , watches anxiously as the team bounds up to the scrimmage line . 
There in the center of the pack is quarterback Troy Aikman , the key to the Cowboys ' comeback strategy . 
`` He 's a genuine Wheaties-box athlete , '' gushes Mr. Jones . 
The crowd groans , Mr. Jones shakes his head , the Cowboys lose the game . 
A few days after that Sept. 17 game , Mr. Aikman broke a finger , sidelining him for weeks . 
Once fat and happy , the Cowboys now are losing games , fans and money . 
Last year , the team ended up $ 2 million in the red on $ 30 million in revenue . 
Nearly half the owners of the 28 National Football League teams are losing money , the result of flat attendance , aging stadiums and -- more than anything -- skyrocketing salaries for star players like Mr. Aikman . 
First-round draft picks have done even better : Average salaries and bonuses for them rose to $ 685,000 this year , up 44 % from 1987 . 
: Average salaries and bonuses for them rose to $ 685,000 this year , up 44 % from 1987 . 
`` It 's a vicious circle , '' says Art Modell , owner of the Cleveland Browns . 
`` One team pays so much and the other pays more . 
We just do n't have that kind of income stream . '' 
Owners , largely complacent in the past , are now almost desperately looking for ways to lower costs and raise revenue -- embracing some revolutionary ideas in the process . 
In Dallas , Mr. Landry has a standing just shy of sainthood . 
: `` A crude obnoxious hick , '' said one writer ; `` a real oink , '' said another ; `` Who in the hell does he think he is ? '' wrote a third . 
; `` a real oink , '' said another ; `` Who in the hell does he think he is ? '' wrote a third . 
; `` Who in the hell does he think he is ? '' wrote a third . 
He quickly cut the team 's bloated administrative staff by half , shut down a Cowboys-owned dance academy and , in July , announced plans to sell Valley Ranch , the team 's 30-acre practice camp and the most lavish training facility in the NFL . 
Mr. Jones calls the ranch `` the Pentagon of Sportdom . '' 
It is a maze of halls that connects film rooms , elaborate spas and weight-training centers that testify to a richer , more free-spending era . 
He likes to tell the yarn of how he got lost on the expansive ranch during an early visit , took refuge in an office and called the front desk for help . 
`` I said , ` Somebody come get me . 
`` It 's just not cost efficient , '' he says . 
The place costs nearly $ 2 million a year to maintain . 
After posting losing seasons in each of the last three years , the Cowboys needed a change , he says . 
An Arkansas native , he started at guard on the undefeated 1964 University of Arkansas team that won a national championship . 
After college , he worked at his father 's insurance company in Little Rock , and in 1966 led an aborted attempt to buy the San Diego Chargers . 
Years later , with cash from the sale of the insurance company , he founded Arkoma Production Corp. , an oil and gas exploration company based in Little Rock . 
He tapped Jimmy Johnson , a teammate on the 1964 University of Arkansas squad and the head coach at the University of Miami , where he led the Hurricanes to five winning seasons and a national championship in 1987 . 
Whatever Mr. Johnson 's talents , in the hearts and minds of many Dallas fans , he is no Tom Landry . 
Seven games -LRB- and , after a loss to the Kansas City Chiefs yesterday , seven losses -RRB- into the season , the `` new '' Cowboys are n't doing any better than the old . 
Average attendance at their games , about 49,000 last year , continues flat . 
He continues to reshuffle the team , trading famed running back Herschel Walker to the Minnesota Vikings this month for a slew of players and future draft picks . 
To try to draw more fans , he has dropped end-zone ticket prices from $ 25 to $ 19 . 
`` If we did n't increase prices , we 'd be in the red . '' 
The sales job seems to be paying off : When he bought the team , only six of the suites had been sold . 
: When he bought the team , only six of the suites had been sold . 
Today , 30 have . 
Last year , the Cowboys ' share of that pie came to $ 17.6 million . 
Mr. Jones is currently trying to jack up the price for those local rights . 
He calls the contracts `` critical to winning in the NFL '' and has played his part in the bidding wars . 
Besides signing Mr. Aikman to a sizable contract , Mr. Jones has agreed to pay rookie quarterback Steve Walsh $ 4.1 million over the next four years . 
Soon , only large corporations will be able to afford to buy and run football teams , predicts John J. Veatch Jr. , an investment banker with Salomon Brothers who handled the Cowboys sale . 
To tackle the problem , NFL owners have proposed setting a rookie wage scale to try to rein in salaries . 
Details of the plan , which would go into effect in 1993 , are sketchy , but each player would apparently be paid a base salary keyed to his position and ability . 
Bonuses would be paid based on playing time and performance . 
Many have launched promotions to attract new fans and are renegotiating dated stadium contracts . 
Most of the owners must pay up to 10 % of gross ticket sales for leases on stadiums they say are either too small or too old . 
`` We 're in a metro area with millions of Bear fans , and only a small number can be accommodated . '' 
When the lease expires in 1999 , he says , `` It 's got to be changed . '' 
Owners say they expect the league to demand a 50 % increase , despite the fact that televised football games have had lackluster ratings . 
Like the game of professional football , the NFL organization itself is in turmoil . 
The new breed of team owner , Mr. Jones included , has been fighting the NFL bureaucracy for a greater say in league affairs , and the battle has produced a form of organizational gridlock . 
In July , 11 NFL owners , almost all of them new , blocked an effort to install Jim Finks as a replacement for retiring league commissioner Pete Rozelle . 
Mr. Finks is perceived by some owners as a standard-bearer for the Old Guard . 
The owners meet again tomorrow . 
He puts in busy six-day weeks -LRB- excluding game days -RRB- , and on one recent afternoon fielded questions , in the course of an hour , from a TV producer , his luxury-suite marketing manager , a disgruntled customer and a roomful of Arkansas reporters . 
To keep his schedule on track , he flies two personal secretaries in from Little Rock to augment his staff in Dallas . 
`` I 'm not here to make money by reselling the team later on . 
While the Cowboys may not be the best investment now , I do n't accept they ca n't be in the future . '' 
Owning the Cowboys has bought him entree to a glitzy life that drilling for oil in Arkansas just did n't provide . 
There is the new private jet , the platoon of assistants , invitations to the best parties , and television appearances on shows such as `` Prime Time Live . '' 
A few weeks ago , Mr. Jones even entertained Elizabeth Taylor in his private suite at Texas Stadium . 
He chastises Jo Franklin-Trout for her inept presentation of advocacy journalism , judging her project as `` intellectually slipshod . '' 
Was not the title very clear ? 
Really now , did she have to ask ? 
; of course the Israelis feel put upon . 
It 's like doing a documentary on apartheid and insisting that equal time be given to how terrific white South Africans are . 
This film did emphasize how long the Israeli\/Palestinian stalemate has existed by tracing the conflict to the days of World War I when the British tried to guarantee both a Jewish state and a Palestinian state without specifying how it was to be done . 
Every issue is multisided . 
`` It 's simply a way of making the cuts less onerous for defense than they are for domestic programs , '' said Chairman James Sasser -LRB- D. , Tenn . -RRB- of the Senate Budget Committee , who said he would oppose the request . 
`` That is n't consistent with the kind of discipline that Gramm-Rudman is supposed to impose , '' he said . 
A Pentagon official said the request was made to give the department `` maximum flexibility '' to deal with the cuts . 
That would give agencies `` less ability ... to fudge over things , '' he told reporters . 
Lawmakers are expected to try to restore the funds once a pending deficit-cutting measure has been signed into law . 
Since June , Rochester Telephone signed letters of intent to purchase three other Wisconsin firms . 
In a July 6 letter to the Senate Securities Subcommittee , First Boston Corp. argued that the fact that no retail brokerage firm failed during the 1987 market crash demonstrates that current rules are adequate . 
An aide to the Senate Securities Subcommittee says some legislators support the concept of risk disclosure , but adds : `` nobody is wedded to the language in the bill . '' 
There is a simple reason for this : the Cuban people . 
Those `` people '' to whom I refer are not some heroic , indecipherable quantity ; they are artists , critics , taxi drivers , grandmothers , even some employees of the Ministry of Culture , all of whom share a deep belief in the original principles of the Cuban Revolution , spelled out in terms such as equality among all members of the society , reverence for education and creative expression , universal rights to health and livelihood , housing , etc . 
; they are artists , critics , taxi drivers , grandmothers , even some employees of the Ministry of Culture , all of whom share a deep belief in the original principles of the Cuban Revolution , spelled out in terms such as equality among all members of the society , reverence for education and creative expression , universal rights to health and livelihood , housing , etc . 
It is on behalf of these people , and out of my real respect for them , that I am responding to Mr. Asman 's opinions of their country . 
They are not interchangeable , since they are motivated to act based on their own circumstances . 
It is naivete to equate a government 's policies with the will of the people -LRB- as we well know -RRB- , and it is even worse folly to merge the clearly divergent agendas of Fidel and the military and the state bureaucracy . 
I think it 's a little disingenuous to be surprised that Fidel does n't invite the U.S. State Department to violate the jurisdiction of the Cuban government over its own territory . 
Without this basic level of attention to reality , our policies on Cuba will continue to be as counterproductive as they have for 30 years . 
There is no rational justification for such behavior . 
Zacks Investment Research did n't adjust one analyst 's estimate for a stock split , which therefore was artificially high . 
Engraph 's third-quarter net income of 15 cents a share actually was 7 % higher than the adjusted average of estimates . 
While that represents a small percentage of the city 's public debt outstanding , Friday 's selling followed a weeklong effort to unload the bonds by a broad spectrum of institutional and individual investors . 
`` Every broker has blocks of every size and maturity . '' 
The fact that the city will issue such a large amount of debt was interpreted as a sign that New York 's budgetary problems are more serious than had been expected . 
New York , one of the nation 's largest issuers of tax-exempt bonds , sold $ 750 million of municipal bonds just a few weeks ago . 
Rumors persisted last week that New York 's credit ratings -- single-A from Moody 's Investors Service Inc. and single-A-minus from Standard & Poor 's Corp. -- are at risk . 
In a study , the comptroller said , `` The city 's glory days are over . '' 
Mr. Regan warned mayoral candidates `` to be prepared for limited options and constraints on service increases to address the city 's problems in the next few years , due to the now-evident weakening in the New York City economy . '' 
At present , analysts project a budget gap on the order of $ 500 million to $ 600 million for the fiscal year ending June 30 , 1990 , although the city 's own budget analysts project a narrower deficit . 
He charges the city 's critics with spreading `` unfounded emotional rhetoric . '' 
Until last week , Mr. Dinkins was considered a shoo-in . 
Now , there have been a number of questions raised . '' 
The stock traded as high as $ 10 this past summer . 
The $ 5.9 million payment was due Oct. 1 and the deadline for default was Oct. 19 . 
MCA on Friday said that as a result of Qintex 's failure to make the required payment it was terminating the distribution agreement on `` The New Leave It to Beaver '' as well as other MCA properties . 
`` We were reassured they would stand behind the company . '' 
At that point , he said , Qintex Australia stated it would `` endeavor to arrange '' the financing . 
He said the company believed Qintex Entertainment 's financial problems could have been resolved by other means . 
`` It 's a shocker , '' said Joseph Di Lillo , chairman of Drake Capital Securities , a brokerage firm that has an investment in Qintex Entertainment . 
Qintex Australia was `` going to pay more than $ 1 billion for MGM\/UA and then they could n't come up with the far smaller sum of $ 5.9 million . '' 
It 's understood that MGM\/UA recently contacted Rupert Murdoch 's News Corp. , which made two failed bids for the movie studio , to see if the company was still interested . 
It is n't a current topic of conversation at the company , '' said Barry Diller , chairman and chief executive officer of the Fox Inc. unit of News Corp . 
The ministry has never even suggested that Japanese banks be cautious about leveraged buy-outs in general , Mr. Utsumi said . 
`` There are no facts -LCB- behind the assertions -RCB- that we sent any kind of signal , '' he declared in an interview . 
A number of accounts of the events leading to the 190 point drop in New York stock prices on Oct. 13 accused the ministry of pulling the plug on the UAL deal for one reason or another . 
He said the inquiry was n't made in a way that the banks could have interpreted as either encouraging or discouraging participation , and he added that none of the Japanese banks changed their posture on the deal as a result of the inquiry . 
`` They are becoming more independent . 
`` We made our own decision , '' he said . 
All week there has been much speculation in financial circles in Tokyo and abroad about the ministry 's real position . 
`` The -LCB- ministry -RCB- wants to see the Japanese banks pull in their horns '' on leveraged buy-outs , he added . 
Japanese banks are under `` political pressure '' as well , the analyst said . 
At a news conference this week , Bank of Japan Gov. Satoshi Sumita cautioned banks to take a `` prudent '' stance regarding highly leveraged deals . 
Despite Mr. Sumita 's statements , it is the Finance Ministry , not the central bank , that makes policy decisions . 
Despite the risks , the deals can be an attractive way for Japanese banks to increase their presence in the U.S. market , bank analysts say . 
Flush with cash at home , but with fewer customers to lend to , leading banks are eager to expand overseas . 
He says that because Seita 's profits are limited by government-controlled cigarette prices , he does n't have the cash to diversify as heavily into food and drink as the U.S. concern has done . 
While Seita does n't own the French tabacs , its close alliance with them offers distribution possibilities . 
Instead of paying for parking by putting money in the existing machines , which deliver little paper receipts , drivers would be able to buy electronic cards in local tobacco shops . 
Once activated , the card would sit in the car 's window , showing traffic wardens how much time the motorist could remain . 
When the motorist returned to his car he could turn the card off and , if it showed time remaining , save it for later . 
It wanted to buy RJR Nabisco Inc. 's French cracker subsidiary , Belin , in hopes of selling its products in tobacco stores , but lost the bidding to food group BSN SA . 
It currently is considering bidding for Swedish Match Co . 
Brown-tobacco cigarettes such as Gauloises now make up just 40 % of the French tobacco market , half the level of about two decades ago . 
While Seita retains a manufacturing monopoly in France , it is being hurt by rising imports and from waning cigarette demand . 
The aim , says Mr. de Galle , is to win market share from imported cigarettes , and to persuade smokers who are switching to blonde cigarettes to keep buying French . 
Under a 1981 Missouri law , persons accused of some crimes , including trespassing , may offer a defense that their actions were justified `` as an emergency measure to avoid an imminent public or private injury . '' 
Relying on the preamble 's statement that a fetus is an unborn child , the two St. Louis County Circuit Court judges in August accepted the justification that the abortion clinic protesters were trying to save lives . 
There 's no risk to the protesters , and you ca n't keep an abortion clinic open if there are 3,000 people standing outside every day . '' 
The only reason that Somalia remains in obscurity is numbers : a sparsely populated wasteland of 8.5 million people spread out over an expanse nearly the size of Texas . 
The Barre dictatorship simply is limited in the amount of people it can torture and kill . 
: Each man was stabbed to death with a large knife . 
Not since the late 1970s has the horn been so up for grabs as it has suddenly become in just the past few weeks . 
Mutinies wrack his armed forces -LRB- really just an armed gang -RRB- , which control less than half the country . 
Inflation is at record levels . 
Desperate , he has called in the Libyans to help fight the rebels of the Somali National Movement in the north , which is only one of several groups picking away at the regime in the capital of Mogadishu . 
Seventy years old and a self-declared `` scientific socialist , '' President Barre has a power base , composed only of his minority Mareham clan , that according to observers is `` narrowing . '' 
In the past two years , the desert behind them has become a land of mass executions and utter anarchy , where , due to Mr. Barre 's brutality and ineptitude , nobody is any longer in control . 
: Half his army is tied down defending the northern city of Asmara from the Eritreans . 
While the Tigreans are communists , like the Eritreans they are among the most anti-Soviet guerrillas in the world , having suffered more than a decade of aerial bombardment by the Soviet-supplied Mengistu air force . 
What 's more , the U.S. has suspended $ 2.5 million in military aid and $ 1 million in economic aid . 
Because the U.S. is still perceived to be tied to Mr. Barre , when he goes the runway could go too . 
Considering how tenuous the security of that runway is anyway , the better option -- both morally and strategically -- would be for the Bush administration to blast the regime publicly , in terms clear enough for all influential Somalis to understand . 
It is a certainty that Mr. Barre 's days are numbered . 
Remember that it took Mr. Mengistu many months , in what became known as the `` creeping coup , '' to topple Emperor Haile Selassie in 1974 and 1975 . 
There is simply no way to engineer a succession covertly , as is sometimes possible elsewhere on the continent . 
: The Soviets are universally loathed throughout Ethiopia for what they did to the country this past decade -- famine and all . 
He puts OPEC 's current capacity at 28 million to 29 million barrels a day . 
Ali Khalifa Al-Sabah , Kuwait 's oil minister , recently estimated OPEC capacity at 25 million barrels a day . 
Even modest amounts of additional output by those with the huge extra capacity and reserves , such as Saudi Arabia and Iraq , could upset the market . 
`` If you are already producing at 95 % or 100 % of your capacity , what 's the good to be told you can produce at 105 % of capacity ? '' asked Mr. Al-Chalabi . 
The main effect of the ceiling boost was to `` legitimize '' some of the overproduction already coming from the quota cheaters . 
Libya accepted Iran 's proposal only so long as it was promised production parity with Kuwait . 
The ceiling would be lifted to 21.5 million barrels to provide Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates much higher official quotas while reducing percentage shares of some others . 
Libya 's previous conditions are no longer considered a problem , although the United Arab Emirates is still an issue . 
Insisting on a 24.5 % share of any ceiling , Saudi officials have long pressed for the pro rata distribution of increases to all members . 
Mr. Nazer , the Saudi oil minister , reiterated here that the kingdom would insist on maintaining its percentage share of OPEC production under any quota revisions . 
`` Under any circumstances , Saudi Arabia should get more '' rather than less , Mr. Nazer said . 
The air force is to take at least 250 more . 
Rather than renovate the Crusaders , which Dassault is proposing to do for around 1.8 billion French francs -LRB- $ 286.6 million -RRB- , Adm. Goupil said the navy wants to buy used F-18s from the U.S. Navy . 
Adm. Goupil said that when the F-18s wear out , the navy is prepared to take Rafales to replace them . 
So far , Mr. Dassault has resisted pressure to change . 
Adm. Goupil , a former Crusader squadron leader , said that the last other country to use Crusaders , the Philippines , retired its last ones two years ago . 
A French Crusader crash a few months ago heightened pressure for new planes here . 
Even modernized , he said , the Crusaders represent an obsolete and dangerous protection for the aircraft carriers France has sent to meet such crises as the wars in Lebanon and the Persian Gulf . 
In nominal terms it rose 0.6 % from a year earlier before adjustment . 
Fuel and personnel costs are rising , and tourism in and through Hong Kong remains clouded by China 's turmoil since the June 4 killings in Beijing . 
One step is to beef up its fleet . 
In addition to aircraft from Boeing Co. , Cathay announced earlier this year an order for as many as 20 Airbus A330-300s . 
The expansion , which could cost as much as US$ 5.7 billion over the next eight years , will expand the fleet to about 43 planes by 1991 , up from 30 at the end of last year , according to Sun Hung Kai Securities Ltd . 
Fierce bidding for young employees in Hong Kong is pushing up Cathay 's labor costs by 20 % a year for low-level staff , while experienced , skilled employees are leaving the colony as part of the brain drain . 
Some jobs already have been moved to Australia , and there are plans to place others in Canada . 
David Bell , a spokesman for the airline , says the move is partly aimed at retaining existing staff who are leaving to secure foreign passports ahead of 1997 . 
Mr. Eddington regards promoting Hong Kong as an important part of attracting visitors from Japan , South Korea and Taiwan , where the number of people looking to travel abroad has surged . 
Cathay officials decline to comment on the speculation . 
I 'm not sure cross-ownership would necessarily make things smoother . '' 
We 'll coordinate on this end to places like Bangkok , Singapore and Manila . '' 
Cathay has long stated its desire to double its weekly flights into China to 14 , and it is applying to restart long-canceled flights into Vietnam . 
A special section dealing with aviation rights states that landing rights for Hong Kong 's airlines , which include the smaller Hong Kong Dragon Airlines , will continue to be negotiated by Hong Kong 's government . 
`` Cathay would love to keep going , but the general sense is they 're going to have to do something . '' 
`` We 're confident that it protects our route structure , '' he says , `` and our ability to grow and prosper . 
Falcon , a limited partnership , said it wanted the increase in order to continue its $ 2.15-per-unit annual payment , and for expansion and acquisitions . 
Saturday night she dined in an emergency shelter on salmon steaks prepared by chefs from one of the city 's four-star restaurants . 
A couple in fashionable spandex warm-up suits jogs by , headphones jauntily in place , weaving their way along a street of fractured and fallen houses . 
At a nearby corner , they swerve perilously close to a listing apartment house , oblivious to any danger . 
A policeman shakes his head in amazement as he steers them away . 
She is told she ca n't enter unless she is accompanied by an inspector . 
She bursts into tears and walks away . 
Nearby , five temporary residents of the school shelter sit on stools , having their necks and backs kneaded by volunteer masseuses . 
In addition to free massages , there was free counseling , phone calls and a free shuttle bus to a health club , which offered up its showers , saunas and hot tubs . 
The cafeteria offered donated croissants and brie for breakfast , and for dinner , pasta salad and chocolate mousse torts along with the salmon . 
People have been very respectful of each other . 
I do n't know if this would have happened somewhere else . '' 
Green allowed residents to re-enter ; yellow allowed limited access ; red allowed residents one last entry to gather everything they could within 15 minutes . 
Some frantically dumped belongings into pillowcases , others threw goods out windows . 
`` The women wanted photo albums , a certain brooch , kind of sentimental things . '' 
He showed an unbroken , still-ticking pocket watch that he retrieved for one woman . 
A policewoman had to be called in to make her leave ; the policewoman helped carry out one last load . 
; the policewoman helped carry out one last load . 
One man trying to remove his car was told by officials to get out of his garage . When he sneaked back later to try again , a different policeman offered to help him get the car out . 
When he sneaked back later to try again , a different policeman offered to help him get the car out . 
On lampposts along Fillmore Street , a major Marina artery , posters were offering a $ 100 reward for a cat lost during the quake . 
The SPCA says it has received more than 100 requests for foster homes on behalf of dogs and cats , though some people have sought temporary homes for birds and fish . 
`` She can stay there with no heat , but for a parakeet , that can be deadly , '' says Daralee Konowitch , animalcare services manager for the SPCA . 
A warm foster home has been found . 
Only it is safer , and busier . 
A shopping center of similar size in an affluent Los Angeles suburb would , per year , be expected to have eight burglaries , 70 thefts of or from autos , and four robberies . 
; the figure for a comparable suburban shopping center would be $ 200 . 
Three other Haagen shopping centers in the Watts area are doing almost as well . 
Major regional and national chain stores are replaced by mom-and-pop operations offering poorer-quality merchandise at higher prices . 
This defensible commercial zone becomes , for the residents , a secure oasis in a barren urban landscape , evidence that community decay is not inevitable and that the gangs are not invincible . 
This starts in the construction phase through the use of minority contractors and local workers . 
It continues through the life of the center ; the Vermont-Slauson Center has created 500 permanent private-sector jobs at a one-time cost in public funds of only $ 2,500 per job . 
; the Vermont-Slauson Center has created 500 permanent private-sector jobs at a one-time cost in public funds of only $ 2,500 per job . 
As many of these jobs are filled by local residents , who move from the welfare rolls to the tax rolls , the $ 2,500-per-job public investment should repay itself in a few years . 
; the non-profit Vermont-Slauson Economic Development Corp. receives 60 % of the profits from the Vermont-Slauson Center and uses the money to provide moderate and low-cost housing in the community -- now running into the hundreds of units -- as well as commercial and industrial development projects . 
What had been a deteriorated area with nothing but wig shops and shoe shops is now experiencing a major upgrading in the housing and commercial stock , thanks to a continuously replenished source of revitalization capital that Vermont-Slauson yields . '' 
In the Grand Boulevard Plaza developed by Matanky Realty Group in Chicago 's Third Ward , opposite the Robert Taylor Homes , 29 % of the stores to date have been leased to blacks and 14 % to members of other minority groups . 
Children from the community will have worthier role models than the drug kingpins . 
The entire site is enclosed by a 6-to-8-foot-high ornamental iron fence with a small number of remote-controlled gates . 
Shrubs and flowers give it a pleasing and non-fortress-like appearance . 
; lighting levels are three to five times the industry standard . 
The security command post , camouflaged as second-story retail space , has its own `` crow 's nest '' above the roofs of the other buildings , with a panoramic view of the entire center . 
Local law enforcement is present in a sub-station occupying space donated by the center . 
Security is 60 % to 70 % of the common area charges of these centers , vs. an industry average of about 15 % . 
These programs could be expanded to focus on funds for project planning , identifying sources of funds , and for acquiring a site and preparing it . 
Combatting crime and the fear of it in inner-city commercial areas should give Enterprise Zones more success than most have enjoyed to date . 
New approaches to mall design and operation make it possible to tap these markets . 
The answer will be obvious . 
For each $ 1,000 of notes , the maker of specialty metals , industrial fasteners and consumer products will pay $ 1,026.46 plus $ 8.68 of interest accrued from Dec. 1 . 
Best of all , they add , these growth issues , unlike their big blue-chip cousins on the New York Stock Exchange , are languishing at depressed prices . 
Against such a backdrop , companies with proven track records of earnings gains of 20 % or so annually have extra appeal . 
`` If the market refocuses on earnings , we should get better valuations of growth stocks , '' says L. Keith Mullins , a growth-stock analyst at Morgan Stanley . 
Eventually , he believes , investors will be willing to pay higher prices for companies with proven track records of earnings growth . 
In anticipation of that shift , he and other analysts are encouraging their clients to buy such issues now . 
The Nasdaq Composite has gained 23 % this year , but that 's largely due to the 100 largest nonfinancial stocks , which have soared 30 % . 
`` People are naturally suspicious of them , '' says Mr. Mullins of Morgan Stanley . 
Mark Schoeppner , portfolio manager at Pittsburgh-based Quaker Capital Management , says that in reaction to nervousness about debt-laden buy-out transactions , analysts and investors now appear to be `` valuing stock based on future earnings as opposed to the amount of debt the company can support . '' 
On Friday , Hambrecht & Quist added St. Jude Medical to the list of 20 stocks it strongly recommends . 
Kurt Kruger , who follows the stock for Hambrecht & Quist , anticipates that the company 's net income will grow 51 % to $ 2.15 a share this year . 
St. Jude finished up 1\/4 to 44 1\/2 on Friday . 
Friday 's volume totaled 158.2 million shares ; the daily average for the week was a bustling 176.7 million . 
; the daily average for the week was a bustling 176.7 million . 
The company reported a big third-quarter loss on Thursday . 
In the 1988 quarter , the bank earned $ 1.1 million . 
BanPonce jumped 4 1\/2 to 47 3\/4 after agreeing to be acquired by Banco Popular de Puerto Rico for $ 56.25 a share . 
The company 's shares began trading at 12 1\/2 , up from its initial offering price of 12 , and closed at 13 . 
The company said results for its second quarter ended Oct. 28 could drop as much as 20 % below the 30 cents a share reported in the year-earlier quarter . 
A Food and Drug Administration advisory panel has asked that Medstone perform more studies on its device to treat gallstones . 
LIN added 5\/8 to 110 5\/8 and McCaw lost 1\/4 to 41 . 
McCaw said it has secured commitments from three banks to help finance its $ 125-a-share bid for 22 million of Lin 's shares . 
McCaw has called for a `` fair auction '' of LIN , which earlier entered a stock-swap merger pact with BellSouth . 
The issue is noncallable for five years and has a sinking fund starting in 2000 to retire 50 % of the issue before maturity . 
Each $ 5,000 bond carries one warrant , exercisable from Nov. 28 , 1989 , through Oct. 28 , 1993 , to buy company shares at an expected premium of 2 1\/2 % to the closing share price when terms are fixed Oct. 27 . 
First Interstate said the unit , bludgeoned by Arizona 's worsening real-estate woes , will have a $ 174 million loss for the quarter . 
First Interstate took a huge $ 350 million provision for loan losses at the Arizona bank . 
It charged off an estimated $ 200 million of Arizona loans , leaving the unit with a reserve for future losses of $ 255 million , about 61 % of its $ 416 million of troubled loans and repossessed real estate . 
Earlier last week , Valley National Corp. , the state 's largest locally owned banking company , reported a $ 72.2 million loss and suspended its dividend . 
Security Pacific Corp. said third-quarter credit losses surged a third to $ 109 million , mainly because of sour Arizona real-estate loans . 
New York-based Chase Manhattan Corp. took an $ 85 million Arizona-related charge . 
Examiners from the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency had been combing through First Interstate 's real-estate portfolio since last month ; they first recommended that First Interstate take a provision that was less than the eventual $ 350 million third-quarter hit . 
When First Interstate balked , arguing that the figure was too high , regulators responded by raising their recommendation to $ 350 million . 
He said the provision `` was n't forced upon us , but the regulators made it very clear what they thought was an appropriate number . '' 
At least six of Arizona 's 12 savings and loan institutions have either been taken over by the government 's conservatorship program or are essentially insolvent ; they are sitting on enormous unrecognized losses . 
; they are sitting on enormous unrecognized losses . 
It had a $ 258.9 million loss in the second quarter . 
Together , the six government-controlled or essentially insolvent Arizona thrifts have tangible capital of a negative $ 1.5 billion , foreclosed property of $ 1.8 billion and pastdue loans of $ 1.63 billion . 
The thrifts had a combined loss of $ 487.8 million in the second quarter . 
Other lenders have been recovering only 50 cents to 60 cents on the dollar on foreclosed Arizona property , if they can sell it at all . 
In the late 1970s and early 1980s , lenders and developers poured money into office buildings , condominiums and massive tracts of raw desert land , confident that Arizona 's population would grow at annual rates of 4 % to 6 % for years to come . 
Now , annual population growth is running at about 2 % a year , some desert tracts bought three years ago for $ 90,000 an acre are being sold at $ 25,000 an acre and Phoenix has a seven-year supply of unoccupied office space . 
Ralph Shattuck , publisher of Foreclosure Update newsletter , said foreclosures have climbed to about 1,482 a month just in Maricopa County , where Phoenix is located . 
That 's up from about 687 a month in 1985 , and it 's accelerating : So far this month , foreclosures are averaging about 85 a day . 
: So far this month , foreclosures are averaging about 85 a day . 
`` It 's frightening , '' Mr. Shattuck said . 
`` We 're going to see another big wave of failures and defaults between now and year-end ... . 
The only thing a lot of these lenders can get out of their mouth now is : ` Pay me in 60 days . ' '' 
For the six months ended June 30 , it reported net income of $ 234.3 million , or $ 4.83 a share , including $ 46 million from tax credits and accounting changes . 
Mr. Marrie said the bank expects Arizona real-estate prices , which plummeted 40 % over the last year , to fall another 20 % before stabilizing . 
Some in Arizona think that may be optimistic . 
Mr. Marrie said the problems in Arizona have only `` increased our resolve to continue to make our restructuring even more effective . '' 
The ratings service said the downgrades reflect the continued slide in the company 's financial condition . 
Commercial paper holders have reinvested their funds , he said , and consumer deposits have been up in the last few days . 
The IL-4 receptor on the surface of such cells receives the hormone 's message to rally the body 's defense . 
Immunex will have the option to buy back Receptech shares after five years . 
It said yesterday that net income for its third quarter soared 72 % to $ 11.8 million , or 28 cents a share , from $ 6.8 million , or 19 cents a share , in the year-ago period . 
Its revenue totaled $ 184.4 million , an increase of 172 % from $ 67.8 million a year ago . 
Revenue nearly tripled to $ 479 million , from $ 160 million . 
That 's a faster growth rate than reported by Compaq , which did n't post similar results until its fourth year , in 1986 . 
Since its inception , Conner has both benefited from and helped make possible the rapid spread of portable computers by selling storage devices that consume five to 10 times less electricity than drives used in desktop machines . 
The company supplies drives to Compaq and Zenith Data Systems , the top two U.S. manufacturers of laptops , and to Toshiba Corp. , NEC Corp. and Sharp Corp. , the leading Japanese laptop makers . 
Next month , Seagate Technology , which is the dominant supplier of hard-disk drives for personal computers , plans to introduce its first family of low-power drives for battery-operated computers . 
`` They are going to catch up , '' said David Claridge , an analyst with Hambrecht & Quist . 
Both Toshiba and NEC already produce hard-disk drives , and Sony also is studying the field , Mr. Claridge said . 
Yesterday , the company introduced four products , three of which are aimed at a hot new class of computers called notebooks . 
`` We continue to develop products faster than anyone else can . '' 
These new products could account for as much as 35 % of the company 's business in 1990 , Mr. Conner estimated . 
`` We 're not afraid of obsoleting some of our old stuff to stay ahead of the competition , '' he said . 
Sales to Compaq represented 26 % of Conner 's business in its third quarter , compared with 42 % in the year-ago period . 
`` We will only deal with clients on the phone , '' he says . 
`` We have no in-office business . '' 
Local bar associations in some states have numbers that provide free tape-recorded messages explaining certain areas of the law . 
In an effort to determine whether a caller has reason to sue , Cane lawyers review documents and perform research , if necessary , with the help of three law clerks and several support staffers . 
There is no charge for research -- only for time on the phone . 
The jury found them guilty of conspiracy in obtaining the payments , some of which were disguised as fees for consulting services from Mrs. Garcia . 
Mr. Little said more than 20 people have been convicted in the Wedtech cases , including former U.S. Rep. Mario Biaggi -LRB- D. , N.Y . -RRB- . 
Mr. Garcia , who represents New York 's 18th congressional district , which includes the Bronx , said he has n't decided whether he will resign . 
They will be joined by Larry Gainen , who resigned from the firm of LePatner , Gainen & Block . 
The actual disciplinary hearings will be public . 
Non-lawyers will be added to the inquiry panels that look into allegations of misconduct . 
`` You do n't have a right to practice . 
You only have a privilege to practice . '' 
Drexel does n't have a Delaware office , but the New York firm has been negotiating settlements that would allow it to operate freely nationwide despite its record as an admitted felon . 
Drexel pleaded guilty in September to six felony counts of securities and mail fraud ; it also made a $ 650 million civil settlement with the Securities and Exchange Commission . 
Several executives said another potential contender is WPP Group 's Ogilvy & Mather agency , which works on some other Philip Morris products . 
A spokeswoman for Ogilvy & Mather said the agency does n't comment on `` idle speculation . '' 
Benson & Hedges has been one of its most high-visibility campaigns , as well as one of its largest clients . 
The account billed almost $ 60 million last year , according to Leading National Advertisers . 
According to John Maxwell , an analyst at Wheat First Securities , Richmond , Va. , Benson & Hedges has slipped from 4.7 % of the cigarette market in 1985 to just 4.1 % after the second quarter of this year . 
The brand is No. 7 overall in the cigarette business , Mr. Maxwell said . 
That ad generated so much publicity that a trade magazine launched a contest for its readers to guess who the guy was and what he was doing . 
Philip Morris , trying to revive the Benson & Hedges franchise , put the account up for review in 1986 . 
Its victories include more than $ 30 million in Sheraton Corp. business and an assignment from Dun & Bradstreet worth $ 5 million to $ 10 million . 
Part of the bridge collapsed in the quake , which registered 6.9 on the Richter scale . 
BART has increased service to 24 hours a day in preparation for the onslaught . 
For the first time in 32 years , ferry service has been restored between the East Bay and San Francisco . 
The Red and White Fleet , which operates regular commuter ferry service to and from Marin County , and tourist tours of the bay , is offering East Bay commuters a chance to ride the waves for the price of $ 10 round-trip . 
`` I 'll stay with BART , '' said one secretary , swallowing her fears about using the transbay tube . 
`` We 're anticipating quite a traffic crunch , '' said one official . 
About 130,000 vehicles cross during a 24-hour period . 
`` Other cities are calling -LCB- groups booked here for tours and conferences -RCB- and -- not to be crass -- stealing our booking list , '' said Scott Shafer , a spokesman for Mayor Art Agnos . 
The other five Bay area counties have increased their total damage estimates to $ 2.8 billion . 
All estimates exclude highway repair , which could exceed $ 1 billion . 
Until it was closed Tuesday , it had provided the quickest series of exits for commuters from the Bay Bridge heading into the Financial District . 
While many of these buildings sustained heavy damage , little of that involved major structural damage . 
City building codes require construction that can resist temblors . 
`` The extent of the claims wo n't be known for some time , '' Mr. Leach said . 
The state has a $ 1 billion reserve , and is expected to add $ 1 billion to that fund in the next year . 
The results included a A$ 453.4 million write-off of future income-tax benefits and a provision for a loss of A$ 149.5 million on the sale of a stake of about 20 % in Lonrho PLC . 
The company said the general financial performance of its U.S. brewing operations , G. Heileman Brewing Co. , was `` disappointing , and this has been reflected in the results . '' 
Now Bond Corp. has agreed to sell at least half its Australian brewing assets . 
It has sold billions of dollars of other assets and has more on the block . 
We 've taken it on the chin . 
It said it will look at opportunities in brewing , property and energy resources to the extent consistent with the dominant objective of manageable debt-to-assets ratios . 
The reason was not high interest rates or labor costs . 
The business closed when the owner was murdered by robbers . 
The first time he was shot in the hand as he chased the robbers outside . The second time he identified two robbers , who were arrested and charged . 
The second time he identified two robbers , who were arrested and charged . 
Two weeks later -- perhaps in retaliation -- Mr. Ortiz was shot three times in the back , during what police classified as a third robbery attempt . 
For providing what his customers described as very personal and helpful service . 
For creating a focus for neighborhood life . 
The U.S. Bureau of Justice Statistics reports that almost 2 % of all retail-sales workers suffer injuries from crime each year , almost twice the national average and about four times the rate for teachers , truck drivers , medical workers and door-to-door salespeople . 
Only a few other occupations have higher reported rates of criminal injury , such as police , bartenders and taxi drivers . 
Recent data from New York City provide more of the picture . 
While by no means the highest crime community in the country , New York is a prime example of a city where crime strangles small-business development . 
It gave 1,124 businesses a questionnaire and analyzed 353 responses . 
The survey found that over a three-year period 22 % of the firms said employees or owners had been robbed on their way to or from work or while on the job . 
Seventeen percent reported their customers being robbed . 
Crime was the reason that 26 % reported difficulty recruiting personnel and that 19 % said they were considering moving . 
In Brooklyn and the Bronx , one out of four commercial firms is burglarized each year . 
Industrial neighborhoods fare even worse , with burglary rates twice the citywide average . 
He found that monetary crime losses , as a proportion of gross receipts , were 37 times higher for small businesses than for large ones . 
; their annual crime losses averaged about $ 15,000 , with an additional $ 8,385 annual cost in security -- enough money to hire at least one more worker . 
After repeated gun robberies , some entrepreneurs may give up a business out of fear for their lives . 
One Washington couple recently sold their liquor store after 34 years in business that included four robbery deaths and 16 robberies or burglaries on the premises . 
Underclass neighborhoods offer relatively few employment opportunities , contributing to the poverty of local residents . Small neighborhood businesses could provide more jobs , if crime were not so harmful to creating and maintaining those businesses . 
Small neighborhood businesses could provide more jobs , if crime were not so harmful to creating and maintaining those businesses . 
This may help explain why small businesses create 65 % of all jobs nationally , but only 22 % of jobs in a crime-ridden city like New York . 
The New York study found that the cost of security measures in firms with fewer than five employees was almost $ 1,000 per worker , compared with one-third that amount for firms with more than 10 employees . 
Private security guards and moonlighting police can invoke the law of trespass to regulate access to these quasi-public places . 
In the neighborhoods with the highest crime rates , small business generally relies on the public police force for protection . 
This creates several problems . 
One is that there are not enough police to satisfy small businesses . 
The number one proposal for reducing crime in the New York survey was to put more police on foot or scooter patrol , suggested by more than two-thirds of the respondents . 
Only 22 % supported private security patrols funded by the merchants themselves . 
Only half the New York small businesses surveyed , for their part , are satisfied with the police response they receive . 
For cities losing business to suburban shopping centers , it may be a wise business investment to help keep those jobs and sales taxes within city limits . 
Increased patrolling of business zones makes sense because urban crime is heavily concentrated in such `` hot spots '' of pedestrian density . 
With National Institute of Justice support , the Minneapolis police and the Crime Control Institute are currently testing the effects of such a strategy , comparing its deterrence value with traditional random patrols . 
While no guarantee , an increased police presence might even deter further attacks . 
They will have to revisit this issue , and they 'll have to revisit it before long . 
That reflects the huge drop a week ago Friday , last Monday 's rebound and the dips and blips that followed . 
Funds that invest internationally were the top-performing stock and fixed-income funds . 
`` That means stocks , bonds , money market instruments and real estate . '' 
`` It 's like kicking the tires of a car ... . 
What you want to know is when the road 's rough , when there 's snow and ice , how 's this car going to perform ? '' 
Flexible portfolio funds , which allocate investments among stocks , bonds and money-market instruments and other investments , declined at about half the rate of stock funds -- an average drop of 1.27 % , according to Lipper . 
This gives them the added benefits of international diversification -- including a foreign-exchange boost during periods , like the past week , when the dollar declines against other major currencies . 
With all that going for them , global flexible portfolio funds declined only 1.07 % in the week through last Thursday . 
: A diversified portfolio always underperforms an undiversified portfolio during those times when the investment in the undiversified portfolio is truly hot . 
Fixed-income funds have returned 8.2 % , while gold funds , which tend to be volatile , have risen just 4.55 % , on average . 
`` You do n't make any real money . '' 
Its return so far this year has been a credible 21.71 % . 
By the time the market plummeted 10 days ago , Monetta was 55 % in cash , said Robert Bacarella , president and portfolio manager . 
Last Monday , he started `` buying the high-quality growth companies that people were throwing away at discount prices . '' 
`` In a downward market , bonds act better , '' he said . 
We believe interest rates will continue to trend lower , and the economy will slow around the world . '' 
From its high point on Thursday , Oct. 12 , to where it traded late in New York a week later , the dollar fell 3.6 % against the West German mark , 3.4 % against the British pound and 2.1 % against the Japanese yen . 
Because the funds ' investments are denominated in foreign currencies , their value expressed in dollars goes up when those currencies rise against the dollar . 
All three funds posted negative returns for the year to date . 
Noting that equity funds are up nearly 60 % from their post-crash low on Dec. 3 , 1987 , he said that what happened last week `` may not be enough of an adjustment . 
There 's either more to come or an extremely long period of dullness . '' 
Several big mutual fund groups said last week that cash flows into stock funds were heavier than usual after heavy outflows on the 13th . 
Vanguard Group said it had a more than $ 50 million net inflow into its stock funds last week . 
`` People showed some staying power and , in fact , interest in buying equities . '' 
He is ogling the curtains rippling above the ventilation ducts . 
`` Look how much air is moving around ! '' he says . 
`` The ventilation here is great ! '' 
After years of relative obscurity , he is starting to attract notice for the ecological as well as the aesthetic quality of his architecture . 
He has designed furniture and homes as well as commercial and office space . 
He is now designing a Broadway stage set for a show by the band Kid Creole and the Coconuts . 
Now the question is : Is Poland ready for it ? 
Mr. McDonough is about to tackle his biggest clean-air challenge yet , the proposed Warsaw Trade Center in Poland , the first such center in Eastern Europe . 
Bloomingdale 's plans to sell a foot-tall chocolate model of the center during the holidays . 
A cake topped with a replica of the center will be auctioned at an AIDS benefit at Sotheby 's in December . 
A 20-story mesh spire will stand atop 50 stories of commercial space . 
Solar-powered batteries will make the spire glow . 
The windows will open . 
The carpets wo n't be glued down , and walls will be coated with nontoxic finishes . 
The Poles would plant a 10-square-mile forest somewhere in the country at a cost of $ 150,000 , with the center 's developer footing the bill . 
All architects want to be aware of the ecological consequences of their work , says John Burgee , whose New York firm is designing the redevelopment of Times Square , `` but we ca n't all carry it to that extreme . '' 
Karen Nichols , senior associate at Michael Graves 's architecture firm in Princeton , N.J. , says : `` We 're really at the mercy of what the construction industry can and will do readily . '' 
He earned a master 's degree in architecture from Yale . 
He and his father still spend time each summer fly-fishing for salmon in Iceland . 
Living in Hong Kong , he says , made him sensitive to the limits on food , power and water supplies . 
At his first school in the U.S. he was thought a little strange for shutting off open water taps and admonishing his schoolmates to take only brief showers . 
At Yale , he designed one of the first solarheated houses to be built in Ireland . 
To reduce it at the fund 's building , workers rubbed beeswax instead of polyurethane on the floors in the executive director 's office . 
Jute , rather than a synthetic material , lies under the tacked-down carpets , and the desks are of wood and granite instead of plastic . 
`` Athens with Spartan means , '' Mr. McDonough says . 
The fund 's lawyers work in an Athenian grove of potted trees . 
Economists and administrators sit along a `` boulevard '' with street lamps and ficus trees . 
In offices , triphosphorous bulbs simulate daylight . 
Offices with outside windows have inside windows , too , to let in more real daylight . 
Maybe they were hidden by all the people . '' 
The restaurant was conceived as a sparkling , crystalline `` geode . '' 
It makes extensive use of stainless steel , silver and aluminum that sets off black granite table tops and a gray terrazzo with zinc-strip floors . 
If any nation can use environmentally benign architecture , it is Poland . 
Jessica Mathews , vice president of World Resources Institute in Washington , D.C. , says that perhaps a quarter of Poland 's soil is too contaminated for safe farming because of air pollution . 
Mr. Muniak 's company , Balag Ltd. , has agreed to set aside the money to plant and maintain it , but discussions are still going on over where to place it and how to ensure that it will be maintained . 
They 're more worried about bread on the table . 
In the year-ago quarter , net totaled $ 14.7 million , or 38 cents a share , including $ 4 million , or 10 cents a share , reflecting a tax-loss carry-forward . 
Pittston continues to hire replacement workers , the company said . 
While `` the tone '' of domestic and international air-freight markets remains sound , seasonal factors are likely to hinder Burlington Air from matching third-quarter results in the fourth quarter , Pittston said . 
Democrats hoped that Mr. Dinkins could become a highly visible national leader . 
Republicans figured that in Mr. Giuliani , the nation 's best-known prosecutor , they had a chance for a huge upset in the heart of Democratic territory and that they would pick up a new political star . 
`` The alternative -- Giuliani -- is ghastly . '' 
`` There 's nothing on the other side . '' 
He adds : `` It just has n't gotten down to the engine room yet . '' 
To help out this week , the White House is dispatching chief of staff John Sununu and three Cabinet members -- HUD 's Jack Kemp , Transportation 's Samuel Skinner and Treasury 's Nicholas Brady , according to Peter Powers , the Giuliani campaign manager . 
This year , the city faces a budget deficit that could become even bigger next year . 
His general-election campaign is almost Reagan-like , all muted pictures and comforting words . 
His theme is unity , decency , humanity , bringing New York together again . 
`` He 's got to get Dinkins 's negatives up , '' says Lee Miringoff , director of the Marist College Institute of Public Opinion . 
Why , even 20 % of the Republican vote is going to Dinkins . '' 
Mr. Mason left the campaign after telling reporters Mr. Dinkins is `` a fancy'shvartzer ' with a moustache . '' 
He can match Jackie Mason with his own Robert `` Sonny '' Carson , an angry street organizer who was convicted of kidnapping in 1974 . 
Paper work on how it was spent is incomplete . 
Asked about that the other day , he replied , `` Anti-Semitic ? 
It began in 1973 , when he was being considered for deputy mayor , and a routine check unearthed the extraordinary fact that he had n't paid his income tax for the previous four years . 
He had valued the shares at more than $ 1 million two years earlier . 
He says his son has n't paid for the shares . 
`` It follows the same pattern as his tax returns . 
He waits to talk about it until after he gets caught . '' 
`` It 's ludicrous for him to suggest it 's the difference between the'breakup ' value of the shares and their market value . '' 
`` It 's serious stuff . 
He 's had a history of deception and this is the latest chapter . '' 
`` The result may turn out to be a lot closer than people think . 
The Vatican , which denies any wrongdoing , paid $ 250 million to the Milan bank 's creditors as a `` goodwill gesture '' in 1985 . 
Italian papers speculated the briefcase contained papers either exonerating the Vatican bank from blame in the scandal , or showing that the bank , known as the Istituto per le Opere di Religione , channeled funds to East bloc groups such as Solidarity in Poland . 
Ferranti has said that it would be forced to write off # 185 million against the phantom contracts , reducing its net asset value by more than half . 
Derek Alun-Jones , Ferranti 's chairman , has said he hoped to pursue legal action against those responsible . 
Comsat Video will pay $ 17 million for a 62.5 % interest , with Messrs. Lee and Bynoe putting up $ 8 million for a 37.5 % stake in the team . 
Under terms of the sale , Nuggets owner Sidney Shlenker could receive up to $ 11 million in additional payments from the franchise 's future earnings . 
Royal 's suit contends that the Ammann acquisition was `` designed to entrench management and thwart Royal 's offer . '' 
A year earlier , the company had a deficit of $ 1.5 million , or six cents a share . 
With the exception of van conversions , the industry has seen a decline from 1988 's robust sales . 
The company said it also suffered in the quarter from incentive programs , losses from discontinuing a motor home line and costs of developing a new commercial vehicle , among other things . 
Based on his control of about 45 % of Winnebago 's 24.7 million shares , his annual dividend income would be cut to about $ 2.2 million from $ 4.4 million . 
Sales rose 2 % to $ 437.5 million from $ 430.3 million . 
Mr. Platt is advising clients that `` the near-term direction of bond prices is likely to remain upward . '' 
Investors rushed to buy bonds during the summer as prices soared on speculation that interest rates would continue to fall . 
Long-term bonds have performed erratically this year . 
At the same time , last week 's consumer price index showed that inflation is moderating . 
`` I think we will see a federal funds rate of close to 8 1\/2 % in the next two weeks and 8 % by year end . '' 
Although the rate briefly drifted even lower following the stock market sell-off that occurred Oct. 13 , it ended Friday at about 8 11\/16 % . 
`` Given our forecast for lower rates , purchases made now should prove quite rewarding before year end , '' he said . 
He says these bonds should appreciate in value as some investors , reacting to the recent turmoil in the stock and high-yield junk bond markets , seek safer securities . 
`` If the -LCB- Tennessee Valley Authority -RCB- sale is any guide , there appears to be good demand for top-quality , long-term paper from both domestic and overseas accounts , '' he said . 
Strong investor demand prompted the utility to boost the size of the issue from $ 3 billion . 
Today , the Treasury Department will sell $ 15.6 billion of three-month and six-month bills at the regular weekly auction . 
Tomorrow , the Treasury will sell $ 10 billion of two-year notes . 
All of this comes ahead of the government 's big quarterly refunding of the federal debt , which takes place sometime in November . 
`` I 'm not going to jump on them the first day they come out . '' 
On Friday , the yield was quoted at about 1\/4 percentage point higher than the benchmark bond , an indication of weak demand . 
`` If one thinks that rates are going down , you do n't care how much supply is coming . '' 
Those hopes were dashed when the stock market put in a relatively quiet performance . 
The benchmark 30-year bond , which traded as high as 102 1\/4 during the day , ended at 101 17\/32 . 
The yield on the benchmark bond rose slightly to 7.98 % from 7.96 % . 
Traders expect the issue to be priced to yield 12 % . 
`` If they had this much trouble with Chicago & North Western , they are going to have an awful time with the rest . '' 
After hours of negotiating that stretched late into Thursday night , underwriters priced the 12-year issue of resettable senior subordinated debentures at par to yield 14.75 % , higher than the 14.5 % that had been expected . 
The coupon on the issue will be reset in one year at a rate that will give the issue a market value of 101 . 
`` We put a price on the deal that the market required to get it done . '' 
An Henri Matisse , auctioned last Wednesday , fetched $ 12.4 million , a world record for the artist . 
Without admitting any guilt , the bureau agreed to several conditions if it again contracts with an outside firm to publish its directories . 
The uproar led to the closing of the Los Angeles Better Business Bureau in late 1987 . 
Morgan Guaranty Trust , Toronto-Dominion Bank and Provident National Bank , an affiliate of PNC Financial Corp. , jointly committed $ 1.2 billion of financing , subject to certain conditions , McCaw said . 
It quoted Liu Changyi , deputy director of the Beijing Public Security Bureau , as saying that there were many more people involved in prostitution now than in 1985 , when there were about 100 cases . 
The Japanese use 40 % of the world 's ivory . 
`` In some places the stonework is so damaged it shows signs of breaking off , '' scientists and technicians said in a report to Public Works Minister Giovanni Prandini . 
Trade and Supply Minister Gerhard Briksa said in a letter published in the youth daily Junge Welt that the rise in alcohol consumption in East Germany had been halted ; but to reduce it further , he said , production and supply of other beverages , including fruit juices , should be stepped up . 
He added that shops will have to continue reducing their stocks of liquor and avoid displaying them too prominently in the window . 
A group of senior Conservative legislators , complaining the House of Commons was like a sauna , demanded that the experiment be stopped unless the intensity of the lights is reduced . 
One Conservative MP , David Wilshire , said : `` I should have a wonderful suntan by Christmas . '' 
The plan , proposed by U.S. Secretary of State Nicholas Brady , calls for banks either to make new loans or to reduce the principle on existing loans or to cut the interest rate on those existing loans . 
`` They ca n't take the hit '' to their earnings , he said . 
The British prime minister was the only woman singled out by respondents , who put Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev in second place ... . 
That would require fourth-quarter net of more than about 22 cents to 24 cents a share , assuming that Mr. Stein 's third-quarter estimate proves accurate . 
In the year-earlier fourth quarter , the company had profit of $ 2.7 million , or 15 cents a share . 
The year-earlier periods do n't reflect results of the company 's Woodstream Corp. unit , acquired last January , but include some Canadian operations that were sold at the end of 1988 . 
Woodstream 's Victor-brand mousetraps and other pest-control products are `` doing very well , '' and its plastic storage-case products `` are poised for growth , '' he said . 
Mr. Stein said he expects profit to be higher in 1990 than in 1989 , reflecting a number of measures taken since the acquisition of Ekco Housewares in late 1987 . 
-LRB- Prior to acquiring the housewares business , the company was known as Centronics Corp. ; Centronics had been a maker of computer printers , but Mr. Stein and other officers decided to sell that business after Japanese competitors grabbed a dominant share of the market . -RRB- 
By moving the design of new products in-house -- instead of contracting out the work -- the company also has been able to come up with designs that can be manufactured more efficiently , he said . 
He indicated that Ekco may be interested in acquiring another company with revenue in the range of $ 75 million to $ 100 million , partly because mass merchandisers increasingly want to rely on larger , and fewer , suppliers . 
Foreign lending has been virtually suspended since then , choking liquidity and hobbling many projects . 
The company 's sales flattened during 1989 's first half . 
In Canton , Givaudan 's representative office received no orders in June . 
He predicts that sales will drop between 30 % and 40 % from last year 's $ 3 million . 
`` On the down side , sales could fall as much as 90 % for some companies ; on the upper side , sales will be flat . '' 
The current trough is expected to be much deeper , because Beijing has cut off domestic funds from factories for the first time to slow inflation . 
In the first eight months of 1989 , imports grew 21 % , to $ 38.32 billion , down slightly from a growth rate of 23 % a year earlier . 
Exports in the first eight months grew only 9 % , to $ 31.48 billion , compared with a growth rate of 25 % a year earlier , according to Chinese customs figures . 
The reserves dropped for the first time in recent years , to $ 14 billion in June from $ 19 billion in April . 
In recent weeks , China 's leaders have recentralized trading in wool and scores of chemical products and commodities . 
The Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations and Trade set up a special bureau last month to monitor the issue of import and export licenses . 
Three years ago , the ratio was reversed . 
`` Both sectors of imports and exports look just as bad , '' says Masahiko Kitamura , general manager of Nissho Iwai 's Canton office . 
He expects the company 's trading business to drop as much as 40 % this year . 
Many foreign trading offices in Hong Kong were swamped with telexes and telephone calls from Chinese trade officials urging them not to sever ties . 
Even the Bank of China , which normally took weeks to process letters of credit , was settling the letters at record speed to dispel rumors about the bank 's financial health . 
The suspension of foreign loans has weakened the buying power of China 's national trading companies , which are among the country 's biggest importers . 
Foreign traders say the company is strapped for cash . 
`` How can it make available funds for purchases ? '' 
Albert Lee , a veteran trader who specializes in machinery sales , estimates that as many as 70 % of projects that had obtained approval to proceed have been canceled in recent months . 
`` There are virtually no new projects , and that means no new business for us , '' he says . 
These have been among the country 's leading imports , particularly last year when there were shortages that led many traders to buy heavily and pay dearly . 
To stem speculation , Beijing imposed ceiling prices that went into effect earlier this year . 
Traders who had bought the goods at prices above the ceiling do n't want to take a loss on resales and are holding onto their stock . 
The resulting stockpiling has depressed the market . 
Mr. Kamm , the China trade expert , estimates that as much as 50 % of Guangdong 's exports is made up of processed imported raw materials . 
Commercial fishermen and fish processors filed suit in federal court in a claim that has ballooned to more than $ 104.8 million . 
The fund is required to pay claims up to an additional $ 86 million . 
Trinidad Corp. is contesting liability . 
It claims the Coast Guard failed to chart the rock and refuses to pay damages . 
That means the fund is n't obligated to pay anything , at least so far . 
The spokesman says the `` glitch '' in the statute is `` the worst kind of Catch-22 . '' 
`` Law school teaches wonderful theory , but it does n't teach the nuts and bolts of practical lawyering , '' says Aaron Weitz , head of a New York County Lawyers ' Association committee that sponsors such a course . 
At the Baltimore firm of Weinberg & Green , new corporate and banking associates are required to enroll in a 20-class course . 
Partners lecture on how to form corporations , draft agreements and defend clients against unwanted tender offers . 
There will be recreation and movie rooms . 
Teens will be able to listen to music with headsets . 
Study halls , complete with reference materials , will be available . 
The bench will be lower so the judge seems less intimidating , and walls will be painted in bright colors and covered with murals . 
`` We need to get the kids away from the criminals into a less traumatic environment , '' says Mr. Edelman . 
Its survey of 96 firms , each with 100 to 1,000 lawyers , shows that managing partners earned an average of $ 395,974 in compensation and cash benefits in the firms ' 1988 fiscal years . 
The panel is expected to add provisions waiving restrictions on the use of federal highway funds and may also shift money within the package to bolster the share for the Small Business Administration . 
`` We will support it , we will thank him , and we will augment it where appropriate , '' said Rep. Vic Fazio -LRB- D. , Calif . -RRB- . 
`` Such other amounts will be made available subsequently as required , '' the legislation reads , and the new obligations `` shall not be a charge against the Budget Act , Gramm-Rudman-Hollings , or other ceilings . 
Henry Sargent Jr. , Pinnacle executive vice president , said the action `` wo n't really have any effect on us . 
We are n't selling bonds right now , and I do n't think it will affect the value of our existing bonds . '' 
MeraBank 's rating for short-term deposits remains Not Prime . 
Where '60s dropouts professed to scorn middle-class life and ambitious yuppies hoped to leave it far behind as they scaled the upper reaches of success , it now seems that so many people feel they 're slipping between the cracks , that middle-class life is viewed with nostalgia or outright longing . 
Nora , who still has artistic aspirations , knows she is lucky to be working as a food stylist , prepping pies , burgers , frosty cold drinks and other comestibles to look as appetizing as possible in front of the camera . 
After all , she reasons , `` there were housewives with Nikons and degrees from cooking schools in France who would kill for her job . '' 
They seem to be having the `` worst of both worlds : artistic work with none of art 's integrity and no control over the finished product ; self-employment without fun or profit . '' 
Uncertainty dogs every aspect of their lives . 
Malcolm faces bankruptcy and an IRS audit , but Nora finds an extra $ 30,000 in her bank account , suddenly increasing her available funds some fifteenfold . 
While she is wondering whether to live it up , and do something even more dramatic , say get married , her life is further complicated by the reappearance of an old flame , David , a film critic and actor who always seems to be just on the brink of stardom . 
The irony in this novel is that neither man represents a `` safe '' middle-class haven : Nora 's decision is between emotional excitement and emotional security , with no firm economic base anywhere . 
: Nora 's decision is between emotional excitement and emotional security , with no firm economic base anywhere . 
The characters confront a world in which it seems increasingly difficult to find a `` middle way '' between the extremes of success and failure , wealth and poverty . 
The humor of the story owes much to the fact that no hearts -LRB- even the characters ' own -RRB- are likely to bleed for the plight of health-food eaters . 
`` Rascal Money '' -LRB- Contemporary Books , 412 pages , $ 17.95 -RRB- , a novel by consultant and business analyst Joseph R. Garber , tells the story of an innovative , well-run , widely respected computer manufacturing company called PegaSys as it faces a hostile takeover attempt by AIW , a much smaller corporation that is so incompetently managed as to constitute a standing joke in the business world . 
Standard-issue portraits of flaky Californians , snobbish homosexuals and Neanderthal union leaders undermine the force of the author 's perceptions . 
: If the head of AIW were not portrayed as an utterly contemptible , malicious dolt , we would not much care whether his schemes were defeated , and would not be so diverted in the process . 
Although major U.S. manufacturers have all but ceded the main segment of that future business to Japan , not everyone here is ready to give up . 
It already has had success in electroluminescence , another promising technology adaptable for high-definition television . 
General Electric Co. recently sold off its interests in liquid-crystal displays to Thompson-CSF of France . 
`` We found the market not developing as we thought it would , '' a GE spokesman says . 
`` No one yet has shown the ability to manufacture these panels '' at commercial costs , says Zvi Yaniv , the president of Ovonic Imaging . 
He says he thinks his company is just a few years from doing that . 
The only material support it is extending to the struggling U.S. industry is $ 30 million in awards from the Pentagon 's Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency . 
The DARPA funds are a pittance compared with what Japan and other prospective competitors are spending . 
The Commerce Department estimates that Japanese government and industry spending on HDTV research is already over $ 1 billion . 
Mr. Brody left the company to find other backers . 
`` They are n't prepared to compete in an area where the Japanese want to enter . '' 
; the Pentagon justifies its help on national-security grounds . 
`` We do n't see a domestic source for some of our -LCB- HDTV -RCB- requirements , and that 's a source of concern , '' says Michael Kelly , director of DARPA 's defense manufacturing office . 
The Navy is ordering displays for its Aegis cruisers and the Army wants smaller versions for its Abrams battle tanks . 
`` It is n't just yuppie television , '' argues Jack Clifford , director of the department 's office of microelectronics and instrumentation . 
`` The industry will create industrial products such as displays for work stations and medical diagnostic equipment before it acquires a mass consumer market . '' 
Each claims to possess the right technology and wants just a bit more money to make it commercial . 
They all are strongly opposed to a petition from several Japanese TV manufacturers , including Matsushita , Hitachi , and Toshiba , to exempt portable color TVs with liquid-crystal displays from anti-dumping duties that the U.S. imposes on the larger Japanese color TVs . 
Planar President James Hurd says he has to pay tariffs as high as 15 % to sell his display panels in Japan and South Korea , while panels from those countries enter the U.S. duty-free . 
`` We just have n't learned what it takes to compete . 
Critics of the plan , including the town of Braintree , say the incinerator is a health hazard . 
Alan McKim , chief executive officer of Clean Harbors said he was `` very much encouraged '' by the official 's praise of Clean Harbors for the quality of some of the data in the report . 
; the Security Pacific unit has about $ 1.8 billion annually . 
That individual was n't identified . 
A year earlier , it had a loss of $ 199,203 or nine cents a share , on revenue of $ 7.6 million . 
They are starting to buy growth stocks . 
The current flood of third-quarter reports are producing many more negative surprises than positive ones . 
That 's the path of reasoning leading to growth stocks . 
This kind of jumpy uncertainty reminds John Calverley , senior economist for American Express Bank , of the 1969-72 period , when the industrial average rolled through huge ranges and investors flocked to the shares of companies with proven earnings records , which became known as the `` nifty 50 . '' 
Cabanne Smith , president of a money management company bearing his name , predicts that investment companies using computers to identify companies with earnings `` momentum '' will climb on the growth-stock bandwagon as the overall corporate earnings outlook deteriorates further . 
Mr. Sloan praises the company as recession resistant and notes that it has an annual earnings growth rate of 32 % a year over the past five years . 
; Mr. Sloan thinks that in a year it could hit 60 . 
He recommends such blue-chip growth stalwarts as Philip Morris , PepsiCo , CPC International , Reebok International , and Limited Inc . 
All have a fiveyear earnings growth rate of more than 20 % a year . 
`` One of the stories of the fourth quarter is that we will get an unusual number of earnings disappointments from companies sensitive to the economy , '' says Mr. Boesel of T. Rowe Price . 
He recently trimmed his portfolio of International Paper , Dow Chemical , Quantum Chemical , International Business Machines and Digital Equipment . 
He is putting money in Dress Barn , Circuit City Stores , Bruno 's , and Rubbermaid . 
He cites IBM , which reported a 30 % earnings decline in the third quarter , and which last week announced a $ 1 billion buy-back of its shares . 
`` When they are buying back stock at 10 times earnings , they are suggesting that the rate of return on competing internal projects is below '' returns on the stock . 
IBM says it considers its shares a good investment . 
Growth stocks may underperform cyclical stocks next year if the Federal Reserve begins to let interest rates drift sufficiently lower to boost the economy . 
He suggests investors think about buying cyclical shares in the weeks ahead , as well as growth issues . 
Buy order imbalances on several big stocks were posted by the New York Stock Exchange . 
New York Stock Exchange volume was 164,830,000 . 
Advancers on the Big Board lagged decliners 662 to 829 . 
Standard & Poor 's 500-Stock Index gained 0.03 to 347.16 , the Dow Jones Equity Market Index fell 0.02 to 325.50 , and the New York Stock Exchange Composite Index fell 0.05 to 192.12 . 
The S&P 500 rose 4 % , the Dow Jones Equity Market index gained 3.7 % and the New York Stock Exchange composite index added 3.5 % . 
On the week , UAL was down nearly 40 % . 
The latest drop followed a decision by British Airways , which had supported the $ 300-a-share buy-out offer for UAL from a labor-management group , not to participate in any revised bid . 
International Paper dropped 5\/8 to 51 , Georgia-Pacific fell 1 3\/4 to 56 1\/4 , Stone Container tumbled 1 1\/2 to 26 5\/8 , Great Northern Nekoosa went down 5\/8 to 38 3\/8 and Weyerhaeuser lost 7\/8 to 28 1\/8 . 
Merrill Lynch cut its rating and 1990 earnings estimate Thursday , citing weakness in its credit-rating business . 
The company , which reported that its loss for the fiscal quarter ended Aug. 26 widened from a year earlier , cut its semiannual dividend in half in response to the earnings weakness . 
Stockholders who exercise all their rights may buy additional shares , the company said . 
The company said it has an option to increase the offering by up to 350,000 shares . 
The debt will include medium-term notes sold through Merrill Lynch Capital Markets ; Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. ; Goldman , Sachs & Co. and Salomon Brothers Inc . 
The life-insurance holding company said the sale would result in an after-tax gain of about $ 32 million , or $ 3.09 a share , in the first quarter of 
The change will result in a charge of about $ 8.5 million , or 82 cents a share , because of an increase in deferred income-tax liability . 
The complaint alleges that the price is `` unfair and grossly inadequate '' and that the defendants are seeking to ensure a `` lockup '' of the purchase of Unitel , thereby discouraging other bids . 
It seeks unspecified money damages . 
Greg Davies , Central Fund 's vice president , finance , said losses for the fiscal year ending Oct. 31 could be as high as one million Canadian dollars -LRB- US$ 852,000 -RRB- . 
Comair said it paid cash but declined to disclose the price . 
That 's based on a multiple of anywhere between 8.5 to 10 times UAL earnings , which are estimated to come in somewhere around $ 16 a share this year . 
That 's because airline earnings , like those of auto makers , have been subject to the cyclical ups-and-downs of the economy . 
At that level , and given the uncertainty , he believes UAL stock should trade closer to 
By that logic , the closing of a deal could be much further away than three to four months , even though the eventual price might be higher . 
On Friday , they also persuaded the UAL flight attendants to join them . 
That way , they figure , someone else has an even stronger motivation to make sure the deal is going to work , because they would be losing their money before the banks lost theirs . 
Investors such as Marvin Davis of Los Angeles who have sought airline ownership this year have insisted they , not the pilots , must have control . 
The pilots could borrow against the value of their concessions , using the proceeds to buy back stock from the public and give themselves the majority control they have been seeking . 
The lack of any new cash probably would still leave the banks dissatisfied . 
First Boston 's estimates had been higher before management supplied a 1989 projection . 
American Airlines parent AMR and USAir Group , both subject to takeover efforts themselves , have each warned of declining results . 
The deal has , as one takeover expert puts it , `` so many moving parts . 
I do n't see anybody who 's sophisticated getting his name associated with this mess until the moving parts stop moving . '' 
Frank Gallagher , an analyst with Phoenix Capital Corp. in New York , estimates that the arbs paid an average of about $ 280 a share for their UAL positions . 
That would indicate that the arbs have paper losses on UAL alone totalling $ 725 million . 
Revenue grew 24 % to $ 614.5 million from $ 497.1 million . 
Revenue was $ 41.2 million , up from $ 27.5 million . 
Revenue was $ 111.9 million , up 50 % from $ 74.8 million . 
During the third quarter , it said , it won several significant contracts , including a five-year contract with the National Institutes of Health valued at an estimated $ 8 million . 
The new products allow customers to add Convex machines to established systems made by other manufacturers , which `` opens up a phenomenal market for us , '' said Robert J. Paluck , Convex 's chairman , president and chief executive . 
Most other supercomputer manufacturers have yet to adopt the Posix standard , Mr. Paluck said , adding that they prefer to maintain proprietary systems that lock in customers . 
More recently , Interpublic inquired about one of Saatchi 's smaller communications companies -- identified as the Rowland public relations firm by several industry executives -- but again was rebuffed , they said . 
He added , `` We have no intention of selling either business . '' 
Takeover speculation has been rife , its consulting business is on the block , and its largest shareholder , Southeastern Asset Management , has said it 's been approached by third parties regarding a possible restructuring . 
Analysts have continually lowered their earnings estimates for the company , and their outlook , at least for the short term , is bleak . 
It named a new chief executive officer , former IMS International head Robert Louis-Dreyfus . 
It rebuffed an offer by Carl Spielvogel , head of Saatchi 's Backer Spielvogel Bates unit , to lead a management buy-out of all or part of Saatchi . 
While Saatchi 's major agency networks -- Backer Spielvogel and Saatchi & Saatchi Advertising -- would be difficult for any ad firm to buy because of potential client conflicts , its smaller businesses are quite attractive . 
That would would make it appealing to a network such as Interpublic that already has a healthy New York presence . 
: It has billings of about $ 850 million and blue-chip clients including General Mills , Jeep\/Eagle and Dow Brands . 
It would be attractive to an agency such as Interpublic , one of the few big agency groups without an affiliated public relations firm of its own . 
Mr. Louis-Dreyfus , in a recent interview , said he might sell `` a marginal agency or office . '' 
Among other things , the memo contends that Young & Rubicam gave false assurances that the investigation would n't uncover any information that would `` embarrass the government of Jamaica or the Jamaica Tourist Board . '' 
The U.S. indictment charges Ad Ventures was a front used to funnel kickbacks to the then-minister of tourism . 
American Suzuki 's previous agency , Keye\/Donna\/Pearlstein , did n't participate . 
David Tagg , formerly in charge of gambling operations , was appointed chief executive for retailing and property . 
Peter Cawdron , group strategy development director , and Bill Shardlow , group personnel director , will become part of the board 's management committee . 
He is currently experiencing what it 's like to have the phrase , `` under investigation for scientific fraud , '' also attached to his name . 
; John Dingell 's congressional committee created the second . 
Rep. Dingell even managed to enlist the services of the Secret Service in his investigation of the Baltimore paper . 
John Dingell demagogues a David Baltimore , animal-rights activists do $ 3.5 million of damage to labs at the U.Cal-Davis , Meryl Streep decries the horrors of chemistry on talk shows , Jeremy Rifkin files lawsuits in federal court to thwart biotech experiments , and Dutch-elm-disease researcher Gary Strobel 's own colleagues at Montana State denounce him for `` violating '' EPA rules . 
-LRB- Mr. Dingell , by the way , has decreed another NIH investigation of the Baltimore paper , adding to several previous investigations . 
Something other than what most scientists would recognize as the truth is being sought here . -RRB- 
David Hubel , a Nobel laureate at Harvard , has taken the lead in defending research with animals , as has Dr. Michael DeBakey . 
NASA defended itself vigorously and successfully against a Rifkin suit to block the Galileo launch . 
In a media-linked world , scientists may earn wide praise and even Nobels for their work , but they also attract the attention of people who wish to gain control over the content , funding and goals of that work . 
When a David Baltimore -- or the next target -- decides it is better to stand up to these forces , his fellow scientists would do well to recognize what is fundamentally at stake , and offer their public support . 
Everything 's a Dollar operates 60 specialty-retail stores . 
Despite a history of heated local debate on the topic , my passport clearly reads `` British citizen . '' 
The board expands to seven members . 
The disabled-workers bill -LRB- quack , quack -RRB- . Federal child care -LRB- quack -RRB- . The Clean Air bill -LRB- quack -RRB- . 
The Clean Air bill -LRB- quack -RRB- . 
The disabled-workers bill -LRB- quack , quack -RRB- . 
The Bush White House is breeding non-duck ducks the same way the Nixon White House did : It hops on an issue that is unopposable -- cleaner air , better treatment of the disabled , better child care . It comes up with a toned-down version of a Democratic proposal . The bill gets signed into law and then the administration watches helplessly , wondering where all the `` unexpected '' costs came from . 
It comes up with a toned-down version of a Democratic proposal . 
The bill gets signed into law and then the administration watches helplessly , wondering where all the `` unexpected '' costs came from . 
It would create 38,000 local day-care commissions , answerable to the Department of Health and Human Services . 
They 'd determine where parents could store their kids during the day , and they 'd regulate the storage facilities . 
New entitlements tend to grow , creating a rationale for new taxes . 
The money spent on scrubbers is diverted from planned research on new , cleaner technology . 
Other analysts say that estimate is low . 
It is an intentionally vague document that will create a wave of litigation . 
Judges will write the real bill as suits roll through the courts . 
Lawyers will benefit . 
Private companies , and ultimately their customers , will end up footing the huge bill . 
All this was recognized and documented in the succeeding years by economists , some of whom worked in the Reagan administration to lift this burden from the American people , states and local governments . 
Then it turned up , and by one estimate the number will be up to about 109,000 regulators by next year . 
It is merely the most obvious . 
What is even more ironic is that all over the world nations are learning that well-intentioned public programs often backfire . 
He reckons the current account deficit will narrow to only # 1.8 billion in September . 
Combined with at least some rebound in exports after August 's unexpected decline , the deficit could narrow to as little as # 1.3 billion . 
In his Mansion House speech , Mr. Lawson warned that a further slowdown can be expected as the impact of the last rise in interest rates earlier this month takes effect . 
The figures show that spending rose 0.1 % in the third quarter from the second quarter and was up 3.8 % from a year ago . 
This compares with a 1.6 % rise in the second from the first quarter and a 5.4 % increase from the second quarter of 1988 . 
Thursday , he reminded his audience that the government `` can not allow the necessary rigor of monetary policy to be undermined by exchange rate weakness . '' 
In European trading it declined to $ 1.5890 and 2.9495 marks from $ 1.5940 and 2.9429 marks late Thursday . 
It now holds 233,000 A.P. Green common shares , including 30,000 shares bought last Thursday for $ 35.50 to $ 36.50 a share . 
Major shippers say they expect freight rates to rise at least as fast as inflation and maybe faster in the next few years . 
That 's a big change from recent years when freight haulage was a bright spot for U.S. productivity , helping to restrain inflation and make U.S. industry more competitive abroad . 
Only 10 % of the 250 shippers polled expected their freight-transport costs to decrease , compared with 30 % who had looked to freight transport to reduce costs in past years . 
`` This is the first year since transportation deregulation in 1980 that we have had such a dramatic and broad-based upturn in perceived transportation rates , '' said Bernard LaLonde , a transportation logistics professor at Ohio State in Columbus . 
Carriers could use their equipment more efficiently , leading to overcapacity they were eager to fill . 
Shippers cut about $ 35 billion from their annual , inter-city truck and rail costs , to about $ 150 billion , or about 6.4 % of gross national product , down from 8 % of GNP in 1981 . 
`` Shippers wo n't be able to look for transportation-cost savings as they have for the last eight or nine years . 
Transport rates wo n't be an opportunity for offsetting cost increases in other segments of the economy . '' 
Now we are starting to see real freight-rate increases as carriers replace equipment , pay higher fuel costs and pay more for labor . 
You 'll see carriers try to recoup some of the price cutting that occurred previously . '' 
`` There 's still a lot of pressure on rates in both rail and truck , '' said Gerard McCullough , lecturer in transportation at Massachusetts Institute of Technology . 
Less-than-truckload companies , which carry the freight of several shippers in each truck trailer , discounted away a 4.7 % rate increase implemented last April . 
The carriers were competing fiercely for market share . 
Consolidated Freightways plans to raise its rates 5.3 % late this year or early next year , and at least two competitors have announced similar increases . 
Some bulk shipping rates have increased `` 3 % to 4 % in the past few months , '' said Salomon 's Mr. Lloyd . 
Carriers boosted rates more than 10 % in the North Atlantic between the U.S. and Europe last September , hoping to partly restore rates to earlier levels . 
Ship lines operating in the Pacific plan to raise rates on containers carrying U.S. exports to Asia about 10 % , effective next April . 
Mr. Stone thought the discipline was unfair ; he believed that his manager wanted to get rid of him for personal reasons . 
; he believed that his manager wanted to get rid of him for personal reasons . 
Unable to persuade the manager to change his decision , he went to a `` company court '' for a hearing . 
After the three members of the court introduced themselves , the chairman of the panel said : `` Go ahead and tell us what happened . 
The only extra people were a couple of personnel specialists , one of whom knew Mr. Stone 's case intimately and would help fill in any facts needed to give the court the full picture . 
When he was through , the court members asked many questions , then the chairman said they would like to hear his manager 's side and talk to witnesses . 
The chairman promised Mr. Stone a decision within two weeks . 
It happened at Northrop Corp. in Los Angeles . 
These firms are pioneers in a significant new trend in the corporate world : the rise of what I call corporate due process . 
Although corporate due process is practiced today in few companies -- perhaps 40 to 60 -- it is one of the fastest developing trends in industry . 
In the coming decade a majority of people-oriented companies are likely to adopt it . 
It reduces lawsuits from disgruntled employees and ex-employees , with all that means for reduced legal costs and better public relations . 
It helps to keep out unions . 
It increases employee commitment to the company , with all that means for efficiency and quality control . 
What must your management team do to establish corporate due process ? 
It must be able to handle most of the complaints that can not be solved in the trenches by managers and their subordinates , else the company court or adjudicators will be inundated with cases . 
At Polaroid , the Personnel Policy Planning Committee may hear only about 20 cases a year ; the rest of the many hundreds of complaints are resolved at earlier stages . 
; the rest of the many hundreds of complaints are resolved at earlier stages . 
At TWA , the System Board of Adjustment hears 50 to 75 cases a year , only a fraction of the complaints brought to personnel specialists . 
At Citicorp , the Problem Review Board may hear only 12 or so cases because of personnel 's skill in complaint-resolution . 
In a large company that means many hundreds of complaints for personnel to handle . 
See that they know company personnel policy backwards and forwards , for it is the `` law '' governing company courts and adjudicators . 
Coach them in handling complaints so that they can resolve problems immediately . 
In case managers and personnel specialists are unsuccessful and subordinates take their complaints to a company court or adjudicator , teach managers to accept reversals as a fact of business life , for in a good due-process system they are bound to happen . 
In the 15 companies I studied , reversal rates range on the average from 20 % to 40 % . 
A panel system like that in the Bob Stone example enjoys such advantages as high credibility and , for the panelists , mutual support . 
An adjudicator system -- that is , an investigator who acts first as a fact-finder and then switches hats and arbitrates the facts -- has such advantages as speed , flexibility and maximum privacy . 
It wo n't do any good for anybody unless employees know about it . 
Most managements hesitate to go all out in advertising their due-process systems for fear of encouraging cranks and chronic soreheads to file complaints . 
At IBM , the company 's Open Door system is sometimes the subject of memorandums from the chief executive . 
Federal Express goes further in this respect than any company I know of with both Frederick Smith and James Barksdale , chief executive and chief operating officer , respectively , sitting in on the Appeals Board almost every Tuesday to decide cases . 
The index advanced 266.66 points Thursday . 
Volume in the second section was estimated at 30 million shares , up from 28 million Thursday . 
The Tokyo market 's resiliency helped participants to regain confidence gradually as they spent more time on analyzing factors that caused the Friday plunge and realized these problems were unique to New York stocks and not directly related to Tokyo . 
The Nikkei continued to gain for the rest of the week , adding 1017.69 points in four days -- more than erasing Monday 's losses . 
Investors are still waiting to see how the U.S. government will decide on interest rates and how the dollar will be stabilized . 
Kyocera advanced 80 yen to 5,440 . 
Fanuc gained 100 to 7,580 . 
Misawa Homes was up 20 at 2,960 . 
The index finished 2.4 % under its close of 2233.9 the previous Friday , although it recouped some of the sharp losses staged early last week on the back of Wall Street 's fall . 
The FT-SE 100 largely remained within an 11-point range establshed within the first hour of trading before it eased to an intraday low late in the session when a flurry of program selling pushed Wall Street lower . 
Volume was extremely thin at 351.3 million shares , the lightest volume of the week and modestly under Thursday 's 387.4 million shares . 
Interest may remain limited into tomorrow 's U.K. trade figures , which the market will be watching closely to see if there is any improvement after disappointing numbers in the previous two months . 
The key corporate news of the day was that British Airways decided to withdraw from a management-led bid for UAL Corp. , the parent of United Airlines . 
Dealers said they viewed the initial # 390-million -LRB- $ 622 million -RRB- outlay for a 15 % stake in the airline as a bit much . 
Sir James said Thursday night that his plans for the takeover had n't changed . 
Prices were lower in Frankfurt , Zurich , Paris and Amsterdam . 
South African gold stocks closed moderately lower . 
Officials familiar with the meeting said Mr. Bush cited the policy as an example of the sort of congressional requirements the administration contends contribute to the failure of such covert actions as this month 's futile effort to oust Panamanian dictator Manuel Noriega . 
They said the president conceded the notification requirement did n't affect his decision to lend only minor support to this month 's Panama coup effort . 
No notification was ever considered , officials said , apparently because the U.S. did n't think the coup plotters intended to kill Mr. Noriega , but merely sought to imprison him . 
The rewriting was launched at a meeting between Mr. Bush and intelligence committee leaders Oct. 12 , a few days before the meeting at which the president complained about the rules . 
It has reopened the bitter wrangling between the White House and Congress over who is responsible for the failure to oust Mr. Noriega and , more broadly , for difficulties in carrying out covert activities abroad . 
The statement added , `` Someone has regrettably chosen to selectively summarize portions of highly classified correspondence between the two branches of government . 
Not only does this come close to a violation of law , it violates the trust we have all worked to develop . '' 
I 've invited the president to send his suggestions to the committee . '' 
One administration official said notification was required even if the U.S. `` gets wind '' of somebody else 's coup plans that seem likely to endanger a dictator 's life . 
One senior administration official called the guideline `` outrageous '' and said it could make U.S. operatives reluctant to even listen to coup plans for fear they may get into legal trouble . 
Last week , Central Intelligence Agency Director William Webster publicly called on Congress to provide new interpretations of the assassination order that would permit the U.S. more freedom to act in coups . 
The three men agreed to rewrite the guidelines , without changing the basic assassination ban , to clear up any ambiguities that may have hampered U.S. encouragement of coups against anti-American leaders . 
By 1980 , there were more than 100 such funds . 
This had been the exclusive province of those rich enough to use six-figure sums to get income that was figured beyond the third or fourth decimal place . 
An early fund had filed a registration with the Securities and Exchange Commission that included a fixed $ 1 price . 
His successor approved the $ 1 price in the process of clearing the backed-up papers on his desk . 
When Dreyfus started the first advertising-backed retail fund in February 1974 , it was priced at $ 10 a share -LRB- and reached $ 1 billion in assets in one year . -RRB- 
Dreyfus moved to the $ 1 price after the SEC set standards -- an average 120-day maturity of high-grade paper -- that are still the rule . 
Actually , the funds do fluctuate , but beyond the third decimal place . 
-LRB- The companion tax-exempt funds add $ 71 billion . -RRB- 
In addition to softer production data , weaker housing starts and lower corporate profits currently in evidence , some analysts believe the two recent natural disasters -- Hurricane Hugo and the San Francisco earthquake -- will carry economic ramifications in the fourth quarter . 
The economy , he noted , moves the market , not vice versa . 
His estimate of 3.3 % for third-quarter GNP is higher than the consensus largely because he believes current inventories are n't as low as official figures indicate . 
Demand , he believes , is being met from overhang rather than new production . 
Edward J. Campbell , economist at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. , New York , noted that large increases in construction activity along with government and private relief efforts could offset loss of production in those areas . 
He expects real GNP growth of only 2.1 % for the quarter , noting a wider trade deficit , slower capital and government spending and the lower inventory figures . 
In August , personal income rose 0.4 % and personal consumption increased 0.9 % . 
As usual , estimates on the fickle report are wide , running from a drop of 3.5 % to a gain of 1.6 % . 
This is the 11th consecutive quarter in which the company has paid shareholders an extra dividend of five cents . 
In May , Mr. Brierley 's stake shrank to 8.7 % after ranging between 9 % and 11 % for much of the previous year . 
The spokesman refused to comment on speculation that Industrial Equity might use its interest as a platform to launch a hostile bid for the company . 
If the whole market thinks what you 're doing is crazy you do n't have much competition . '' 
At current market prices , the twin public offerings to be completed next year would add an estimated 2.5 billion Swedish kronor -LRB- $ 386 million -RRB- to Trelleborg 's coffers , analysts say . 
Tuesday , the shares regained SKr20 , closing at SKr225 . 
Trelleborg plans to remain the dominant shareholder with stakes of slightly less than 50 % of both units . 
A family foundation set up by late founder Henry Dunker controls 59 % of Trelleborg 's voting shares outstanding . But the foundation bylaws require the entire Trelleborg stake to be sold in the open market if control drops below 50 % . 
Applying prowess gained during earlier stints at appliance maker AB Electrolux , Mr. Andersson and a handful of loyal lieutenants aggressively stripped away dead wood -- and got quick results . 
Between 1985 and 1988 , sales multipled more than 10 times and pretax profit surged almost twelvefold . 
Industry analysts suggest that the conquest of Falconbridge could vault Trelleborg from a regional Scandinavian success story to a world-class mining concern . 
Mr. Andersson acknowledges that the company 's mining division `` will be busy for a while digesting its recent expansion . '' 
Falconbridge , he says , will continue operating in its current form . 
`` That 's beginning to change . 
Proceeds of the Adobe sale brought net income in the quarter to $ 161.1 million , or $ 1.24 a share . 
Including the Adobe gain , full-year net was $ 454 million , or $ 3.53 a share . 
John Sculley , chairman and chief executive officer , credited the Macintosh SE\/30 and IIcx computers , introduced in the winter , for the brightened sales performance . 
Margins in the fiscal fourth quarter perked up , rising to 51 % from 49.2 % a year earlier . 
He remains chief executive officer . 
He remains an executive vice president , the company said , and his new position reflects `` the growing importance of the world automotive market as a market for A. Schulman 's high performance plastic materials . '' 
Of the $ 4.4 billion spent so far on the program , 60 % is going for administrative costs , management and research , the Office of Technology Assessment just reported . 
Only 36 of 1,200 priority cleanup sites have been `` decontaminated . '' 
At current allocations , that means EPA will be spending $ 300 billion on itself . 
It may not be toxic , but we know where one waste dump is . 
Mr. Eisenberg was senior executive vice president and chief operating officer . 
The computers will display stock prices selected by users . 
Of the four , only the bank and the plant drew bids -- one apiece . 
Two years later , Mrs. Aquino 's promise remains largely unfulfilled . 
Manila is offering several major assets for the first time and is trying to conclude sales already arranged . 
All told , there are assets on the line valued at up to $ 1.03 billion . 
Most recently , a lack of buyers has been added to the list . 
The axiom appears to be that the more valuable the asset , the harder the privatization process . 
`` You just do n't see a whole lot happening , '' says an international economist . 
The Asset Privatization Trust , the agency chiefly responsible for selling government-held properties , has recorded sales of more than $ 500 million since it began functioning in December 1986 . 
Ramon Garcia , the Asset Trust 's executive trustee , admits to what he calls `` temporary setbacks . '' 
In light of the poor results recently , he says , the agency is adopting an `` attitude of flexibility . '' 
At the end of the month , the agency again will offer the bank . 
The bank has a negative net worth , they say . 
In 1983 , the loans were converted into equity , giving Manila 98 % of the bank , but with the understanding that Mr. Ty had repurchase rights . 
His ability to match any bid has scared off many potential buyers . 
The price will depend on how much Picop shares fetch on the local stock market . 
As it stands now , the government would continue to hold 45 % of Picop after the 36 % stake is sold . 
-LRB- About 7.5 % of Picop is publicly traded and other shareholders own the rest of the equity . -RRB- 
A series of newspaper articles accused the trust of short-changing the government over the Picop sale . 
Mr. Garcia says he has been notified of congressional hearings on the Picop bidding and possible legislation covering the paper mill 's sale , both prompted by the criticism of the agency . 
Tangible capital will be about $ 115 million . 
Each share of Eagle , based in Bristol , will become 0.95 share of Webster\/Eagle . 
In national over-the-counter trading , Webster shares fell 25 cents to $ 12.375 . 
Nonperforming loans will make up only about 0.5 % of the combined banks ' total loans outstanding , he said . 
Eagle , which controls Bristol Federal Savings Bank and First Federal Savings & Loan Association of Torrington , had assets of $ 469.6 million on that date . 
In the same sentence he contradicts himself when he reports that the government still retains 40 % of the total equity of the airline . 
How can a company be considered `` privatized '' if the state is so heavily represented in it ? 
I refer essentially to petroleum , electric power , banking and newsprint . 
They are officially considered `` strategic , '' and their privatization is prohibited by the Mexican Constitution . 
A long succession of Mexican presidents arbitrarily nationalized whatever industry they took a fancy to , without having to answer to the public . 
To guarantee that Mexicana de Aviacion and other companies will really be privatized , Mexico needs a pluri-party political system that will ensure democracy and hence accountability . 
The third-largest thrift institution in Puerto Rico also said it expects a return to profitability in the third quarter when it reports operating results this week . 
Ponce Federal said the dividend was suspended in anticipation of more stringent capital requirements under the Financial Institutions Reform , Recovery , and Enforcement Act of 1989 . 
After the collapse of the last effort , the group does n't plan to make any formal proposal without binding commitments from banks covering the entire amount to be borrowed . 
The difference is that current holders would n't retain majority ownership or control . 
Management 's total could be reduced , and the public could get more than the 15 % control that had been earmarked for British Air . 
Although the pilots are expected to continue to pursue the bid , UAL Chairman Stephen Wolf may be asked to withdraw from the buy-out effort , at least temporarily , and to return to running the company full time . 
The labor-management buy-out group plans to keep its offer on the table in an apparent attempt to maintain its bargaining position with the board . 
Remaining proceeds were used to pay other debt and to finance the company 's capital spending program . 
He may sell more shares in the open market or in private transactions , but would n't rule out changing his intentions and buying shares , the filing said . 
The collapse Friday prompted speculation that Ford would intensify its pursuit of Jaguar , which is negotiating a defensive alliance with GM . 
The Dow Jones industrials rose 5.94 , to 2689.14 , making the gain for the week a record 119.88 points , or 4.7 % . 
Most bond prices fell , but junk bonds and the dollar rose . 
First Interstate Bancorp of Los Angeles said Friday it expects a $ 16 million quarterly loss , citing property-loan losses at its Arizona unit . 
Trucking , shipping and air-freight firms are all planning rate increases , reflecting higher costs and tightened demand . 
It is Texaco 's first major acquisition since the legal battle with Pennzoil began over four years ago . 
Sales rose 12 % to $ 249.5 million from $ 222.8 million . 
An FDA spokesperson said the drugs are still available under other brand names . 
While the company said chemical margins continued to worsen this quarter , costs will be lower because the maintenance and expansions are complete . 
Members of the largest union , representing 1,700 workers , voted in favor of the pact yesterday . 
In the year-ago period , Amgen reported net income of $ 320,000 , or two cents a share , on revenue of $ 21.5 million . 
The five astronauts , who stowed gear and tested the spacecraft 's steering , said they were unconcerned about the touchy weather expected in the Mojave Desert . 
The 49-nation organization , meeting in Malaysia , called for tighter financial pressure immediately . 
Despite the pledge by the Communist rulers , tens of thousands of people across the country staged marches over the weekend to demand democratic freedoms . 
In Leipzig , more than 500 people met with local party officials to discuss internal changes . 
The chamber voted 69-26 Friday to convict the judge of perjury and bribery conspiracy . 
It marked the first time a U.S. official was impeached on charges of which a jury had acquitted him . 
The molecule is the mouse version of a protein called the interleukin-4 receptor , which directs the growth and function of white blood cells . 
Information systems posted a loss of $ 8 million , compared with a loss of $ 9 million a year earlier . 
Mr. Krenz is such a contradictory figure that nobody has even come up with any good jokes about him . 
`` With Krenz , we just do n't know what to expect . '' 
Mr. Krenz does n't seem to be the knee-jerk hardliner many initially thought he was when the 52-year-old Politburo member was selected last week to succeed Erich Honecker . 
Already last week , Mr. Krenz started overhauling East Germany 's heavily censored and notoriously boring news media . 
On Thursday , a day after he took office , East German television broke into regular programming to launch a talk show in which viewers call in questions for a panel of officials to answer . 
`` For the first time in my life , I was n't sure whether I was listening to our news or West German television . '' 
Mr. Krenz is not only closely identified with his mentor , Mr. Honecker , but also blamed for ordering violent police action against protesters this month and for praising China for sending tanks against student demonstrators . 
`` The most important thing is that he have a chance . '' 
Unlike Mr. Honecker , who tended to lecture people about socialist values , Mr. Krenz enjoys asking questions . 
At one point , he asked a worker whether he thought East Germans were fleeing the country because of restrictive travel policies . 
The worker 's tart reply : `` It 's more than just travel . 
People have a sense the government is ignoring the real problems in our society . '' 
Rather than trying to `` lecture us , '' says one congressional aide who attended the two-hour meeting , Mr. Krenz `` wanted to listen . '' 
Rep. Ronnie Flippo -LRB- D. , Ala. -RRB- , one of the members of the delegation , says he was particularly impressed by Mr. Krenz 's ready admission that East Germany needed to change . 
Born in a Baltic town in an area which is now part of Poland , he has dedicated his life to the party apparatus . 
Even if he is , she adds , he appears to have only limited room for maneuver within the Communist Party 's ruling Politburo . 
The sudden growth of the opposition movement , together with the steady outflow of citizens escaping through Poland and Hungary , has plunged the country into its deepest political crisis since an anti-Soviet workers ' uprising in 1953 . 
The diplomat adds that Mr. Krenz has several things going for him . 
The East German economy is strong compared with other East bloc nations . 
`` Either he was n't being real in the past , or he is n't being real right now , '' says a 30-year-old East German doctor . 
`` Either way , I have a problem with how quickly he 's changed . '' 
Television last week carried a new report on East Berlin 's main wallpaper factory and the need to boost production . 
East Germans remember a comment a few years ago by Kurt Hager , the government 's top ideologist , that just because a neighbor hangs new wallpaper , there 's no reason to change your own . 
His point was there is no reason for East Germany to copy Soviet-style changes . 
New experiments at some of the big national laboratories are still unable to find hints of nuclear fusion reactions , leaving only the finding of tritium in a Texas experiment to support University of Utah chemists ' claim of achieving hydrogen fusion at room temperatures . 
Of the 1,300 chemists registered for the society 's weeklong meeting , fewer than 200 sat through the day and a half of cold fusion presentations at week 's end . 
This was in contrast with the society 's meeting last May , at the height of the controversy , when more than 1,500 scientists , along with scores of reporters and TV crews , crowded into a Los Angeles hotel ballroom for a tumultuous special night session on the subject . 
The heat energy plus the energy consumed by the breakup of the water molecules added to far more energy coming out of the apparatus than electrical energy going in , they reported . 
Because they also detected tritium and indications of nuclear radiation , they asserted that the `` excess '' heat energy must be coming from energy released by the nuclear fusion of deuterium atoms inside the palladium rod . 
On the fourth `` run '' with the borrowed rod , the experiment began producing excess heat . 
The experiment was stopped briefly to change an instrument . 
When it was restarted , heat output `` really took off '' and produced excess heat for several hours before dying down , he said . 
It would go along doing nothing but dissociating the heavy water and then at totally unpredictable times , it would begin producing excess heat for as long as 10 or 11 hours before quieting down . 
`` There is a reality to the excess energy , '' he said . 
The bursts often occur , they said , after they `` perturbed '' the experiments by raising or lowering the amount of electric current being applied , or switching the current off and on . 
One chemist privately suggested this hinted that some `` anomalous '' chemical reactions might be producing the heat . 
Typically , the input energy ranges from a third of a watt to one watt and the excess energy is measured in tenths of a watt . 
One exception is a continuing experiment at Stanford University where as much as 10 watts of energy are being put into the electrolytic cells . 
A cell filled with heavy water is producing 1.0 to 1.5 watts more heat than an identical electrolytic cell filled with ordinary water next to it , reported Turgut M. Gur , an associate of materials scientist Robert A. Huggins , head of the Stanford experimental team . 
He said that within the past few days , he 's gotten evidence that there is a `` weak correlation '' between the time the heat bursts occur and the production of tritium . 
There is n't any way to continuously measure the amount of tritium in the heavy water , so it 's been difficult to tell whether the tritium formation is related to the heat bursts or some other phenomenon . 
Researchers at Sandia National Laboratories in Albuquerque , N.M. , reported they went so far as to take a `` cold fusion '' experiment and three neutron detectors into a tunnel under 300 feet of granite to shield the detectors from cosmic rays . 
In subsequent experiments , one of two neutron detectors occasionally indicated a burst of neutrons but neutron bursts were never recorded in both detectors at the same time . 
They concluded the indications of neutrons stemmed from faults in the detectors rather than from the cold fusion experiment . 
`` We have invested in improved editorial quality and expanded our quality audience without substantially increasing our costs . 
Rates for the Wall Street Journal Reports will remain unchanged . 
Rates for The Asian Wall Street Journal , published and printed in Hong Kong and also printed in Singapore and Tokyo , will rise 8 % . 
Rates for The Asian Wall Street Journal Weekly , published in New York for North American readers , will rise 6 % . 
It owns 67 % of Telerate Inc. , a leading supplier of computerized financial information on global markets . 
Sales fell 2.5 % to $ 1.54 billion from $ 1.58 billion . 
Sales were $ 4.66 billion , up 1.3 % from $ 4.6 billion . 
That , coupled with lower semiconductor prices and higher semiconductor-depreciation expense , contributed to the decline in sales and profit . 
The nine months include $ 125 million of royalty income , up from $ 98 million last year . 
The company , which has interests in television , trucking services , and glass-making and food-processing equipment , said it plans to make other acquisitions in the telephone industry . 
While some 100 million ounces of silver once held by Mr. Hunt and Middle Eastern associates are n't hanging over the market anymore , the price surge of 1979-80 precipitated an expansion of mine production and scrap recovery and encouraged silver consumers to economize on silver use , Mr. Edgar says . 
Japanese and U.S. photographic firms are beginning to produce electronic cameras and X-rays that do n't require silver , dealers say . 
Even in the present uncertain investment climate , investors are preferring `` quality assets '' such as Treasury bills and bonds to gold , silver and platinum , dealers say . 
Although prices rallied briefly following the tumble on world stock markets earlier this month and the related decline of the dollar , precious metals are out of favor for the moment because of high interest rates and a determination by industrial nations to curb inflation , dealers say . 
`` Bargain hunters believe that silver offers the best value amongst precious metals , '' says Frederick R. Demler , analyst at Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc . 
Scrap merchants are converting smaller quantities of metal into silver , while low prices are discouraging exports from India and the Soviet Union . 
Silver prices could also be boosted by strikes in leading producing nations Peru and Mexico , Mr. Demler says . 
Japanese demand grew by 70 % in the first half of this year and the nation plans an issue of a silver commemorative coin that will require 4.5 million ounces . 
Many industry analysts had been projecting a 3 % decline in placements for the quarter . 
A shortage of young cattle has made them more expensive for feedlot operators to buy . 
Others said that the drop continued the downward correction that 's been due in the petroleum pits and that such a trend could well continue in the next several trading sessions . 
Barring any petroleum-related news events , trading in the days ahead should further test recent projections by oil economists and other market watchers that strong fourth-quarter demand will keep prices firm . 
Pressure came from several developments including the settlement of two long-term strikes . 
On Friday , one analyst said , rank-and-file workers ratified a new labor agreement ending a three-month strike at the Highland Valley mine in British Columbia . 
The premium of cash copper to the three-month forward offerings narrowed , indicating weaker demand for cash copper . 
A technical analyst said there were a number of stop-loss orders under that level that were touched off when the contract 's price fell below it . 
That brought in considerable fund selling , which continued until the close of trading . 
`` In general , it was a bearish close , '' said Ben Hanauer , a copper trader at Rudolph Wolff & Co. , a major commodities trading and brokerage firm . 
Another analyst said he expected LME inventories to be down by about 15,000 tons when the weekly report is issued . 
Mr. Savaiko said he sees a possibility of the December contract dropping to $ 1.05 a pound . 
If a machine has a big computing task , Task Broker asks other computers in the network for `` bids '' on the job . 
In today 's computer networks , some machines often sit idle while others are overtaxed . 
With the Hewlett-Packard program , he said , `` You get more bang for the buck you 've spent on computers . '' 
Hewlett-Packard said it will sell versions later next year that run on Sun Microsystems Inc. and Digital Equipment Corp. machines . 
The Task Broker `` turns that network into -- as far as the user is concerned -- one giant computer , '' said Bill Kay , general manager of Hewlett-Packard 's workstation group . 
The fight is putting a tight squeeze on profits of many , threatening to drive the smallest ones out of business and straining relations between the national fast-food chains and their franchisees . 
Though Charisma 's sales are up slightly this year , Mr. Harty says profits will be flat or lower . 
That brought a chain reaction in the industry . 
; so are 99-cent specials on sandwiches normally priced twice as high . 
The discounting , say fast-food operators , occurs on a scale and with a frequency they have n't seen before . 
The result is that some franchisees are running hard just to stay even , laying off middle managers and working harder to make less . 
`` It 's almost as if you 're doing extra work to give away the food , '' he says . 
With fast-food outlets on every corner , he , like many , does n't think he has a choice in the price war : `` Our customers say that they wo n't go into a fast-food store unless they get a coupon . '' 
: `` Our customers say that they wo n't go into a fast-food store unless they get a coupon . '' 
`` The industry is overbuilt , '' he says . 
`` Fast-food franchisers have managed to squeeze in stores into every corner available . '' 
With the market so crowded , says a spokesman for Wendy 's in Columbus , Ohio , `` If you 're doing well , you 're doing well at someone else 's expense . '' 
`` McDonald 's has also been running negative all year , '' the analyst says . 
Jack Greenberg , executive vice president and chief financial officer of McDonald 's , says the company does n't compute , much less disclose , inflation-adjusted , same-store sales . 
He adds that short-term comparisons `` can be very misleading because of differences in timing of marketing programs from year to year . '' 
Profits of franchisees have n't been higher since the mid-1970s , he adds . 
Smaller chains and single-store operators will be the first to fail , many in the industry predict . 
Big franchise groups `` can ride out the storm a lot longer , '' says Mr. Harty , the Burger King operator in New York . 
Mr. Morrissey , the Kentucky Fried Chicken franchisee , notes that most franchise owners must absorb increases in expenses without any cut in the royalties , or portion of sales , that they must pay franchisers . 
He says courts have held that antitrust considerations are outweighed in such cases by the need to protect consumers from deceptive marketing . 
Says Mr. Riese of National Restaurants : `` If you resisted on prices , maybe you would never get that telephone call about a new franchise . 
Mr. Jackson , who won the nickname `` Mr. October '' for his World Series exploits , is selling some of his canceled checks to autograph collectors through a dealer for as much as $ 500 each . 
`` I do n't know of any living ballplayer that 's ever done it , '' says Jack Smalling , a dealer in Ames , Iowa , and a recognized expert in the field of baseball autographs . 
Mr. Jackson showed up at the affair to sign autographs for a fee as well . 
`` Maybe three years ago , there were a lot of -LCB- Ty -RCB- Cobbs in the hobby , and awhile back there were Babe Ruth checks , '' says Mr. Smalling . 
`` Maybe I 'm a little stuffy , but I would n't sell them , '' sniffs Bob Machon , owner of Papa 's Sports Cards in Menlo Park , Calif . 
`` Who knows how much they 'll be worth 100 years from now ? '' 
`` I do n't think the checks are worth $ 15 apiece , '' he says . 
He probably has n't done it for the cash . 
`` He has good investments . '' 
`` I do n't think he 'd want to give out his current account numbers . 
Bethlehem Steel Corp. , LTV Corp. and Armco Inc. all have plans to build additional lines for such coated corrosion-resistant steel . 
They note that most of the new plants will come on line in 1992 , when the current import trade restraint program ends , which could result in more imports . 
`` I do n't think there 's anyone not building one . '' 
That trend could increase demand for hot-dipped galvanized sheet . 
You just call your broker and say `` buy '' or `` sell . '' 
There are all sorts of ways to give buy and sell instructions to a broker -- and just as many ways to get burned if you do n't know what you 're doing . 
Two things to keep in mind : Not all exchanges accept every type of order . 
: Not all exchanges accept every type of order . 
It 's like saying , `` get me in now '' or `` get me out now . '' 
A recent indictment alleges that some floor brokers at the two largest Chicago commodity exchanges used market orders to fill customers ' orders at unfavorable prices by arranging trades with fellow brokers . 
Suppose an investor wants to sell a stock , but not for less than $ 55 . 
A limit order to sell could be entered at that price . 
One risk : Investors may regret the restriction if the stock reaches 54 and then falls . 
Once the price reaches that level , a stop order turns into a market order , and the order is filled at whatever price the broker can get . 
Stop orders are sometimes called `` stop-loss '' orders because they are frequently used to protect profits or limit losses . 
While stop orders sound similar to limit orders , there is a difference : Sell stops must be entered at a price below the current market price and buy stops above . In contrast , sell limit orders must be placed above the market price and buy limit orders are placed below . 
An investor who may have placed a stop-loss order at $ 90 under a stock that was trading at $ 100 a share on the Friday before the crash was stunned to discover that the order was filled at $ 75 when the stock opened at that price on Monday . 
Unlike stop orders -- which are filled at the market price when the stop price is hit -- stop-limit orders demand that the trades be made only at the specified price . 
If it ca n't be made at that price , it does n't get filled . 
As soon as the market trades at the specified price the floor broker will fill it at the best possible price . 
It instructs a broker to buy or sell an investment at the specified price or better . 
`` I like to use them to feel out the market , '' he says . 
`` If they do n't fill it immediately , then I can start over at a new price or try again with the same price . '' 
It is a market order that allows floor brokers to take more time to buy or sell an investment , if they think they can get a better price by waiting . 
In a fast-moving market , it prevents an investor from getting stuck with having made two trades on the same security . 
`` On the close '' can be added to many types of orders . 
`` Day orders '' expire at the end of the day on which they are entered , `` good-till-canceled orders '' have no expiration date . 
They found they had bought stock from limit orders that they might have entered weeks or months earlier and had forgotten to cancel . 
Investors who change their mind about buying or selling after an order has been filled are , usually , stuck with the consequences . 
For any given move in the overall market , it suggests how steeply that particular issue might rise or fall . 
Go with high-beta stocks to get the biggest payoff from a bet on a bull market . 
`` Beta is only part of the risk in a stock , '' says William F. Sharpe , the Stanford University emeritus professor who developed the measure . 
`` There is risk that is not associated with market moves , and the beta does n't tell you the magnitude of that . '' 
That `` business '' risk is very significant for an investor with only a few stocks , but it virtually disappears in a large and well-diversified portfolio . 
`` In reality it 's very volatile , but the movements are not because of market movements . 
Risk wears many disguises , and investments that are low in one type of obvious risk can be distressingly high in other , less obvious kinds . 
They try to figure out the long-term results the person needs to meet major goals . 
That largely reflects the heavy stockholdings . 
: Investors do n't know the actual returns that securities will deliver , or the ups and downs that will occur along the way . 
He correctly says he has been down on Noriega for some time , hence his criticism of administration mishandling of the attempted coup . 
It meant to convey our hope that the Senator and other members of the congressional left are broadening their dislike of Noriega to include other notorious Central American drug runners . 
In his letter and on the basis of his losing vote Tuesday against U.S. aid for the Nicaraguan opposition , Senator Kerry makes clear he has not made that intellectual leap . 
We were wrong . 
Capital has been democratized , and people want in . 
Like all Americans seeking chronic prosperity , I do find it necessary to plunge certain funds into conservative monetary tools , if only to assuage my father-in-law , who believes in such things . 
Return on this fine portfolio has been modest when it has not been negative . 
Oil-related properties suffered a huge decline until I divested myself of all such stocks in 1985 , at which point the industry , while not lighting up any Christmas trees , began a slow recovery . 
By 1987 , these properties were in a tailspin , causing my broker at Pru-Bache to remark that she 'd `` never seen anything like it . '' 
Concerned for her state of mind , I dropped them -- and the market instantly began its steady climb back to health . 
Perhaps most dramatic was the performance of the metropolitan New York real-estate market , which was booming until I entered it in late 1988 , at which time it posted the first negative compound annual growth rate in years . 
Bank it ? 
All have paid off for me in double-digit annual growth and continue to provide significant potential . 
According to my calculations , these outlays should have brought the value of my sedan to more than $ 22,000 on the open market -LRB- Figure 6 -RRB- , where I plan to offer it shortly . 
My initial stake in this blooming enterprise has grown tenfold , according to my conservative calculations . 
My kids ' college education looms as perhaps the greatest future opportunity for spending , although I 'll probably have to cash in their toy portfolio to take advantage of it . 
You 're right there in the mainstream of American business , building value on the back of insupportable expenditures . 
`` He told me to choose an area where just by being mediocre I could be great , '' recalls Mr. Schwartz , now 40 . 
He tried management consulting , traded in turquoise for a while , and even managed professional wrestlers . 
Now he has settled into a career that fits the bill -- financial planning . 
Though it 's probably safe to assume that the majority of financial planners are honest and even reasonably competent , the fact remains that , as one wag puts it , `` anybody who can fog a mirror '' can call himself a financial planner . 
There is no effective regulation of planners , no accepted standard for admission into their ranks -- a dog got into one trade group -- no way to assess their performance , no way even to know how many of them there are -LRB- estimates range from 60,000 to 450,000 -RRB- . 
All anyone need do is hang up a shingle and start planning . 
Alarmed , state and federal authorities are trying to devise ways to certify and regulate planners . 
Industry groups and reputable planners who are members of them want comprehensive standards , too ; they 're tired of seeing practitioners depicted collectively in the business press as dumber than chimpanzees and greedier than a herd of swine . 
; they 're tired of seeing practitioners depicted collectively in the business press as dumber than chimpanzees and greedier than a herd of swine . 
`` The industry is still pretty much in its Wild West days , '' says Scott Stapf , director of investor education for the North American Securities Administrators Association . 
The rogues ' gallery of planners involved includes some convicted felons , a compulsive gambler or two , various businessmen who had planned their own previous ventures right into bankruptcy , and one man who scammed his wife 's grandmother . 
What 's more , the losses they and the others caused `` are just what we are stumbling over , '' says Mr. Stapf , adding that the majority of misdeeds probably go undetected . 
Nobody can estimate the toll , but John Gargan , a Tampa , Fla. , planner and head of one trade group , the International Association of Registered Financial Planners , thinks the danger to investors from incompetence is `` humongous , '' far greater than that from crookery . 
His group , like others , wants minimum standards applied to all who call themselves financial planners . 
For most investors `` the benefits just are n't worth the risks , '' says Barbara Roper , who follows financial-planning issues for the Consumer Federation of America , a consumer-advocacy organization based in Washington . 
She says her group used to give tips on selecting planners -- check educational and experience credentials , consult regulators and Better Business Bureaus -- but found that even some people who took these steps `` were still getting ripped off . '' 
The Tax Reform Act of 1986 , which eliminated many tax shelters peddled by planners , and the stock market crash the next year did cause a sharp slump in such demand , and many planners had to make an unplanned exit from the business . 
A survey of 54,000 of them conducted by the IAFP in April showed that these practitioners alone had controlled or guided the investment of $ 154 billion of their clients ' money in the previous 12 months . 
Even the minority of them who must register with the Securities and Exchange Commission as `` investment advisers '' -- people who are in the business of counseling others on the buying and selling of securities specifically -- have been enough to swamp the agency 's capacity . 
The SEC has only about 200 staffers assigned to keep tabs on investment advisers -- about the same as in 1980 -- even though the number of advisers has tripled to about 15,000 over the past decade . 
Currently , a registered investment adviser can expect an SEC audit only once every 12 years . 
A lot of bad things can happen in 12 years . 
`` It does n't take a rocket scientist to figure out our problem , '' says Kathryn McGrath , director of the SEC 's division of investment management . 
Such an organization could , among other things , set minimum standards for competence , ethics and finances and punish those investment advisers who broke the rules . 
Mr. Schwartz , the puckish planner from Englewood , Colo. , says that allowing the business to police itself would be `` like putting Dracula in charge of the blood bank . '' 
Mr. Gargan , the Tampa planner who heads one trade group , favors simply assessing the industry and giving the money to the SEC to hire more staff . 
When the IAFP recently assembled other industry groups to discuss common standards that might be applied to planners , Mr. Gargan 's group was excluded . 
That may be because Mr. Gargan , smarting at what he considered slurs on his membership standards made by the rival group , enrolled his dog , Beauregard , as a member of the IAFP . 
NASAA , the organization of state securities regulators , is pushing for a model regulatory statute already adopted in eight states . 
It requires financial planners to register with states , pass competency tests and reveal to customers any conflicts of interest . 
NASAA estimates that nearly 90 % of planners receive some or all of their income from sales commissions on securities , insurance and other financial products they recommend . 
The issue : Is the planner putting his clients into the best investments , or the ones that garner the biggest commissions ? 
In its notice of action , the attorney general said the company had promised to put clients into `` balanced '' investment portfolios ; instead , the attorney general alleged , the company consistently shoved unwary customers into high-risk investments in paintings , coins and Florida condos . 
Those investments paid big commissions to First Meridian , payments investors were never told about , the attorney general alleged . 
In practice , the attorney general alleged in an affidavit , if an investor had access to cash `` the chances of being turned down by First Meridian were about as probable as being rejected by the Book-of-the-Month Club . '' 
First Meridian and its officials are currently under investigation for possible criminal wrongdoing , according to a spokeswoman for the attorney general . 
As for Mr. Sala 's qualifications , `` the snooty attorneys for the state of New York decided Mr. Sala was n't qualified because he did n't have a Harvard degree , '' says Mr. Manion . 
Two such actions , both filed earlier this year in Georgia state court in Atlanta , could be particularly embarrassing to the industry : both name J. Chandler Peterson , an Atlanta financial planner who is a founder and past chairman of the IAFP , as defendant . 
: both name J. Chandler Peterson , an Atlanta financial planner who is a founder and past chairman of the IAFP , as defendant . 
Mr. Peterson took the plaintiffs ' and other investors ' money to a meeting of the bank 's directors . 
`` He said he wanted to show the color of his money , '' recalls Mr. Diebel . 
According to the suit , Mr. Peterson has yet to return the plaintiffs ' investment . 
They want it back . 
Mr. Peterson declines to comment on specific allegations in the two suits , saying he prefers to save such responses for court . 
The suit , he adds , `` is almost in the nature of a vendetta by a handful of disgruntled people . '' 
He declines to go into specifics . 
`` I do n't know anybody in the industry who has n't experienced litigation , '' he says . 
He now calls himself an `` investment banker . '' 
Using it , would n't a proessional hesitate to pay tens of thousands of dollars just for a chance to invest witha planner ? 
Now they 're losers and he 's in jail in Mobile County . 
You already know the answer . 
They stroll through the marble-encased corridors of the Atrium Court . 
They graze at the Farmers Market , a combination gourmet food court and grocery store , while a pianist accompanies the noon fashion show with a selection of dreamy melodies . 
`` The beautiful look of wool , '' croons the show 's narrator , `` slightly Victorian in its influence ... . '' 
Law-enforcement authorities say that at any given time , a host of fraudulent telemarketing operations mingle with the many legitimate businesses here . 
`` They seem to like these industrial parks , '' says Kacy McClelland , a postal inspector who specializes in mail fraud . 
You do n't hear much about unusual concentrations of fraud in Green Bay or Buffalo . 
Con men hate snow . 
What more could a con man in search of the easy life ask for ? 
The breezes are soft , the waves lap gently and the palm trees sway lazily . 
Nightlife is plentiful . 
The median price of homes is $ 547,000 ; more than 9,000 vessels fill what the chamber of commerce calls the nation 's largest pleasure-boat harbor . 
; more than 9,000 vessels fill what the chamber of commerce calls the nation 's largest pleasure-boat harbor . 
`` One reason they use Newport Beach is that it sounds swankier than most addresses , '' says David Katz , a U.S. attorney who , until recently , headed a multi-agency Southern California fraud task force . 
`` Newport Beach is known in Rhode Island for having a lot of rich people . '' 
`` I 've heard that there is $ 40 billion taken in nationwide by boiler rooms every year , '' Mr. McClelland says . 
That contrasts with the penny-ante sales of things such as pen-and-pencil sets and office supplies that are known as `` Hollywood '' scams . 
The investors range from elderly widows to affluent professionals . 
Thus falsely reassured , investors sent $ 11.4 million to the Newport Beach company , most of which was diverted to unauthorized uses , the indictment charges . 
`` There were some business deals that went bad , '' Mr. Jones says , `` but no intent to defraud . '' 
Newport Beach operations differ from the Hollywood boiler rooms in style as well as in dollars . 
Traditionally , boiler rooms operate on the cheap , since few , if any , customers ever visit their offices . 
When we go there , it 's quite different from these Hollywood places where the sandwiches are spread out on the table and the people are picking their noses . '' 
Investigators cite the case of Matthew Valentine , who is currently serving a six-year sentence at Lompoc Federal Prison for his role in Intech Investment Corp. , which promised investors returns of as much as 625 % on precious metals . 
Mr. Valentine , who pleaded guilty to five counts of fraud in federal court in Los Angeles , drove a leased Mercedes and lived in an expensive home on Lido Isle , an island in Newport 's harbor , according to investigators . 
With the $ 3 million received from investors , he took frequent junkets with friends to exotic locales and leased an expensive BMW for his girlfriend , whom he met at the shop where he got his custom-tailored suits . 
`` It 's amazing the amount of money that goes up their nose , out to the dog track or to the tables in Las Vegas , '' Mr. Katz says . 
Vincent M Ciavarella , regional manager of Property Management Systems , insists he does n't know of any bogus telemarketers operating in the 1.6 million square feet of office space around Fashion Island that his company leases for Irvine Co. , the owner and developer of the project . 
Mr. Ciavarella has rejected a few prospective tenants who provided `` incomplete '' financial information and acknowledges that illegitimate operators `` are not easily detectable . 
'' -LRB- Investigators stress that building owners are victims , too , since boiler rooms often leave without paying rent . -RRB- 
Actually , `` we do n't get much negative publicity about this , '' he insists , `` except for the press who write about it . '' 
Now you discover that you never learned the most important lesson : How to send your kids to college . 
Stick some money in an interest-bearing account and watch it grow . 
Now , investment salesmen say it 's time to take some risks if you want the kind of returns that will buy your toddler a ticket to Prestige U. in 18 years . 
Tuitions at private colleges rose 154 % in the 10 years ended in June of this year ; that 's twice the 77 % increase in consumer prices for the same period . 
; that 's twice the 77 % increase in consumer prices for the same period . 
By 2007 , when this year 's newborns hit campus , a four-year Ivy League sheepskin will cost $ 300,000 , give or take a few pizzas-with-everything at exam time . 
Stanford , MIT and other utmosts will cost no less . 
Others prefer deep-discount zero-coupon bonds . 
Still others say , Why not take a chance on a high-octane growth fund ? 
To get the necessary growth , adds Murray Ruffel , a marketing official at the Financial Programs mutual-fund group , `` you need to go to the stock market . '' 
That 's the dilemma for today 's parent . 
The antitrust division of the Justice Department is investigating the oddly similar tuition charges and increases among the top schools . 
Fear of the price police could help cool things off in the 1990s . 
Forget about Treasury bills or a money-market fund . 
Several outfits -- including the Financial Programs , Franklin , and T. Rowe Price mutual-fund groups and the Edward D. Jones brokerage house -- are advertising `` college planner '' tables and charts that tell you how much you need to put aside regularly . 
To build a nest egg that would pay for Stanford when a current first-grader reaches college age , parents would need to set aside $ 773.94 a month -- for 12 years . 
They can cut this to $ 691.09 a month if the investing keeps up through college . 
Using a recent average private-school cost of about $ 12,500 a year , T. Rowe Price 's planner prescribes $ 450 monthly if the plan begins when the child is six . 
Since the formula assumes an 8 % before-tax return in a mutual fund , there would also be $ 16,500 in taxes to pay over the 12 years . 
`` People are basically peddling a lot of fear , '' says Arthur Hauptman , a consultant to the American Council on Education in Washington . 
He takes issue with projections that do n't factor in students ' own contribution , which reduces most parents ' burden substantially . 
`` The situation you want to avoid is having somebody not save anything and hope they 'll be able to do it out of current income , '' he says . 
`` That 's crazy . '' 
Parents , he says , should aim at whatever regular investment sum they can afford . 
Half the amount that the investment tables suggest might be a good goal , he adds . 
That way , parents will reduce borrowings and outlays from current income when the time comes to pay tuition . 
He favors either an all-stock fund or a balanced fund that mixes both stocks and bonds . 
They have laid out about $ 1 billion for so-called baccalaureate zero-coupon municipal bonds -- so far offered by Connecticut , Illinois , Virginia and eight other states . 
Like other zeros , they pay all their interest at maturity , meaning that buyers can time things so that their bonds pay off just when Junior graduates from high school . 
In June , Virginia sold bonds for $ 268.98 that will pay $ 1,000 in 2009 . 
Their price falls further than that of other bonds when inflation and interest rates kick up . 
That wo n't matter if they are held to maturity , but if , for any reason , the parents need to sell them before then , there could be a severe loss of principal . 
Two private groups are seeking Securities and Exchange Commission approval for plans that could be more broadly transferable . 
Prepayments , much like mutual-fund purchases , are pooled for investment . 
Sponsors are naturally counting on their ability to keep ahead of tuition inflation with investment returns . 
The colleges , as educational institutions , had hoped that would n't be the case . 
`` I 'm not sure they 're going to make it work , '' says Mr. Anderson . 
Not so Michigan . 
Its plan is set up as an independent agency . 
The state says there 's no worry -- investment returns , combined with fees and the gains from unused plans , will provide all the cash it needs . 
The returns landed in the hands of an Internal Revenue Service criminal investigator , Samuel James Baker . 
Mr. Baker interviewed or wrote to hundreds of catfish farmers , live-haulers and processors throughout the South before coming up with detailed estimates of purchases and sales , in pounds and dollars , by Mr. Tharp and others . 
Confronted with the evidence , Mr. Tharp pleaded guilty to one charge of filing a false return and was fined $ 5,000 and sentenced to 18 months in prison . 
Federal and state tax enforcers develop many group targets for investigation , on the basis of occupation , high income , type of income , or some other characteristic that may signal an opportunity or tendency to hide income or exaggerate deductions . 
Mail-order ministers have been squelched . 
Now , television and radio evangelists are under scrutiny . 
San Franciscans have a much higher incidence of audits than average because more of them score high under that formula , not because IRS agents envy their life styles . 
Deductions of charitable gifts of highly valued art now must be accompanied by appraisals . 
Passport applicants now must give Social Security numbers , enabling the IRS to see whether Americans living abroad are filing required U.S. returns . 
In most cases , the IRS says , these projects are local or regional , rather than national , and arise because auditors in an area detect some pattern of abuse among , say , factory workers claiming that having a multitude of dependents frees them from tax withholding or yacht owners deducting losses from sideline charter businesses . 
It prompted an IRS study that found many sellers were concealing income and treating large amounts of nondeductible travel and other personal expenses as business costs , Mr. Washburn says . 
The study provided criteria for singling out returns of `` potentially noncompliant '' taxpayers who report low income and large expenses from a part-time business . 
For 1984 , they reported gross income of $ 1,647 from Amway sales , offset by expenses totaling $ 16,746 -- including car costs of $ 6,805 and travel and entertainment costs of $ 5,088 . 
The Tax Court did n't believe that the Rubins , who earned $ 65,619 in their regular jobs , treated the sideline as a real business and derived `` merely incidental elements of recreation and other personal pleasure and benefits '' from it . 
In the fiscal nine months ended June 30 , reports Raymond P. Keenan , assistant commissioner for collection , they examined about 13,000 employers , assessed more than $ 67 million in delinquent employment taxes , and reclassified about 56,000 workers as employees instead of self-employed contractors . 
Many workers , especially professionals , want to remain independent to avoid tax withholding and to continue to deduct many expenses that employees ca n't . 
The IRS assessed the clinic $ 350,000 in back payroll taxes . 
It assessed nearly $ 500,000 against a cruise-ship company that carried about 100 deckhands , cooks , bartenders , entertainers and other employees as self-employed independents . 
The state 's tax enforcers have amassed data bases from other New York agencies that license or register professionals and businesses ; from exchange agreements with the IRS , 24 other states , and two Canadian provinces , and even from phonebook Yellow Pages . 
Thus armed for massive matching of documents by computer , they single out high-income groups , looking primarily for people who have n't filed New York income-tax returns . 
Soon to feel the glare of attention are lawyers elsewhere in the state , doctors , dentists , and accountants , says Frederick G. Hicks , director of the tax-department division that develops the computer-matching programs . 
In the early stage of checking people with incomes exceeding $ 500,000 who were filing nonresident returns , it squeezed $ 7.5 million out of a man who was posing as a Florida resident . 
`` We think we can reclaim hundreds of millions of dollars just through the nonresident project , '' Mr. Hicks declares . 
The plan is talking about applicants admitted , not students who enroll . 
Perhaps it does . 
This is a story about suckers . 
Many of us are suckers . 
What makes people blurt out their credit-card numbers to a caller they 've never heard of ? 
`` Once they size them up , then they know what buttons to push . '' 
He used to be a boiler-room salesman , peddling investments in oil and gas wells and rare coins . 
`` We 're all a little greedy . 
Everyone is vulnerable , '' says Charles Harper , associate regional administrator for the Securities and Exchange Commission in Miami . 
`` Other people are making it overnight , and the rest who toil daily do n't want to miss that opportunity when it seems to come along . '' 
People are shooting for a dream . '' 
The owner of the company , Stephen Smith , who has since pleaded guilty to state and federal fraud charges , confided to investors that he had a secret agreement with Amoco Oil Co. and said the location of his wells was confidential , according to a civil suit filed in a Florida state court by the Florida comptroller 's office . 
Neither the Amoco agreement nor the wells existed , the suit alleged . 
In appealing to those with a bit of larceny in their hearts , the fraud artist can insist that a person keep an investment secret -- insulating himself from being discovered and keeping his victim from consulting with others . 
Mr. Blodgett , the boiler-room veteran , believes that for many investors , the get-rich-quick scams carry a longed-for element of excitement . 
`` Once people got into it , I was allowing them to live a dream , '' he says . 
He phoned them with updates on the investment , such as `` funny things that happened at the well that week , '' he says . 
`` You gave them some excitement that they did n't have in their lives . '' 
`` The trappings of success go a long way -- wearing the right clothes , doing the right things , '' says Paul Andreassen , an associate professor of psychology at Harvard . 
Conservative appearances make people think it 's a conservative investment . 
`` People honestly lose money on risky investments that they did n't realize were a crapshoot , '' he says . 
When he visited the company 's office , he says , it had `` all the trappings of legitimacy . '' 
Born-again Christians are the most visible targets of unscrupulous do-gooder investment pitches . 
: The scams promise -- among other things -- to help save the environment , feed starving families and prevent the disappearance of children . 
Scam artists seek out such people -- or try to make sure that their victims isolate themselves . 
William Lynes , a retired engineer from Lockheed Corp. , says he and his wife , Lily , warmed to the investment pitches of a penny-stock peddler from Stuart-James Co. in Atlanta after the broker told them he , too , had once worked with Lockheed . 
He urged them to refer their friends , who also lost money . 
-LRB- Donald Trinen , an attorney for the penny-brokerage firm , denies the fraud allegations and says the Lyneses were fully apprised that they were pursuing a high-risk investment . -RRB- 
`` We 've seen cases where salesmen will affect the accent of the region of the country they are calling . 
Anything to make a sale . '' 
People may be particularly vulnerable to flim-flam pitches when they are in the midst of a major upheaval in their lives . 
`` Sometimes when people are making big changes , retiring from their jobs , moving to a new area , they lose their bearings , '' says Maury Elvekrog , a licensed psychologist who is now an investment adviser and principal in Seger-Elvekrog Inc. , a Birmingham , Mich. , investment-counseling firm . 
`` They may be susceptible to some song and dance if it hits them at the right time . '' 
Almost all of us in comparable circumstances might be victimized in some way , '' says Jerald Jellison , a psychology professor at the University of Southern California in Los Angeles . 
Mr. Cortese , a 33-year-old Delta Air Lines engineer , invested some $ 2,000 in penny stocks through a broker who promised quick returns . 
`` We were saving up to buy a house , and my wife was pregnant , '' says Mr. Cortese . 
`` It was just before the Christmas holidays , and I figured we could use some extra cash . '' 
The investment is worth about $ 130 today . 
`` Maybe the next day or even an hour later , I would n't have done it . '' 
The previous sale was $ 436,000 on Oct. 17 ; the last time prices were that low was November 1985 , when a seat sold for $ 425,000 . 
; the last time prices were that low was November 1985 , when a seat sold for $ 425,000 . 
Prices peaked at $ 1,150,000 in September 1987 . 
At least it has a little dash . 
Most of us have to spend our time on pursuits that afford neither , drab duties rather than pleasures . 
Call it the uninformed trudging after the incomprehensible . 
Besides term life and whole life -LRB- the old standbys -RRB- , we now have universal life , universal variable life , flexible adjustable universal life , policies with persistency bonuses , policies festooned with exotic riders , living benefit policies , and on and on . 
What to do ? 
Shorn of all their riders , special provisions , and other bells and whistles , insurance policies can still be grouped under two broad categories : so-called pure insurance , which amasses no cash value in the policy and pays off only upon death , and permanent insurance , which provides not only a death benefit but also a cash value in the policy that can be used in various ways while the insured is still alive . 
It 's much cheaper than permanent insurance bought at the same age . 
; the policy is written for a specific time period only and must be renewed when it expires . 
; if you flunk -- which means you need insurance more than ever -- you may not be able to buy it . 
Even if you 're healthy and can renew , your premium will go up sharply because you 're that much older . 
Sounds great -- or does it ? 
; Amex , not I , would get the benefit of the investment income on my money , income that would have exceeded the inflation rate and thus given the company a real profit . 
; I 'd be paying so heavily just to have the option of getting my premiums back that I 'd almost have to cancel to make the whole thing worthwhile . 
That would be all right with Amex , which could then lock in its investment profit , but it does n't add up to a `` smart money '' move for me . 
: There is no free lunch , there is only marketing . 
The word `` death '' can not be escaped entirely by the industry , but salesmen dodge it wherever possible or cloak it in euphemisms , preferring to talk about `` savings '' and `` investment '' instead . 
The implication is that your permanent-insurance policy is really some kind of CD or mutual-fund account with an added feature . 
The fact is that as a savings or investment vehicle , insurance generally runs a poor second to any direct investment you might make in the same things the insurance company is putting your money into . 
That 's because you have to pay for the insurance portion of the policy and the effort required to sell and service the whole package . 
Again , no free lunch . 
; investment returns on most policies are actually negative for several years , largely because of this . 
You pay a set premium for a set amount of coverage , the company invests that premium in a portfolio of its choosing , and your cash value and dividends grow over the years . 
; the insured could extract cash value in the form of policy `` loans , '' and none of the proceeds were taxable even though they included gains on investment . 
Hugely popular , it is far more flexible than straight whole life . 
I can adjust the amount of insurance I want against the amount going into investment ; I can pay more or less than the so-called target premium in a given year ; and I can even skip payments if my cash reserves are enough to cover the insurance portion of the policy . 
; I can pay more or less than the so-called target premium in a given year ; and I can even skip payments if my cash reserves are enough to cover the insurance portion of the policy . 
These are not certain , either . 
I call her agent , David Dominici . 
If interest rates plunge , the insurer may be knocking on my door , asking for steeper premium payments to maintain the same amount of protection . 
Offered by insurers that include Security-Connecticut Life Insurance Co. , Jackson National Life Insurance Co. , and National Travelers Life Insurance Co. , these policy riders let me tap a portion of my death benefits while I 'm still alive . 
Some provisions would let me collect a percentage of the policy 's face value to pay for long-term care such as nursing-home stays ; others would allow payments for catastrophic illnesses and conditions such as cancer , heart attarcks , renal failure and kidney transplants . 
; others would allow payments for catastrophic illnesses and conditions such as cancer , heart attarcks , renal failure and kidney transplants . 
; there is still a load -- annual administrative fees and initial `` setup '' charges -- but I figure that the lack of commission and of `` surrender fees '' for dropping the policy early still saves me a lot . 
After one year I could walk away from the Ameritas policy with $ 792 , but Id get only $ 14 from the Equitable . 
The difference is magnified by time , too . 
At age 65 , when I 'd stop paying premiums , the Ameritas offering would have a projected cash value $ 14,000 higher than the other , even though the Equitable 's policy illustration assumed a fractionally higher interest rate . 
I 'm thinking about using the $ 871 annual premium to finance a trip to Paris first . 
A person can do some heavy thinking about insurance there -- and shop for something more exciting while she 's doing it . 
Through the first six months of 1989 , sales had grown about 12 % from the year-earlier period . 
Asilone , an antacid , was sold to Boots PLC , London . 
Thrombinar , a drug used to stanch bleeding , was sold to Jones Medical Industries Inc. , St. Louis . 
Rorer in July had projected lower third-quarter operating profit but higher profit for all of 1989 . 
He said the company is still looking for `` a strong fourth quarter in all areas -- sales , operating income and net income . '' 
He said Rorer opted to sell Asilone and Thrombinar to raise revenue that would `` kick start '' its increased marketing efforts behind Maalox , still its top-selling product with about $ 215 million in world-wide sales in 1988 . 
`` We had underfunded Maalox for a year , '' he said , because the company was concentrating on research and development and promoting other drugs . 
A `` big chunk '' of that additional spending came in the third quarter , he said . 
Stocks rallied on good earnings reports and on data that showed less inflation than expected . 
The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 39.55 points to 2683.20 . 
The 30 industrials led the market higher from the opening bell as foreign buyers stepped in . 
By afternoon , the broader market joined the advance in full strength . 
Standard & Poor 's 500-stock Index rose 5.37 to 347.13 and the Nasdaq composite index jumped 7.52 to 470.80 . 
New York Stock Exchange volume swelled to 198,120,000 shares . 
The consumer price index rose 0.2 % in September , while many economists were looking for a 0.4 % increase . 
Stock-index arbitrage buy programs -- in which traders buy stock against offsetting positions in futures to lock in price differences -- helped the rally 's momentum . 
Institutional buyers were the main force pushing blue chips higher . 
Last Friday , takeover traders spilled out of Hilton , knocking the stock down 21 1\/2 to 85 . 
Among other stocks involved in restructurings or rumored to be so : Holiday Corp. gained 1 7\/8 to 73 and Honeywell rose 2 7\/8 to 81 1\/2 . 
The announcement of the buy-out 's troubles triggered the market 's nose dive a week ago . 
`` That 's put some oomph back into this market , '' said Peter VandenBerg , a vice president of equity trading at Shearson Lehman Hutton . 
`` There is no strength behind this rally , '' asserted Chung Lew , head trader at Kleinwort Benson North America . 
`` It 's traders squaring positions . 
It 's not good ; the market is setting up for another fall . '' 
; the market is setting up for another fall . '' 
Outstanding contracts are those that remain to be liquidated . 
`` There has been a tremendous increase '' in MMI positions , Mr. Selkin said . 
Philip Morris added 1 1\/8 to 44 1\/2 in Big Board composite trading of 3.7 million shares , Coca-Cola Co. gained 2 3\/8 to 70 3\/8 , Merck gained 1 3\/8 to 77 3\/8 and American Telephone & Telegraph advanced 7\/8 to 43 3\/8 on 2.5 million shares . 
Chemical and six other banks , along with First Boston , are providing the rest of the $ 1.6 billion . 
The Delaware Supreme Court affirmed a ruling that barred Chris-Craft Industries from voting its Warner preferred stock as a separate class in deciding on the companies ' proposed merger . 
Among other actual and rumored targets , Woolworth rose 1 1\/4 to 60 1\/2 , Upjohn went up 1 1\/8 to 39 3\/4 , Armstrong World Industries gained 1 to 40 1\/8 and Kollmorgen rose 3\/4 to 13 7\/8 . 
Digital Equipment gained 1 3\/8 to 89 3\/4 despite reporting earnings for the September quarter that were on the low end of expectations . 
American International Group climbed 4 to 106 5\/8 , General Re rose 3 1\/8 to 89 5\/8 , Kemper added 2 1\/2 to 48 , AON went up 1 3\/8 to 36 and Chubb rose 1 1\/4 to 82 1\/4 . 
Mattel added 1 1\/4 to 19 5\/8 , Tonka firmed 1 to 18 1\/2 and Lewis Galoob Toys rose 7\/8 to 13 5\/8 on the Big Board , while Hasbro gained 1 to 21 7\/8 on the American Stock Exchange . 
Kidder Peabody raised its investment rating on the stock and its earnings estimates for 1989 and 1990 , based on optimism that the company 's ABC television network will continue to fare well in the ratings . 
Merrill Lynch lowered its short-term rating on the stock and its estimate of 1990 earnings , citing a sales slowdown in the company 's credit-rating business . 
Volume totaled 14,580,000 shares . 
The company received shareholder approval for its restructuring plan , designed to fend off a hostile takeover bid from a group headed by financier Sir James Goldsmith . 
Mr. Bush said he would allow the bill to become law without his signature , because he said only a constitutional amendment can protect the flag adequately . 
You 're probably right , and you are n't alone . 
The stress study was undertaken because problems related to stress `` are much more prevalent than they seem , '' said Leon J. Warshaw , executive director of the business group . 
Occupational disability related to anxiety , depression and stress costs about $ 8,000 a case in terms of worker 's compensation . 
In terms of days lost on the job , the study estimated that each affected employee loses about 16 work days a year because of stress , anxiety or depression . 
Early intervention into these types of problems can apparently save businesses long-term expense associated with hospitalization , which sometimes results when these problems go untreated for too long . 
More than eight in 10 respondents reported such a stress-provoking situation in their company . 
Mid-sized companies were most affected by talk of layoffs or plant closings . 
Alcohol and substance abuse as a result of stress-related problems was cited by 30 % of those polled . 
The problem , says Mr. D'Arcy , a psychologist , is that `` it 's very hard to get any hard measures on how stress affects job performance . 
This week , many carriers are announcing cut-rate fares designed to get people to fly on some of the most hallowed -- and slowest -- days of the year , including Christmas . 
That approach flopped : Last Christmas Day , a USAir Group Inc. DC-9 jetliner flew about seven passengers from Chicago to Pittsburgh . 
: Last Christmas Day , a USAir Group Inc. DC-9 jetliner flew about seven passengers from Chicago to Pittsburgh . 
They are cutting ticket prices by as much as 70 % from normal levels for travel to most U.S. locations on Dec. 24 , 25 , 29 , 30 and 31 , and Jan. 4 , 5 and 6 . 
The promotions -- dubbed everything from 'T- is the Season to be Jolly to Kringle fares -- put round-trip fares at $ 98 , $ 148 and $ 198 . 
The Continental catch : Only immediate family members are allowed , and they must have the same last name as the buyer of the ticket or legal proof they 're related . 
`` What a bunch of nonsense , '' says Jessica Crosby , president of the New York chapter of the National Association of Women Business Owners . 
`` This sets things way back . '' 
`` We accommodate their choice of names by allowing them to demonstrate '' family affiliation with legal documents , says Jim O'Donnell , a senior vice president . 
The Lambda Legal Defense and Education Fund of New York City has received complaints from homosexual couples whom the airline does n't recognize as family . 
The fares are code-named Hugo , Compassion and Virgin Islands Aid . 
In Myrtle Beach , S.C. , the damaged Yachtsman Resort offers daily rates as low as $ 35 , or as much as 22 % below regular prices . 
This year , the older someone is the bigger the discount . 
Travelers up to age 99 get a percentage discount matching their age . 
There 's even a special fare for clergy that does n't require the usual stay over Saturday night . 
That way , they can be home in time for work Sunday . 
Repeal would generate more in new taxes than the government would lose in increased Social Security benefit payments . 
Now his half-dozen employees work in an eighth-floor shop that he says is smaller than his old storage room . 
He blames imports . 
He credits imports . 
One stuck to old-line business traditions , while the other embraced the change . 
`` We make the finest product in the world , and the Americans are being kicked around . '' 
`` You 've got some minds here that wo n't think progressively , '' he says . 
Merchants discovered a consumer largely ignored by higher-priced furriers : the younger woman -- even in her late 20s -- who never thought she could buy a mink . 
The new market helped boost U.S. fur sales to about $ 1.8 billion a year now , triple the level in the late 1970s . 
Jindo Furs , a large South Korean maker , says it operates 35 retail outlets in the U.S. and plans to open 15 more by the end of next year . 
Mr. Purnick and other old-line furriers call many of the the imports unstylish and poorly made . 
High-end U.S. furriers say these imports have n't squeezed them . 
A woman who once would have saved for two or three seasons to buy a U.S.-made mink can now get an imported mink right away for less than $ 2,000 . 
Early in the decade he saw that fur workers in many foreign countries were willing to work longer hours at lower wages than their American counterparts and were more open to innovation . 
In 1982 , he started a factory in Greece . 
Two years later , he opened one in West Germany . 
By combining his strengths in innovation and quality control with the lower costs of production abroad , he says he has been able to produce high-quality goods at low cost . 
To maintain control over production and avoid overdependence on foreign sources , he says he still makes most of his furs in the U.S. . 
This year he produced a men 's line and offers dyed furs in red , cherry red , violet , royal blue and forest green . 
He has leather jackets from Turkey that are lined with eel skin and topped off with raccoon-skin collars . 
From Asia , he has mink jackets with floral patterns made by using different colored furs . 
Next he will be testing pictured embroidery -LRB- called kalega -RRB- made in the Far East . 
Seymour Schreibman , the 65-year-old owner of Schreibman Raphael Furs Inc. , treats the reverse side of a Persian lambskin to produce a reversible fur-and-leather garment . 
He says it accounts for 25 % of total sales . 
This year he bought two stores , one in Brooklyn and one in Queens . 
Other furriers have also placed more weight on retailing . 
Since then he has expanded his fleet and can now bring his furs to the front door of retailers as far away as the Midwest . 
Small retailers who ca n't afford to travel to his New York showroom have become fair game . 
Large furriers such as Antonovich Inc. , Fur Vault Inc. and Evans Inc. all reported losses in their latest fiscal years . 
Aftereffects of the 1987 stock market crash head the list of reasons . 
The animal-rights movement has n't helped sales . 
Warm winters over the past two years have trimmed demand , too , furriers complain . 
`` The intensive labor needed to manufacture furs -LCB- in the U.S. . -RCB- is not as available as it was , '' says Mr. Schreibman , who is starting overseas production . 
`` People are promoting furs in various ways and taking the glamour out of the fur business , '' says Stephen Sanders , divisional merchandise manager for Marshall Field 's department store in Chicago . 
He contends that chasing consumers with low-priced imports will harm the industry in the long run by reducing the prestige of furs . 
The name of the game is to move goods . 
It is the right-wing guerrillas who are aligned with the drug traffickers , not the left wing . 
This information was gleaned from your own news stories on the region . 
: Lend computer equipment to replace that damaged at El Espectador , buy ad space , publish stories under the bylines of El Espectador journalists . 
Perhaps an arrangement could be worked out to `` sponsor '' El Espectador journalists and staff by paying for added security in exchange for exclusive stories . 
Reward El Espectador 's courage with real support . 
; he was assistant vice president at the company . 
Two weeks after boosting base rates to 15 % , he pledged that `` rates will have to remain high for some time to come . '' 
A sinking pound makes imports more expensive and increases businesses ' expectations of future inflation , he argued . 
In an apparent warning to currency traders who have lately been selling the British currency , he stated that the exchange rates will have a `` major role in the assessment of monetary conditions . '' 
He said he monitors the money-supply figures , but does n't give them paramount importance , as some private and government economists have suggested . 
Two weeks ago , in a campaign to blunt inflation at home and arrest a world-wide plunge in the pound , he raised base rates a full percentage point to 15 % . 
Despite the increase , the British currency slid below a perceived threshold of three marks early last week . 
It was quoted at 2.9428 marks in late New York trading Wednesday . 
Unemployment in September dropped to 1,695,000 , the lowest level since 1980 . 
While lower joblessness is generally good news , the hefty drop last month indicates that the economy is n't slowing down as much as hoped -- despite a doubling of interest rates over the last 16 months . 
He added that `` there 's no quick-fix solution '' to the economic woes , and said `` tight monetary policy is the right approach . '' 
Although the New York market plunge prompted a 70.5-point drop in the London Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100 Share Index , Mr. Leigh-Pemberton declared `` that the experience owed nothing to the particular problems of the British economy . '' 
`` What this means is that Europeans will have these machines in their offices before Americans do , '' the spokesman said . 
Executives at Olivetti , whose earnings have been steadily sliding over the past couple of years , have acknowledged that in the past they have lagged at getting new technology to market . 
`` We think the worst is over '' in the European information-technology market , she said . 
`` It 's the missing link '' in Olivetti 's product line between small personal computers and higher-priced minicomputers , the Olivetti spokesman said . 
He added that Olivetti will continue making its LSX minicomputer line . 
Ferembal has 930 workers at four canning manufacturing plants and one plastic container facility . 
As mandated by law , the tax rate will rise to 7.65 % in 1990 from 7.51 % and wo n't rise any further in the future . 
This means that the maximum yearly Social Security tax paid by workers and employers each will rise $ 250.80 next year to $ 3,855.60 . 
The exempt amount for beneficiaries under 65 will rise to $ 6,840 from $ 6,480 . 
To offset sluggish sales growth , companies have been cutting staff , mostly through attrition , and slowing the growth in research and development spending . 
In some cases , competition has squeezed margins . 
The Franklin Lakes , N.J. , company is expected to report sales growth of only 5 % to 6 % , but should still maintain earnings growth of 10 % , says Jerry E. Fuller , an analyst with Duff & Phelps Inc . 
Sales for the company , based in Abbott Park , Ill. , rose 8.3 % to $ 1.31 billion from $ 1.21 billion . 
Sales for the Deerfield , Ill. , company rose 5.8 % to $ 1.81 billion from $ 1.71 billion . 
C.R. Bard Inc. yesterday said third-quarter net plunged 51 % to $ 9.9 million , or 18 cents a share , from $ 20 million , or 35 cents a share , a year earlier . 
Sales fell 1.2 % to $ 190.1 million from $ 192.5 million . 
The Murray Hill , N.J. , company said full-year earnings may be off 33 cents a share because the company removed a catheter from the market . 
`` As that wanes , you 're going to see the stocks probably wane as well , '' he says . 
Most important , hospital admission rates are stabilizing after several years of decline . 
Revenue rose 6.4 % to $ 3.13 billion from $ 2.94 billion . 
Digital hopes to address that with the debut of its first mainframe-class computers next Tuesday . 
The new line is aimed directly at International Business Machines Corp . 
Some cut their earnings estimates for the stock this year and predicted more efforts to control costs ahead . 
`` Margins will remain under pressure , and when the new mainframe does ship , I 'm not sure it will be a big winner . 
'' Mr. Milunovich said he was revising his estimate for DEC 's current year from $ 8.20 a share to `` well below $ 8 , '' although he has n't settled on a final number . 
DEC said its overseas business , which now accounts for more than half of sales , improved in the quarter . 
It even took the unusually frank step of telling analysts in a morning conference call that orders in Europe were up in `` double digits '' in foreign-currency terms . 
`` That was a disappointment '' and a sign of overall computer-market softness in Europe , Mr. Stevens said . 
Although overall revenues were stronger , Mr. Schulman said , DEC `` drew down its European backlog '' and had flat world-wide orders overall . 
`` The bottom line is that it 's more hand to mouth than it has been before , '' he said . 
For reasons he would n't elaborate on , he said he 's sure that schedule wo n't be met , meaning less profit impact from the product for DEC in the next few quarters . 
In the year-earlier period , Colgate posted net income of $ 60.2 million , or 88 cents a share . 
Last year 's results included earnings from discontinued operations of $ 13.1 million , or 19 cents a share . 
Mr. Mark attributed the improvement to cost savings achieved by consolidating manufacturing operations , blending together two sales organizations and more carefully focusing the company 's promotional activities . 
`` Improving profitability of U.S. operations is an extremely high priority in the company . '' 
The scope of the improvement in the U.S. business caught some analysts by surprise . 
The company 's domestic business , especially its household products division , has performed poorly for years . 
Analysts say the earnings improvement came from cutting costs rather than increasing sales . 
Sales rose 7 % to $ 3.8 billion . 
Colgate 's 1988 net income included $ 40.1 million , or 59 cents a share , from discontinued operations . 
Colgate sold its hospital supply and home health care business last year . 
The company said it believes the suit is without merit . 
AT&T said that based on studies of other companies that have offered retirement plans , it expects about one-third of its eligible managers to retire under the new program . 
Net income rose to $ 699 million , or 65 cents a share , from the year-earlier $ 587 million , or 55 cents a share . 
Revenue edged up to $ 8.9 billion from $ 8.81 billion . 
Managers who retire Dec. 30 will have an additional 15 % added to their monthly pension for as long as five years or age 65 , whichever comes earlier . 
Analysts hailed the sweetened pension package , which they said had been the subject of rumors for several months . 
`` This tells you AT&T is serious about continuing to manage their cost structure and is committed to 20%-a-year earnings growth , '' said Jack Grubman , an analyst with PaineWebber Inc . 
`` This is a good move , but it only gets you to where people 's expectations already are , '' in terms of earnings growth , said Joel D. Gross , an analyst with Donaldson , Lufkin & Jenrette . 
Mr. Gross said he had hoped that a cost savings of $ 450 million would result in even greater growth than the 20 % annual earnings increase AT&T has told analysts it expects in the future . 
Revenue gained 3.1 % to $ 26.81 billion from $ 26 billion . 
That makes it the most active trader among all the nation 's investment advisers , according to Securities and Exchange Commission filings . 
Westridge Capital is an index fund -- the type of stolid long-term investor whose goal is to be nothing more than average . 
Indexing for the most part has involved simply buying and then holding stocks in the correct mix to mirror a stock market barometer , such as Standard & Poor 's 500-stock index , and match its performance . 
These big investors have flocked to indexing because relatively few `` active '' stock pickers have been able to consistently match the returns of the S&P 500 or other bellwethers , much less beat it . 
That 's because computers do most of the work , and low trading activity keeps a lid on commission costs . 
Because index-fund managers are no longer satisfied with merely being average , they have developed `` enhanced '' indexing strategies that are intended to outperform the market as much as three percentage points . 
`` Now the interest is in what else can I do with that money . '' 
Among the souped-up indexing strategies : Indexed portfolios can be built around thousands of stocks , or just a few dozen , rather than being restricted to the S&P 500 companies . 
They can ignore the S&P 500 stocks altogether and focus on particular types of stocks , such as smaller companies , those paying high dividends or companies in a particular industry , state or country . 
`` There is n't a boatload -LCB- of big investors -RCB- out there still waiting to get into indexing , '' says P. James Kartalia , vice president of ANB Investment Management Co. , Chicago , which offers both indexing and active management services . 
Plain-vanilla funds have become so commonplace that fees they can charge have plunged to almost nothing , and in some cases are just that . 
To land customers for their well-paying stock custodial business , big banks sometimes will throw in basic indexing services for free . 
`` It 's like getting a free toaster when you open an account , '' says Axe Core 's Mr. Lynn . 
The firm sometimes buys S&P 500 futures when they are selling at a discount to the actual stocks , and will switch back and forth between stocks and stock-index futures to take advantages of any momentary price discrepencies . 
`` By their nature , our trades are very short-term and are going to create high turnover , '' Mr. Carder adds . 
`` The more turnover , the better for our clients . '' 
J. Thomas Allen , president of Pittsburgh-based Advanced Investment Management Inc. , agrees it 's a good idea to jump between the S&P 500 stocks and futures . 
`` You 're buying the S&P , and you always want to hold the cheapest form of it , '' he says . 
`` If the futures markets have a problem , then those products could have a problem , '' says John Zumbrunn , managing director of Prudential Insurance Co. of America 's Investment Index Technologies Inc. unit . 
An added feature is that the slighty improved return would be guaranteed by Prudential . 
They include : LIMITED RISK FUNDS : 
These guarantee protection against stock market declines while still passing along most gains . 
Here a fund may promise to pay back , say , $ 95 of every $ 100 invested for a year , even if the market goes much lower . 
That leaves $ 13 , which could be used to buy S&P 500 options that will nearly match any gain in the S&P index . The fund could invest $ 87 for one year in Treasury bills yielding 8 % to return the guaranteed $ 95 . 
That leaves $ 13 , which could be used to buy S&P 500 options that will nearly match any gain in the S&P index . 
Say a big investor is interested in growth stocks . 
; the portfolio will be maintained by computer , reducing both fees and , in theory , risk -LRB- because of the large number of stocks -RRB- . 
`` People comfortable with the passive approach are using them for other strategies . '' 
Instead of replicating the S&P 500 or some other index exactly , some stocks are overweighted or underweighted in the portfolio . 
One simple approach is to exclude S&P 500 companies considered bankruptcy candidates ; this can avoid weak sisters , but also can hurt when a company like Chrysler Corp. rebounds . 
; this can avoid weak sisters , but also can hurt when a company like Chrysler Corp. rebounds . 
Another approach : An investor with $ 100 million might use $ 75 million to buy the S&P 500 index and spend the other $ 25 million on a favorite group of stocks . 
Other funds have been designed to concentrate on stocks in a geographic area in order to encourage local investment . 
Amex short interest climbed 3 % to 53,496,665 shares from 51,911,566 shares . 
The figures occasionally include incomplete transactions in restricted stock . 
Varity has proposed to acquire K-H Corp. , consisting of the auto parts division and some debt of Fruehauf Corp. , for $ 577.3 million of cash and securities . 
Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. , the entity formed from the recent acquisition of Squibb Corp. by Bristol-Myers Co. , logged the largest volume decline , 7,592,988 shares , to 12,017,724 . 
Bolar Pharmaceutical Co. posted the largest volume increase , 552,302 shares , to 2,157,656 . 
The company is under an investigation concerning procedures to gain Food and Drug Administration approval of generic drugs . 
Bolar has denied any wrongdoing . 
Nelson Holdings International Ltd. dropped the most on a percentage basis , to 1,000 shares from 255,923 . 
My position is one founded on both the facts and the law . 
The public made up its mind about Gen. Noriega largely as a result of the hearings I chaired in the Subcommittee on Terrorism and Narcotics of the Foreign Relations Committee on Feb. 8 , 9 , 10 and 11 , 1988 , and again on April 4 , 1988 . 
It was during those hearings that the nation first learned the breadth and depth of Gen. Noriega 's criminality , and of his enduring relationships with a variety of U.S. government agencies . Those hearings also highlighted how Gen. Noriega was able to use his relationships with these agencies to delay U.S. action against him , and to exploit the administration 's obsession with overthrowing the Sandinistas to protect his own drug-dealing . 
As former Ambassador to Costa Rica Francis J. McNeil testified before the subcommittee , the Reagan administration knew that Gen. Noriega was involved with narcotics , but made a decision in the summer of 1986 `` to put Gen. Noriega on the shelf until Nicaragua was settled . '' 
This decision resulted in at least some drugs entering the United States as a hidden cost of the war . '' 
Throughout 1988 and this year , I and others in Congress have pressed the U.S. to develop a plan for pushing this `` narcokleptocrat '' out of Panama . 
Regrettably , two administrations in a row have been unwilling and unable to develop any plan , military or economic , for supporting the Panamanian people in their attempts to restore democracy . 
After years of hesitation , economic and political reform was embraced at the end of 1986 , but ringing declarations have yet to be translated into much action . 
His business success made him an official target in pre-reform days . 
Both products were immensely popular . 
For his troubles , Mr. Chan was jailed three times between 1960 and 1974 . 
Though his operation was registered and used only scrap , he was accused of conducting illegal business and possessing illegal materials . 
Once he was held for three months without being charged . 
By 1982 , he was selling thousands of tires . 
Newspapers published articles about him , and he was hailed as `` the tire king . '' 
His efforts earned a gold medal at a national exhibition -- and attracted renewed attention from local authorities . 
He produced it . 
`` That was the first time they lost and I won , '' he says . 
Says Mr. Chan : `` When I showed it was from my own brain , they lost for the second time . '' 
Warned he was to be jailed again , he fled to the countryside . 
His family was given three hours to leave before the house and contents were confiscated . 
With only the clothes they were wearing , family members moved to a home owned by one of Mr. Chan 's sons . 
He rejoined his family in January 1984 and began the long struggle for justice , pressing everyone from Hanoi municipal officials to National Assembly deputies for restoration of his rights . 
He and his family kept afloat by repairing bicycles , selling fruit and doing odd jobs . 
By late last year he was invited back as `` the tire king '' to display his products at a national exhibition . 
National leaders stopped by his stand to commend his achievements . 
When district authorities allowed him to resume manufacturing , they released only one of his machines . 
They did n't return the rubber stocks that represent his capital . 
Mr. Ngoc , 57 years old , had solid reformist credentials : He had lost his official position in the association in he early 1980s because he questioned the intrusion of politics into literature . 
: He had lost his official position in the association in he early 1980s because he questioned the intrusion of politics into literature . 
Appointed editor in chief in July 1987 , Mr. Ngoc rapidly turned the staid Van Nghe into Vietnam 's hottest paper . 
Readers were electrified by the paper 's audacity and appalled by the dark side of life it uncovered . 
Another described how tax-collection officials in Thanh Hoa province one night stormed through homes and confiscated rice from starving villagers . 
`` Those who manage ideology and a large number of writers reacted badly '' to the restyled paper , says Lai Nguyen An , a literary critic . 
After months of internal rumblings , Mr. Ngoc was fired last December . 
`` The paper reflected the truth . 
For the leadership , that was too painful to bear . '' 
She charged ahead of the government and the law to establish Hochiminh City Food Co. as the biggest rice dealer in the country . 
Her success , which included alleviating an urban food shortage in the early 1980s , helped persuade Hanoi to take the reform path . 
Her story is becoming part of local folklore . 
Her instincts were capitalistic , despite her background . 
The authorities have steered foreign reporters to her office to see an example of `` the new way of thinking . '' 
`` Some people call me the communist billionaire , '' she has told visitors . 
Last year , Hochiminh City Food says it bought two million metric tons of unhusked rice , more than 10 % of the country 's output . 
A subsidiary company processes commodities into foods such as instant noodles that are sold with the rice through a vast retail network . 
She expects both revenue and profit to gain this year . 
`` I do n't mind the competition inside the country , '' she says . 
`` I am only afraid that with Vietnam 's poor-quality products we ca n't compete with neighboring countries . 
Moody 's Investors Service Inc. said it is reviewing , with an eye toward a possible downgrade , the ratings on Bay View Federal bonds , long-term deposits and the preferred-stock rating of its parent company , Bay View Capital Corp . 
In the third paragraph it referred to the senators seeking loophole suggestions from lobbyists for various sectors of the economy . 
Among them , `` banana farmers . '' 
The Hawaii Banana Industry Association , to which nearly all of them belong , has no lobbyist . 
Sales for the just-ended period fell to about $ 225 million , the maker of computer parts said . 
`` We are positioned to come through , '' he said , noting that the company 's backlog was up from the previous quarter . 
Although the plant itself was n't damaged , Mr. Johnson said millions of dollars in first-quarter revenue were lost . 
The revenue will be regained in the current period , he added . 
He said Western Digital has reacted swiftly to the movement to video graphics array , VGA , graphics technology from the old enhanced graphics adapter , EGA , which has a lower resolution standard , technology and now is one of the leading producers of these newer units . 
Other makers of video controller equipment also were caught in the EGA-VGA shift , he said , `` but we were able to respond much more quickly . '' 
He said the company has cut operating expenses by about 10 % over the last few quarters , while maintaining research and development at about 8 % to 9 % of sales . 
Disk drives , which allow a computer to access its memory , generated 38 % more revenue in the most recent period compared with the fiscal first quarter a year earlier . 
As smaller and more powerful computers continue to be the focus of the industry , he said , Western Digital is strengthening development of laptop parts . 
Plans to dissolve many of the trade barriers within Europe in 1992 creates significant opportunities for the company , he said , particularly since Western Digital already manufactures there . 
Capitalizing on that presence , Western Digital is launching a major effort to develop the embryonic reseller market in Europe . 
The bank 's chairman and director general , who also sit on the board , still would be appointed by the Treasury . 
The ensuing scandal , in which the bank 's management resigned , has helped renew calls for privatization , or at least an overhaul , of Italy 's banking system , which is about 80 % state-controlled . 
Income from continuing operations was up 26 % . 
Revenue rose 24 % to $ 6.5 billion from $ 5.23 billion . 
The bank 's Third World debt portfolio totals $ 560 million , down from $ 2.2 billion at the end of 1986 . 
The figures exclude businesses now organized as American Express Information Services Co . 
Travel sales rose 11 % , led by gains in the U.S. . 
Assets owned or managed rose 20 % to $ 45 billion , and mutual fund sales rose 45 % in the quarter to $ 923 million . 
The results include $ 106 million of tax benefits associated with previous years ' Third World loan activity , compared with $ 15 million a year earlier . 
; its latest results include a $ 37 million gain from the sale of an institutional money management business . 
; it owns about 68 % of Shearson 's common . 
Revenue rose 24 % to $ 18.73 billion from $ 15.09 billion . 
Revenue of $ 1.73 billion was almost unchanged from last year 's $ 1.72 billion . 
Net was aided by a lower income tax rate . 
A year ago , net was $ 170.4 million , or $ 1.93 a share , on revenue of $ 5.3 billion . 
A federal judge has issued a preliminary injunction against the purchase because of Federal Trade Commission concerns that the transaction would reduce competition in the production of two kinds of rivets . 
Nelson Bunker Hunt is considering it , although his attorney says he wo n't do it if the proposal jeopardizes a tentative settlement he has reached with the Internal Revenue Service , which claims the brothers owe $ 1 billion in back taxes and is by far the biggest creditor in both cases . 
Under it , the former billionaire 's assets would be liquidated with the IRS getting 80 % of the proceeds and the rest being divided among other creditors , including Minpeco and Manufacturers Hanover Trust Co. , which is seeking repayment of a $ 36 million loan . 
With support from the IRS , Manufacturers Hanover has filed suit asking Judge Abramson to subordinate Minpeco 's claim to those of Manufacturer Hanover and the IRS . 
Minpeco has threatened a `` volcano '' of litigation if the Manufacturers Hanover Corp. unit attempts to force such a plan through the court . 
`` Developments like this are hard to predict . 
The $ 6.07 billion increase was the strongest weekly inflow since January 1988 . 
The average seven-day compounded yield fell to 8.55 % from 8.60 % the week earlier , Donoghue 's said . 
The 235 general-purpose funds increased $ 2.53 billion to $ 116.56 billion , while 96 broker-dealer funds increased $ 1.3 billion to $ 154.05 billion . 
The subsidiary , Bumiputra Malaysia Finance Ltd. , was left with M$ 2.26 billion in bad loans made to Hong Kong property speculators . 
Each time , the bank 's 90 % shareholder -- Petroliam Nasional Bhd. , or Petronas , the national oil company -- has been called upon to rescue the institution . 
In five years , Petronas , which became the dominant shareholder in a 1984 rescue exercise , has spent about M$ 3.5 billion to prop up the troubled bank . 
Malaysia 's High Court is expected to approve the plan . 
For the previous financial year , the bank would have reported a pretax profit of M$ 168 million if it had n't made provisions for the nonperforming loans , he said . 
At the end of the exercise , the cash injection from Petronas will increase the bank 's paid-up capital to M$ 1.15 billion after virtually being wiped out by the new provisions . 
White , 24 years old , a singer in her church choir , she symbolizes a generation that gave its heart and its vote to Ronald Reagan . 
`` I felt kind of safe , '' she says . 
When the Supreme Court opened the door this year to new restrictions on abortion , Ms. Ehman opened her mind to Democratic politics . 
Then a political novice , she stepped into a whirl of `` pro-choice '' marches , house parties and fund-raisers . 
`` People my age thought it was n't going to be an issue . 
Now it has -- especially for people my age . '' 
Unless he closes the gap , Republicans risk losing not only the governorship but also the assembly next month . 
Going into the 1990s , the GOP is paying a price for the same conservative social agenda that it used to torment Democrats in the past . 
New Jersey 's own highest court remains a liberal bulwark against major restrictions on abortion , but the U.S. Supreme Court ruling , Webster vs. Missouri , has engaged voters across the nation who had been insulated from the issue . 
Now , the threat of further restrictions adds a new dimension , bringing an upsurge in political activity by abortion-rights forces . 
A recent pro-choice rally in Trenton drew thousands , and in a major reversal , Congress is defying a presidential veto and demanding that Medicaid abortions be permitted in cases of rape and incest . 
`` We could have shouted from the rooftops about Courter ... and no one would have heard us . '' 
The infusion of activists can bring a clash of cultures . 
In Cherry Hill , the National Abortion Rights Action League , whose goal is to sign up 50,000 pro-choice voters , targets a union breakfast to build labor support for its cause . 
The league organizers seem more a fit with a convention next door of young aerobics instructors in leotards than the beefy union leaders ; `` I wish I could go work out , '' says a slim activist . 
; `` I wish I could go work out , '' says a slim activist . 
A labor chief speaks sardonically of having to `` man and woman '' Election Day phones . 
A year ago this fall , New Jersey voters under 30 favored George Bush by 56 % to 39 % over Michael Dukakis , according to a survey then by Rutgers University 's Eagleton Institute . 
A matching Eagleton-Newark Star Ledger poll last month showed a complete reversal . 
Voters in the same age group backed Democrat Florio 55 % to 29 % over Republican Courter . 
By a 2-to-1 ratio , voters appear more at ease with Mr. Florio 's stance on abortion , and polls indicate his lead widens when the candidates are specifically linked to the issue . 
It is a distinction that satisfies neither side in the debate . 
Even abortion opponents , however angry with Mr. Florio , ca n't hide their frustration with the Republican 's ambivalence . 
`` He does n't want to lead the people , '' says Richard Traynor , president of New Jersey Right to Life . 
He hurt himself further this summer by bringing homosexual issues into the debate ; and by wavering on this issue and abortion , he has weakened his credibility in what is already a mean-spirited campaign on both sides . 
While the Warren County congressman pursued an anti-government , anti-tax agenda in Washington , Gov. Kean was approving increased income and sales taxes at home and overseeing a near doubling in the size of New Jersey 's budget in his eight years in office . 
Mr. Courter 's free-market plan to bring down auto insurance rates met criticism from Gov. Kean 's own insurance commissioner . 
He is warm and polished before a Puerto Rican Congress in Asbury Park . Yet minutes after promising to appoint Hispanics to high posts in state government , he is unable to say whether he has ever employed any in his congressional office . 
`` I do n't think we do now , '' he says . `` I think we did . '' 
`` I think we did . '' 
When he is presented with a poster celebrating the organization 's 20th anniversary , he recognizes a photograph of one of the founders and recalls time spent together in Camden . 
His base in South Jersey and on the House Energy and Commerce Committee helped him sustain a network of political-action committees to preserve his edge . 
With limited budgets for television in a high-priced market , Mr. Florio 's higher recognition than his rival is a major advantage . 
Auto insurance rates are soaring . 
A toxic-waste-dump fire destroyed part of an interstate highway this summer . 
In Monmouth , an important swing area , Republican freeholders now run on a slogan promising to keep the county `` clean and green . '' 
He speaks for the death penalty as if reading from Exodus 21 ; to increase state revenue he focuses not on `` taxes '' but on `` audits '' to cut waste . 
; to increase state revenue he focuses not on `` taxes '' but on `` audits '' to cut waste . 
Hard-hitting consultants match ads with Mr. Courter 's team , and Mr. Florio retools himself as the lean , mean Democratic fighting machine of the 1990s . 
Appealing to a young audience , he scraps an old reference to Ozzie and Harriet and instead quotes the Grateful Dead . 
The lyric chosen -- `` long strange night '' -- may be an apt footnote to television spots by both candidates intended to portray each other as a liar . 
His campaign hierarchy is chosen from elsewhere in the state , and faced with criticism of a sweetheart bank investment , he has so far blunted the issue by donating the bulk of his profits to his alma mater , Trenton State College . 
Pasquale Pignatelli , an unlikely but enthusiastic pipe major in an Essex County Irish bagpipe band , speaks sadly of Mr. Florio . 
`` I am a devout Catholic , '' says Mr. Pignatelli , a 40-year-old health officer . 
`` I ca n't support him because of abortion . '' 
She has lots of opinions . 
The climb in wholesale energy prices is certain to push up retail energy prices in the next few months , they warned . 
`` It has been in what I would describe as a lull for the past several months . '' 
Though analysts say competition will probably hold down increases in retail energy prices , many expect some of the wholesale rise to be passed along to the consumer before the end of the year . 
`` It increasingly appears that 1987-88 was a temporary inflation blip and not the beginning of a cyclical inflation problem , '' argued Edward Yardeni , chief economist at Prudential-Bache Securities Inc. in New York . 
A run-up in world oil prices last winter sent consumer prices soaring at a 6.7 % annual rate in the first five months of this year , but the subsequent decline in energy prices has pulled the annual rate back down to 4.4 % . 
`` The bottom line is , it seems to me that the economic environment has become very , very competitve for a lot of businesses , '' he said . 
`` Back in 1987-88 , business was operating at fairly tight capacity , so businesses felt they could raise prices . '' 
Now , he said , a slowdown in economic activity has slackened demand . 
The steep climb in producer prices reported last Friday fostered pessimism about lower interest rates and contributed to the stock market 's 6.9 % plunge that day . 
Analysts say Fed policy makers have been wary of relaxing credit too much because they were still uncertain about the level of inflation in the economy . 
Transportation costs actually fell 0.5 % , and housing costs gained only 0.1 % . 
Apparel prices rocketed up 1.7 % , but that was after three months of declines . 
Medical costs continued their steep ascent , rising 0.8 % after four consecutive months of 0.7 % increases . 
They dropped 0.4 % as dealers continued to offer rebates to attract customers . 
Some have built health spas , business centers and shopping villages so visitors have more to do than ski . 
Since the start of the decade , lift-ticket sales have grown only 3 % a year on average , compared with 16 % annual growth rates in the '60s and '70s . 
Last season , lift-ticket sales fell for the first time in seven years . 
By some estimates , nearly a fourth of all U.S. ski areas have been forced to shut down since the early '80s . 
Skiing , after all , has mainly been for the young and daring and many baby boomers have outgrown skiing or have too many family responsibilities to stick with the sport . 
One 60-second TV spot features a diverse group of skiers gracefully gliding down sun-drenched slopes : senior citizens , minorities , families with children -- even a blind skier . 
`` You 'll never know 'til you try , '' says a black skier . 
`` We wanted to show it 's okay if you fall , '' says Ms. Dillmann . 
`` Most people think if you slip , you 'll wind up in a body cast . '' 
Since 40 % of skiers are parents , many slopes are building nurseries , expanding ski schools and adding entertainment for kids . 
Vail , Colo. , now has a playland that looks like an old mining town ; kids can ski through and pan for fool 's gold . 
For $ 15 , they can enjoy their own nightly entertainment , with dinner , without mom and dad . 
`` Most parents who had to go through that never came back , '' says Michael Shannon , president of Vail Associates Inc. , which owns and operates the Vail and nearby Beaver Creek resorts . 
In one phone call , ski buffs can make hotel and restaurant reservations , buy lift tickets , rent ski equipment and sign up for lessons . 
: a lift ticket can cost up to $ 35 a day and equipment prices are rising . 
An American Express Co. survey of its travel agents revealed that only 34 % believe their clients will pick a trip this winter based on the availability of winter sports , as opposed to 69 % who think that warm-weather sports will be the deciding factor . 
`` Most people will come on the weekend , the slopes will be overcrowded and then these -LCB- new skiers -RCB- wo n't come back . 
The theory is that the stadium , damaged by Tuesday 's earthquake , will be repaired by then , and that people will be able to get there . 
Like just about everything else , that remains to be seen . 
Aftershocks could intervene . 
As soon as the tremor passed , many people spontaneously arose and cheered , as though it had been a novel kind of pre-game show . 
Perhaps primed by the daily diet of radio and TV reporters thrusting microphones into people 's faces and asking how they `` feel '' about one calamity or another , fellow reporters and civilians who spied my press credential were eager to chat . 
A women said she saw the park 's light standards sway . 
A man said he saw the upper rim undulate . 
I saw neither . 
`` I was near the top of the stadium , and saw a steel girder bow six feet from where I sat , but I stayed put for 10 or 15 minutes , '' confessed a friend . 
`` I guess I thought , ` This is the World Series and I 'm not gon na wimp out ! ' '' 
Electrical power was out in still-daylighted Candlestick Park , but battery-operated radios and television sets were plentiful . 
Within a few minutes , the true extent of the catastrophe was becoming clear . 
Its Richter Scale measurement was reported as 6.5 , then 6.9 , then 7.0 . 
A section of the Bay Bridge had collapsed , as had a part of Interstate Highway 880 in Oakland . 
People had died . 
No longer innocent , they qualified as fools . 
The stadium was ordered evacuated soon afterward ; the announcement , made over police bullhorns , cited the power outage , but it later was revealed that there also had been damage of the sort reported by my friend . 
; the announcement , made over police bullhorns , cited the power outage , but it later was revealed that there also had been damage of the sort reported by my friend . 
Outside , I spotted two young men lugging blocks of concrete . 
The only frenzy I saw was commercial : Booths selling World Series commemorative stamps and dated postmarks were besieged by fledgling speculators who saw future profit in the items . 
: Booths selling World Series commemorative stamps and dated postmarks were besieged by fledgling speculators who saw future profit in the items . 
It took me a half-hour to move 10 feet from my parking spot in an outer lot to an aisle , and an additional hour to reach an inner roadway a half-block away . 
The six-mile trip to my airport hotel that had taken 20 minutes earlier in the day took more than three hours . 
With Garpian randomness , a hotel across the street , the Amfac , had been hit harder : A large sheet of its concrete facade and several window balconies were torn away . 
: A large sheet of its concrete facade and several window balconies were torn away . 
My response was that sports rarely are important , only diverting , and the quake merely highlighted that fact . 
The quake and baseball were n't related , unlike the massacre of athletes that attended the 1972 Olympics . 
That heavily politicized event learned nothing from the horrifying experience , and seems doomed to repeat it . 
This has been widely dubbed the BART Series , after the local subway line , and the Bay Bridge Series . 
Flags fly at half-staff for the death of Bart Giamatti , the late baseball commissioner , and now the Bay Bridge lies in ruins . 
A Series that was shaping up as the dullest since the one-sided Detroit-over-San Diego go of 1984 has become memorable in the least fortunate way . 
It now will be played mostly for the record , and should be wrapped up as quickly as possible , without `` off '' days . 
That was seen as an advantage in lobbying airline employees and Washington regulators for approval of the contested takeover . 
Another 20 % of the borrowed funds would come from the sale to investors of junk bonds , which offer less security and typically carry higher yields than bank loans . 
His client , Mr. Davis , used just such a letter from Citicorp in pursuing UAL ; Citicorp later agreed to work with a competing UAL buy-out group . 
`` We did n't take part in a lot of deals because their credit quality was poor , '' says a bank spokesman . 
As evidence , he cites yesterday 's arrangement for the final financing of a $ 3 billion bid for American Medical International Inc. in which Chemical served as both the lead bank and an equity investor . 
Arthur Fleischer Jr. , a takeover lawyer at Fried Frank Harris Shriver & Jacobson , notes that `` a political and emotional bias '' has developed against junk bonds . 
A Paramount spokesman says that decision was based on the financial , not political , drawbacks of junk bonds . 
Some Monday-morning quarterbacks said the initial lower bid , without junk bonds , was a factor in his losing the company . 
Harley has said it does n't intend to be acquired by the Glazer group or any other party . 
Sales fell to $ 981.2 million from $ 1.02 billion . 
Third-quarter shipments slipped 7 % from the year-ago period , and 17 % from this year 's second quarter . 
Charles Bradford , an analyst with Merrill Lynch Capital Markets , said higher prices for galvanized and cold-rolled products offset lower prices for bar , hot-rolled and structural steel . 
Structural steel , which primarily serves the construction market , was especially hurt by a 15 % price drop , Mr. Bradford said . 
The increased labor costs became effective Aug. 1 under terms of the four-year labor agreement with the United Steelworkers union . 
When things are quiet -LRB- low volatility -RRB- , the structures on which markets stand can be relatively inefficient and still perform their functions adequately . 
In today 's markets , specialists -LRB- on the New York Stock Exchange -RRB- and `` upstairs '' market makers -LRB- in the over-the-counter market -RRB- are the only market participants allowed to play a direct role in the price-determination process . 
When they halt trading , all market liquidity is gone . 
When that happened , `` seismic '' tremors of fear -- much like the shock waves created by an earthquake -- coursed through the market and increased the market 's volatility . 
Lack of important , needed information can cause fear . 
Because of a lack of information and access , many investors -- including the very ones whose buying power could restore stability and damp volatility -- are forced to stand on the sidelines when they are most needed , because of their ignorance of important market information . 
To add aftershock-damping power to America 's markets , a modern , electronic trading system should be implemented that permits equal access to the trading arena -LRB- and the information that would automatically accompany such access -RRB- by investors -- particularly institutional investors . 
What market makers provide is immediacy , a very valuable service . 
Liquidity is not a service . 
It is a market attribute -- the ability to absorb selling orders without causing significant price changes in the absence of news . 
: The unwanted position is still an unwanted position ; only the identity of the seller has changed . 
; only the identity of the seller has changed . 
Current quotations would reflect the combined financial judgment of all market participants -- not just those of intermediaries who become extremely risk-averse during times of crisis . 
The economy 's stutter steps leave investors wondering whether things are slowing down or speeding up . 
So often are government statistics revised that they seem to resemble a spinning weather vane . 
Some may have forgotten -- and some younger ones may never have experienced -- what it 's like to invest during a recession . 
Different tactics are called for , as losing money becomes easier and making money becomes tougher . 
A heavy dose of cash is prescribed , along with a heavier-than-usual allotment to bonds -- preferably government bonds . 
`` They always seem to come a bit later than you expect . 
When they do hit , they hit fast , '' says David A. Wyss , chief financial economist at the Data Resources division of McGraw-Hill Inc . 
As surely as a seesaw tilts , falling interest rates force up the price of previously issued bonds . 
They are worth more because they pay higher interest than newly issued bonds do . 
Long-term bonds , with many years left before maturity , swing more widely in price . 
Corporate bonds `` are usually not a good bet in a recession , '' Mr. Wyss says . 
As times get tougher , investors fret about whether companies will have enough money to pay their debts . 
This hurts the price of corporate bonds . 
When interest rates have dropped , it makes sense for corporations to do just that ; they then save on interest costs . 
; they then save on interest costs . 
It 's an `` absolute necessity '' to get out of junk bonds when a recession is in the offing , says Avner Arbel , professor of finance at Cornell University . 
`` Such bonds are very sensitive to the downside , and this could be a disaster . '' 
During an economic slump , local tax revenues often go down , raising the risks associated with at least some municipals . 
One of these is Jeffrey L. Beach , director of research for Underwood Neuhaus & Co. , a brokerage house in Houston , who thinks that `` we 're either in a recession or about to go into one . '' 
What 's more , he thinks this could be a nastier recession than usual : `` Once the downturn comes , it 's going to be very hard to reverse . '' 
: `` Once the downturn comes , it 's going to be very hard to reverse . '' 
Because he sees a `` 5 % to 6 % base rate of inflation in the economy , '' he doubts that interest rates will fall much any time soon . 
He is n't sure a recession is coming , but says the other likely alternative -- reignited inflation -- is just as bad . 
The Federal Reserve Board 's plan for a `` soft landing , '' he says , requires the Fed to navigate `` an ever-narrowing corridor . '' 
It has to be engineered over and over again , month after month . 
He believes that the task facing Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan is so difficult that it resembles `` juggling a double-bladed ax and a buzz saw . '' 
It comes down to a question of whether to try to `` time '' the market . 
Most studies show that buy-and-hold investors historically have earned an annual return from stocks of 9 % to 10 % , including both dividends and price appreciation . 
`` Trying to time the economy is a mistake , '' says David Katz , chief investment officer of Value Matrix Management Inc. in New York . 
Mr. Katz notes that some economists have been predicting a recession for at least two years . 
Investors who listened , and lightened up on stocks , `` have just hurt themselves , '' he says . 
Frequent trading runs up high commission costs . 
After all , in all five recessions since 1960 , stocks declined . 
According to Ned Davis , president of Ned Davis Research Inc. in Nokomis , Fla. , the average drop in the Dow Jones Industrial Average was about 21 % , and the decrease began an average of six months before a recession officially started . 
About six months before a recession ends , stocks typically begin to rise again , as investors anticipate a recovery . 
Mr. Katz advocates issues with low price-earnings ratios -- that is , low prices in relation to the company 's earnings per share . 
`` Low P-E '' stocks , he says , vastly outperform others `` during a recession or bear market . '' 
In good times , he says , they lag a bit , but overall they provide superior performance . 
Small-company shares typically fall more than big-company stocks in a recession , he says . 
That ratio is dangerously close to the ratio of 19.7 that prevailed before the 1987 stock-market crash , Mr. Arbel says . 
Recession or not , people still eat , smoke , and take medicine when they 're sick . 
`` Keep some money available for opportunities , '' he says . 
`` If the recession does hit , there will be some great investment opportunities just when things seem the blackest . '' 
On Wednesday , Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. had to slash the size of Continental Airlines ' junk-bond offering to $ 71 million from $ 150 million . 
Salomon Brothers Inc. has delayed Grand Union Co. 's $ 1.16 billion junk-bond offering while it restructures the transaction . 
Last week , the Grand Union offering was sweetened to include warrants that allow bondholders to acquire common stock . 
If you 're going to take the risk in this market , you want something extra . '' 
The bonds are expected to have a 14 1\/2 % coupon rate . 
That would leave the Blackstone fund with a 60 % stake and Donaldson Lufkin with 15 % . 
Junk bonds ended about one-half point higher with so-called high-quality issues from RJR Capital Holdings Corp. and Petrolane Gas Service Limited Partnership rising one point . 
The gain reflects fresh economic evidence that inflation is moderating while the economy slows . 
That raised hopes that interest rates will continue to move lower . 
The Labor Department reported that consumer prices rose just 0.2 % last month , slightly lower than some economists had expected . 
The move was interpreted by some economists as a sign that the Fed does n't want the federal funds rate to move any lower than the 8 3\/4 % at which it has been hovering around during the past week . 
They are telling us that -LCB- 8 3\/4 % -RCB- is as low as they want to see the fed funds rate , '' said Robert Chandross at Lloyds Bank PLC . 
The latest 10-year notes were quoted late at 100 9\/32 to yield 7.937 % , compared with 99 26\/32 to yield 8.007 % . 
The discount rate on three-month Treasury bills rose to 7.56 % from 7.51 % Wednesday , while the rate on six-month bills rose to 7.57 % from 7.53 % . 
There was speculation that the supply was coming from a commercial bank 's portfolios . 
Long dollar bonds were flat to up 3\/8 point . 
A balance of $ 25.8 million remained in late order-taking , according to the lead manager . 
The Ginnie Mae 9 % issue was yielding 9.42 % to a 12-year average life assumption , as the spread above the Treasury 10-year note widened 0.03 percentage point to 1.48 . 
The transaction has had a series of setbacks since the financing problems became known last Friday , with no signs or statements from the buy-out group to indicate that any progress has taken place . 
Pilot union Chairman Frederick C. Dubinsky said advisers to UAL management and the union will begin meeting in New York today and will work through the weekend to devise a new proposal to present to UAL 's board `` at the earliest time possible . '' 
Pilot union advisers appeared confident that a new bid could go forward even without British Air 's participation . 
In an effort to derail the buy-out , the union has already called for investigations by the Securities and Exchange Commission , Transportation Department and Labor Department . 
The United flight-attendants union agreed to negotiations that could lead to the flight attendants contributing concessions to a revived bid in exchange for an ownership stake . 
The pilot union , the only one to support the buy-out thus far , said the flight attendants ' decision `` enforces our belief that an all-employee owned airline is practical and achievable . '' 
We 're not rushing into anything . 
We do n't want to be party to a second rejection . '' 
The original transaction fell through on the same day British Air shareholders approved the plan at a special meeting after the British succeeded in arranging the financing for its equity contribution . 
`` The -LCB- buy-out -RCB- consortium ceased to exist because our American partners were not capable of organizing the financing , '' a British Air spokesman said . 
Most of the department 's statements since the Northwest transaction indicated it planned to curtail foreign ownership stakes in U.S. carriers . 
They have maintained that banks remain interested in financing the transaction . 
Sales of consumer goods rose 6.9 % in the same period , while sales of intermediate goods were up 13.8 % from a year ago . 
The plan was complete except for finishing touches , and there was talk that it would be unveiled as early as yesterday . 
Sen. Mitchell urged them to desist . 
Having a proposal sponsored by Democrats would have given the president an advantage . 
Having only a Republican measure makes the task harder . 
He said a clear majority of senators back the tax reduction and that ultimately there would be enough senators to overcome any procedural hurdle the Democratic leadership might erect . 
Mr. Mitchell has been predicting that the president 's initiative would fail this year . 
Yesterday , in an interview , he added that the Democrats ' decision `` increases the likelihood that a capital-gains tax cut will not pass this year . '' 
Mr. Mitchell 's first victory came last week , when the Senate passed a deficit-reduction bill that did n't contain a capital-gains provision . 
That vote made it unlikely that a capital-gains tax cut would be included in the final bill , now being drafted by House and Senate negotiators . 
The House version of the bill does include the tax cut . 
To help lay the groundwork for that fight , President Bush plans early next week to meet at the White House with some 20 Democratic senators who favor cutting the capital-gains tax or are undecided on the issue . 
`` I may want to offer additional amendments to improve it when the bill comes to the floor , '' said Sen. David Boren -LRB- D. , Okla. -RRB- , a leader of those Democrats . 
The exclusion would rise five percentage points for each year the asset was held , until it reached a maximum of 35 % after seven years . 
The exclusion would apply to assets sold after Oct. 1 . 
That rate would gradually decline to as little as 29 % for corporate assets held for 15 years . 
The Roth plan would create a new , non-deductible IRA from which money could be withdrawn tax-free not only for retirement , but also for the purchase of a first home , education expenses and medical expenses . 
Current IRAs could be rolled over into the new IRAs , but would be subject to tax though no penalty . 
For the year-earlier period , the company reported a loss of $ 520,000 or six cents a share . 
Last year 's net loss of $ 3,524,000 included a benefit of $ 1,640,000 from an accounting change . 
Revenue for the nine months rose to $ 449 million from $ 441.1 million . 
He predicted the debt ratio will improve further in coming quarters . 
Marginal operations and assets have been sold . 
The size of the company 's board has been reduced to eight directors from 13 . 
About 140 salaried management jobs and hundreds of hourly wage positions have been eliminated . 
Even perks have been reduced . 
; the company used to pay 100 % . 
`` Much of what we set out to do is completed . '' 
One difference , he said , is that the fourth quarter has significantly fewer workdays because of holidays and the hunting season . 
`` We have to keep working at improving our core business to stay efficient . 
It 's a process that never really ends . '' 
For all of 1988 , the company reported an after-tax operating loss of $ 134,000 on revenue of $ 593.5 million . 
An accounting adjustment made net income $ 1.5 million , or 18 cents a share . 
He said Westmoreland is looking at investment stakes in other cogeneration plants east of the Mississippi River . 
`` We see coal 's piece of the action growing , '' Mr. Hutchinson said . 
`` Coal prices , while not skyrocketing , will grow modestly in real terms , we think . 
Of that amount , $ 20 million was payment for the land underneath the building and the rest was for the building itself . 
Chase Senior Vice President George Scandalios said the bank decided to exercise its option after bids fell short of expectations . 
He said Chase and the Atlas estate were looking to sell the entire building for $ 400 million to $ 475 million , but did n't get an offer for more than $ 375 million . 
Chase is vacating 1.1 million square feet of space , and Salomon Brothers Inc. , whose headquarters is in the building , also plans to move shortly . 
Wall Street has n't gotten that far yet , but it has made a promising start . 
When something undeniably nasty happens , a few euphemisms are deployed to simply make it disappear , much as a fresh grave may be covered by a blanket of flowers . 
Wrong . 
According to some of the grand panjandrums of the market , it never happened . 
In their lexicon the 508-point collapse in the Dow Jones Industrial Average on Oct. 19 , 1987 , was just a big blip . 
Trotting out a much-beloved Streetspeak term , New York Stock Exchange Chairman John Phelan recently declared that history would record the event as only `` a major technical correction . '' 
In the `` technical correction '' of two years ago , they lost a whopping 22.6 % . -RRB- 
Either way , the word `` broker '' is clearly out of favor . 
At Merrill Lynch & Co. and Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. , they are `` financial consultants . '' 
At Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. , Prudential Bache Securities , and Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. , they are `` account executives . '' 
At PaineWebber Inc. , they are `` investment executives . '' 
It is a competence and expertise that some brokers themselves , overwhelmed by all the new things being dreamed up for them to peddle , do n't feel . 
`` It s almost product de jour , '' grouses one account executive at Dean Witter . 
The names of some of these products do n't suggest the risk involved in buying them , either . 
What could imply more safety than investing in government bonds ? 
This seems to be happening now to limited partnerships , many of which either have gone into the tank in recent years or have otherwise been grievous disappointments . 
They are still being sold , but more and more often as `` direct investments '' -- with all the same risks they had under the old label . 
In others a familiar old name still prevails , but the underlying game has changed . 
Should n't they properly be called exit-load funds ? 
Larry Biehl , a money manager in San Mateo , Calif. , blames that on the advent of program trading , in which computers used by big institutional investors are programmed to buy and sell big blocks when certain market conditions prevail . 
Blue chips , he says , `` are now being referred to as poker chips . '' 
Before the takeover mania of the '80s , it referred to rooting out through analysis undervalued stocks , especially those with shrewd management , sound fundamentals and decent prospects . 
Now , says Mr. Biehl , value investing often means `` looking for downtrodden companies with terrible management that are in real trouble . '' 
To institutional investors or brokers , he adds , a company with value is a company at risk of being swallowed up . 
If the whole story were told , it would read something like this : 
; per-share earnings remained flat despite an increase in net income in part because the company paid a $ 10.4 million dividend on the new preferred stock in the period . 
Sales rose 9 % to $ 921.6 million from $ 845.7 million , with sales of the company 's international\/diversified operations `` well above '' the year earlier-period . 
Sales rose 6 % to $ 2.77 billion from $ 2.61 billion . 
: The two had a prior commitment . 
Just seven months earlier , they had signed a five-year exclusive contract to make movies for Warner Bros. for which they had just produced the smash hit `` Batman . '' 
Last week , following fruitless settlement talks , Warner , now merging with Time Inc. , filed a $ 1 billion breach of contract suit in Los Angeles Superior Court against both Sony and Guber Peters . 
Sony promptly countersued , charging Warner with trying to sabotage its acquisitions and hurt its efforts to enter the U.S. movie business . 
The accusations of lying and duplicity are flying thick and fast on both sides : As one Sony executive puts it , `` It 's World War III . '' 
: As one Sony executive puts it , `` It 's World War III . '' 
Mr. Guber was raised in Boston and educated in New York . 
He is a lawyer with a string of academic degrees . 
Mr. Peters is a high-school dropout who came to fame as Barbra Streisand 's hairdresser . 
After five years of management turmoil , with four different studio heads , Columbia sorely needs a stable , savvy team to restore its credibility and get it back in the business of making hits . 
Sometimes Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters do little more than grab the first draft of a screenplay for a `` Flashdance , '' or buy rights to a best seller such as `` The Color Purple . '' 
It falls to others to do the writing , directing and producing . 
Sometimes , as with `` Batman , '' the pair really do make the film . 
In that case , Guber Peters acquired the rights in 1979 , nursed the movie through a dozen scripts , and were on the set in London for 11 months hovering over the most minute changes in casting and production . 
`` I wish they were around 24 hours a day . '' 
Warner executives blame Mr. Guber 's and Mr. Peters 's lack of involvement in `` Caddyshack II '' for casting and production problems and the film 's ultimate dismal failure . 
`` We 've had a few bombs , '' admits Mr. Peters . 
He says his company 's prowess at packaging and marketing `` is why we 'll be good at Columbia . 
We practically ran our own studio . '' 
Mark Johnson , the producer of `` Rainman , '' chimes in : `` He has a great ability to hire terrific people and delegate authority ... . 
It 's no accident that they 've been able to develop such successful material . '' 
He gets better reviews as a creative whiz , an enthusiast , an idea man . 
Barbra Streisand made him famous . 
He cut her hair . 
He lived with her . 
He came to produce her records and her movies -- `` A Star Is Born '' and `` The Main Event . '' 
`` Peter is the bright , sympathetic guy when you 're doing a deal , '' says one agent . `` If there 's a problem , Peter disappears , and all of a sudden Jon shows up . '' 
`` If there 's a problem , Peter disappears , and all of a sudden Jon shows up . '' 
Producers Don Simpson and Jerry Bruckheimer , who shepherded `` Flashdance '' through several scripts and ultimately produced the movie , bristle when Messrs. Guber and Peters take credit for the film . 
Says Mr. Simpson : `` The script was unreadable . 
We reinvented it . 
We are the producers of that movie . 
They got a small piece of the net profits and a screen credit '' as executive producers . 
Mr. Peters acknowledges that and says it 's not unlike the situation he and Mr. Guber are in with Warner . 
`` I was upset with Roger , I fumpered and schmumpered , '' says Mr. Peters . 
The two `` have a wonderful chemistry -- Jon is very impulsive , and Peter is very compulsive , '' adds Mr. Birnbaum , who is now head of production at News Corp. 's 20th Century Fox Film Co . 
`` Jon Peters will come barreling into a room , say he 's got a great idea , and be gone . Peter will take the kernel of that idea and make it grow into something specific ... . '' 
Peter will take the kernel of that idea and make it grow into something specific ... . '' 
He says , `` Within a few weeks , we made deals with the government of Rwanda and everyone who had ever met or talked to Dian Fossey . 
I think Peter even made some deals with the gorillas . '' 
Money helped , too . 
Some of the money will go to the Chico Mendes Foundation , but it is n't earmarked for groups trying to save the rain forest . -RRB- 
Some note that Sony might have saved itself some trouble by just hiring Mr. Guber and letting Mr. Peters stay on to fulfill the Warner contract . 
`` This business is n't about personalities at the end of the day -- it s about whether the ink is red or black . 
In the case of Peter and Jon , the ink has been very , very black . '' 
Recruited from New York University 's MBA program , he rose within two years to head of production , overseeing such films as `` The Way We Were , '' `` Taxi Driver , '' `` Tommy '' and `` Shampoo . '' 
In 1976 , he teamed up with record producer Neil Bogart in Casablanca Records and Filmworks -- later called Polygram Pictures -- where they produced such hits as as `` The Deep , '' and `` Midnight Express . '' 
While Guber Peters produced a number of hits for Warner and others , their record was n't always so impressive . 
Among their clinkers were `` The Legend of Billie Jean , '' `` VisionQuest , '' `` Clue '' and `` Clan of the Cave Bear . '' 
The studio says it stuck with them `` even in the early years when the creative partnership was not particularly profitable for Warner . '' 
`` From the beginning , -LCB- they -RCB- knew we had a goal and a dream , '' says Mr. Guber . 
On a number of occasions , he adds , he tried to get Warner to buy Guber Peters outright . 
`` They always listened , but they never acted , '' Mr. Guber says . 
In July a year later , Warner agreed to release the producers from their old contract when Messrs. Guber , Peters and Sugarman made a $ 100 million offer to buy 25 % of MGM\/UA . 
Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters planned to run the nearly dormant MGM studio , and the two even tried to interest Warner Bros . ' President Terry Semel in becoming a partner after he advised them on the deal . 
Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters say they got a look at the books and balked at the price . 
Their relationship with Mr. Sugarman soured shortly thereafter . 
Last May , he sold his 24 % stake in Barris to a passive Australian investor and Barris was renamed Guber Peters Entertainment Co . 
The producers ' 28 % share of publicly held Guber Peters would net them an additional $ 50 million . 
In the the latest quarter , thanks in part to `` Batman , '' Guber Peters earned $ 5.8 million , or 50 cents a share , compared to a loss of $ 6.8 million , or 62 cents a share , in last year 's quarter . 
Guber Peters stock , which traded as low as $ 6 a share last year , closed yesterday at $ 16.625 . 
Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters claim they have an oral agreement with Warner executives that allows them to terminate their contract should the opportunity to run a major studio arise . 
Warner , in its court filings , calls it `` a piece of fiction created for this litigation . '' 
Warner itself was in negotiations with MGM over certain movie and other rights , and it was `` in Warner 's interest to accommodate MGM\/UA , Guber and Peters by permitting them to become MGM executives , '' Mr. Daly said in his affidavit . 
At the very least , Mr. Ross clearly sees an opportunity to use the two men to get a pound of flesh from Sony . 
In any settlement , Warner is almost certain to demand rights to most of the 50 or so projects Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters have locked up for the next few years , notably sequels to `` Batman . '' 
The last time Columbia Pictures was looking for a studio chief , they note , Warner released producer David Puttnam from his contract , then took him back after he was subsequently fired by his bosses at Columbia . 
In his affidavit filed yesterday , Warner 's Mr. Ross indicated he is n't buying any such argument : `` If Sony succeeds here , no written contract in Hollywood will be worth the paper it 's written on . 
: `` If Sony succeeds here , no written contract in Hollywood will be worth the paper it 's written on . 
Better than all those offers you get to buy securities backed by nothing . 
The assets backing the securities come from some of the country 's biggest -- and most secure -- institutions . 
Most earn high ratings from credit agencies . 
Their yields are higher than those of U.S. Treasury issues . 
The concept may be simple : Take a bunch of loans , tie them up in one neat package , and sell pieces of the package to investors . But the simplicity may be misleading . 
They warn that asset-backed securities are only as good as the assets and credit backing that support them -- and those are hard to evaluate . 
`` We do n't know how this whole market will work in a serious economic downturn . '' 
Since the spring of 1985 , financial alchemists have transformed a wide variety of debt into these new securities . 
They have offered bundles of homeequity loans , as well as packages of loans used to buy vacation time-shares . 
Last year , there was an issue of `` death-backed bonds '' -- securities backed by loans to life-insurance policyholders . 
Some predict there will be `` Third World bonds , '' backed by loans to Brazil , Argentina and other debt-ridden nations . 
`` Before the sun sets on the '80s , it seems nothing will be left unhocked . '' 
That includes more than $ 9.5 billion issued through August of this year , up sharply from $ 6.5 billion in the comparable 1988 period -- and more than in all of 1987 . 
The entry fee is affordable : Issues typically are sold in minimum denominations of $ 1,000 . 
: Issues typically are sold in minimum denominations of $ 1,000 . 
Issues typically come with `` credit enhancements , '' such as a bank letter of credit , and thus have received high credit ratings . 
Asset-backed securities `` are an attractive investment compared to bank certificates of deposit or other corporate bonds , '' says Craig J. Goldberg , managing director and head of the asset-backed securities group at Merrill Lynch Capital Markets . 
The triple-A-rated issue offered a yield of only about 0.5 percentage point above four-year Treasury issues . 
On a $ 10,000 investment , that 's a difference of only $ 50 a year . 
That 's why some investment managers , such as Alex Powers , a vice president of Chase Manhattan Bank 's private banking division , do n't recommend most asset-backed issues for individuals in high-tax states , such as New York or California . 
He points out that institutions buying asset-backed issues in large quantities can earn higher spreads over Treasurys than individuals buying smaller amounts . 
The secondary , or resale , market for asset-backed securities is relatively new and much less active than for Treasury issues . 
That could make it tricky for investors who need to sell their holdings quickly before the securities mature . 
That 's particularly true , analysts say , for certain of the securities , such as those backed by time-share loans . 
`` You could see massive gyrations here because it 's such a thinly traded market , '' says Jonathan S. Paris , a vice president of European Investors Inc. , a New York investment-management firm . 
There are n't any such listings for asset-backed securities . 
It is n't . 
That also is n't easy . 
The letter of credit typically is not offered by the bank selling the assets to back the securities . 
When you buy an asset-backed issue , you take the risk that a bank or an insurer could run into unexpected difficulties . 
If a bank 's credit rating was lowered because of , say , its loans to Third World nations , that could also affect the ratings , liquidity and prices of the asset-backed issues that the bank supports . 
At a time when Americans are leveraged to their eyeballs , asset-backed investors may be taking a heady gamble that consumers will be able to repay loans in hard times . 
That could widen the yield spread between Treasurys and asset-backed securities , as well as make it tougher to unload the latter . 
Some analysts are especially wary of credit-card issues . 
For one thing , credit-card loans are unsecured . 
Ratings , he notes , `` are subject to change . '' 
By spreading their wealth among several investment alternatives , the respondents have protected themselves against squalls in any one area , be it stocks , bonds or real estate . 
The response rate , more than 63 % , allows the results to be interpreted with a high degree of confidence . 
Last year , only 8 % were expecting a recession . 
Only 42 % of last year 's respondents anticipated slowing growth . 
A slim majority -LRB- 51 % -RRB- think stock prices will be higher in August 1990 than they were in August 1989 . 
Some 50 % expect real estate in their local area to increase in value over the next 12 months . 
Since gold tends to soar when inflation is high , that finding suggests that people believe inflation remains under control . 
Nearly a third said they have made some portfolio changes to anticipate a possible recession . 
For the most part , the changes were `` slight . '' 
Most own two to 10 stocks , and buy or sell no more than three times a year . 
Some 71 % had bought some stock in the past year ; only 57 % had sold any . 
; only 57 % had sold any . 
About 33 % considered another crash `` likely , '' while about 63 % said one is `` unlikely . '' 
About 60 % of them said they would `` ordinarily '' have at least 25 % of their money in stocks . But as of August , only 50 % actually had stock-market investments of that size . 
It said the reduction reflects impaired business prospects and reduced financial flexibility caused by continuing losses at the maker of Winchester disk drives . 
Moody 's said it expects Valley National , of Phoenix , Ariz. , to make substantial further provisions against its real-estate portfolio , and that it continues to suffer from the high cost of carrying nonperforming assets , and from high loan-loss provisions . 
`` Hostile and even friendly nations routinely steal information from U.S. companies and share it with their own companies , '' said Noel D. Matchett , a former staffer at the federal National Security Agency and now president of Information Security Inc. , Silver Spring , Md . 
Even rank amateurs can do it if they spend a few thousand dollars for a commercially available microwave receiver with amplifier and a VCR recorder . 
They need only position themselves near a company 's satellite dish and wait . 
`` You can have a dozen competitors stealing your secrets at the same time , '' Mr. Matchett said , adding : `` It 's a pretty good bet they wo n't get caught . '' 
, '' Mr. Matchett said , adding : `` It 's a pretty good bet they wo n't get caught . '' 
The only way to catch an electronic thief , he said , is to set him up with erroneous information . 
Already many foreign firms , especially banks , have their own cryptographers , conference speakers reported . 
One expert , whose job is so politically sensitive that he spoke on condition that he would n't be named or quoted , said the expected influx of East European refugees over the next few years will greatly increase the chances of computer-maintenance workers , for example , doubling as foreign spies . 
He said that Oliver North of Iran-Contra notoriety thought he had erased his computer but that the information was later retrieved for congressional committees to read . 
No personal computer , not even the one on a chief executive 's desk , is safe , this speaker noted . 
Under Mr. Gorbachev , Mr. Goode said , the Soviets are openly stealing Western corporate communications . 
He cited the case of a Swiss oil trader who recently put out bids via telex for an oil tanker to pick up a cargo of crude in the Middle East . 
It said $ 10 million would go to the University of Toronto . 
The University is seeking an injunction against the Merieux bid , arguing that Connaught 's predecessor company agreed in 1972 that Connaught 's ownership would n't be transferred to foreigners . 
It said the new agreement would `` replace '' the old one that forms the basis of its suit against the Merieux takeover . 
`` Notwithstanding foreign ownership of Connaught , this accord would enhance research and development in Canada , '' said James Keffer , the university 's vice president of research . 
While he did n't comment directly on the pact between Ciba-Geigy and the university , he said Merieux can transfer new products and technologies to Connaught more rapidly than other companies `` not currently producing and marketing vaccines -LCB- who -RCB- can only promise this for some ... years in the future . '' 
Its largest previous rise this year came Aug. 7 , when it gained 4.31 . 
The Nasdaq Financial Index rose 5.04 , or 1.1 % , to 460.33 . 
The transportation and insurance sectors each posted gains of 8.59 , with the transports finishing at 486.74 and the insurers at 537.91 . 
The Nasdaq industrial index climbed 8.17 to 458.52 , and the `` other finance '' index , made up of commercial banks and real estate and brokerage firms , rose 3.97 to 545.96 . 
The index of smaller banks improved 1.97 . 
The stock was trading at 69 just two weeks ago . 
After the earnings were announced , he raised his fiscal 1990 estimate to between $ 3.80 and $ 4 a share . 
Microsoft earned $ 3.03 a share in fiscal 1989 . 
The operator of fast-food restaurants , whose shares began trading last Friday , climbed 3 1\/8 to 23 on 944,000 shares . 
Its 1.7 million-share offering was priced at 15 . 
In the 1988 quarter , the Phoenix , Ariz. , commercial banking concern earned $ 18.7 million . 
; more than 2.2 million shares changed hands after trading began . 
Raymond James & Associates in St. Petersburg , Fla. , lowered its third-quarter earnings estimate for the company , according to Dow Jones Professional Investor Report . 
Back in New York the work day was already over , so I did n't have to feel guilty . 
The broadcasters were , after all , documenting the game , ratifying its occurrence for millions outside the Stick . 
Why not watch or hear your experience historicized while you were living it ? 
Long lines of people waited to buy special souvenir World Series postcards with official postmarks . 
Thousands of us had paid $ 5 for the official souvenir book with its historical essays on Series trivia , its historical photographs of great moments in Series past , and its instructions , in English and Spanish , for filling in the scorecard . 
It must be a local custom , I thought , stamping feet to welcome the team . 
No one around me was saying anything . 
Sixty thousand surfers atop a concrete wall , waiting for the wipeout . 
When the swaying of the building woke me up , I reasoned that a -RRB- I was in Southern California ; b -RRB- the bed was moving ; c -RRB- it must be a Magic Fingers bed that had short-circuited . 
What should I do ? 
Fortunately , the quake was over before I managed to run out and stand naked on the hood . 
If I survived , I would have achieved every journalist 's highest wish . 
I was an eyewitness of the most newsworthy event on the planet at that moment . 
What was my angle ? 
The rest is , of course , history . 
The Stick did n't fall . 
The real tragedies occurred elsewhere , as we soon found out . 
A young mother found her boy , who had been out buying a hotdog . 
The wall behind me was slightly deformed , but the center had held . 
The crowd moved in clumps , clumps magnetized around an electronic nucleus . 
In this way , while the Stick itself was blacked out , we kept up to date on events . 
Within 15 minutes of the quake itself , I was able to see pictures of the collapsed section of the Bay Bridge . 
Increasingly accurate estimates of the severity of the quake became available before I got to my car . 
The reporters were victims and some of the victims turned into unofficial reporters . 
Marshall McLuhan , you should have been there at that hour . 
Rather than printing devils , Shearson puts all the blame on the unpredictable stock market . 
The plunge made Shearson 's market commentary instantly out of date . 
Shearson , a 62%-owned unit of American Express Co. , did n't have enough time to update its market commentary so , `` We decided to kill our strategy pieces , '' says Jack Rivkin , the head of Shearson 's research department . 
Investors recalled that Shearson last week had been advising that `` the market is still exhibiting all the signs of a further advance . '' 
Many other brokerage firms had similarly bullish views . 
With the market down , we wanted to tell people to put their orders in on the opening . '' 
Retail sales are plummeting , while consumer prices still are rising . 
`` The economy is crashing hard , '' says an Asian economist in Beijing . 
`` The slowdown is taking hold a lot more quickly and devastatingly than anyone had expected . '' 
Unless the government suddenly reverses course , wages for most workers wo n't keep pace with inflation , creating a potential source of urban unrest . 
-LRB- Industrial output surged 21 % in 1988 , while inflation peaked last February at nearly 30 % . -RRB- 
That would benefit Chinese enterprises as well as Sino-foreign joint ventures , both of which have been plagued by shortages of working capital . 
A dangerous buildup this year of billions of dollars in inter-company debts threatens , if unchecked , to bring the economy to a collapse . 
The cycle has been repeated several times since China began reforming its planned economy in 1979 . 
Output declined in several provinces , including Jiangsu and Zhejiang , two key coastal areas , and Sichuan , the nation 's agricultural breadbasket . 
Production in Shanghai , China 's industrial powerhouse and the largest source of tax revenue for the central government , fell 1.8 % for the month . 
`` This will prevent a slide in industrial production , which will otherwise cause new panic buyings , '' the spokesman said . 
Charitable groups are trying to reinstate the write-off for contributions made by individuals who do n't itemize their deductions . 
Big auction houses want to make collectibles eligible for lower capital-gains taxes . 
Adds Robert Juliano , the head lobbyist for a variety of interests that want to protect the tax deduction for travel and entertainment expenses : `` It appears as though the whole thing is wide open again . '' 
Other fundamental `` reforms '' of the 1986 act have been threatened as well . 
The House seriously considered raising the top tax rate paid by individuals with the highest incomes . 
The Senate Finance Committee voted to expand the deduction for individual retirement accounts , and also to bring back income averaging for farmers , a tax preference that allows income to be spread out over several years . 
The beneficiaries would range from pineapple growers to rich grandparents to tuxedo-rental shops . 
Other bills will be moving soon that are expected to carry many of the tax cuts , including both the capital-gains and IRA provisions . 
`` You 'll see the annual unraveling of it . '' 
Referring to the chairmen of the Senate and House tax-writing committees , he adds , `` Next year , every special-interest group is going to be there knocking on Lloyd Bentsen 's door , on Danny Rostenkowski 's door . '' 
Just last week , a House Ways and Means subcommittee held a lengthy meeting to hear the pleas of individual cities , companies and interest groups who want to open their own special loopholes . 
`` It 's a Swiss-cheese factory and the cheese smells pretty good , '' commented one veteran lobbyist who was watching the proceedings . 
The return of pro-investment tax breaks such as those for capital gains and IRAs `` creates more of a mood or a mindset that is helpful for getting better depreciation -LRB- write-offs -RRB- or investment credits , '' says Paul Huard , a vice president for the National Association of Manufacturers . 
Corporate lobbyist Charls Walker is planning a spring conference to discuss what tax changes to make to improve `` competitiveness . '' 
: It does n't include real-estate gains . 
`` If there is going to be a tax scheme that contemplates lower treatment of capital gains , they certainly want to be part of it , '' says real-estate lobbyist Wayne Thevenot of Concord Associates . 
; real-estate assets are included in the capital-gains provision . 
They have sent a letter to congressional tax-writers asking that gains from the sale of collectibles also be given preferential treatment . 
`` Collectibles should continue to be recognized as capital assets , '' the letter states . 
In exchange for dramatically lower tax rates , the framers of that legislation sought to eliminate most of the exemptions , deductions and credits that gave some taxpayers an advantage over others . 
The goal was to tax people with roughly equivalent incomes equally , and to eliminate the many shelters that allowed the wealthy to escape taxes . 
It appears likely that , this year or next , some form of capital-gains preference and passive-loss restoration will be enacted . 
Other tax benefits probably will be restored and created . 
The main obstacle is finding a way to pay for them . 
They wanted reform and they got a revolution , '' says overhaul advocate Rep. Willis Gradison -LRB- R. , Ohio -RRB- . 
One recent Saturday morning he stayed inside the Capitol monitoring tax-and-budget talks instead of flying to San Francisco for a fund-raiser and then to his hometown of Chicago for the 30th reunion of St. Ignatius High School . 
`` These days , anything can happen . 
When the champ has lost his stuff , the great mystery novelist wrote , `` when he can no longer throw the high hard one , he throws his heart instead . 
He throws something . 
He does n't just walk off the mound and weep . '' 
His last published novel featuring private detective Philip Marlowe , the inferior `` Playback '' -LRB- 1958 -RRB- , at times read almost like a parody of his previous work . 
When he died in 1959 , Chandler left behind four chapters of yet another Marlowe book , `` The Poodle Springs Story , '' which seemed to go beyond parody into something like burlesque . 
`` Champ '' Chandler 's last pitch , apparently , was a screwball . 
He wants to continue being a low-paid private eye , and she wants him to live off the million dollars she 's settled on him . 
The supporting lineup is solid , the patter is amusing and there 's even a cameo by Bernie Ohls , the `` good cop '' of previous Chandler books who still does n't hesitate to have Marlowe jailed when it suits his purposes . 
The style throughout bears a strong resemblance to Chandler 's prose at its most pared down . 
All told , Mr. Parker does a better job of making a novel out of this abandoned fragment than anyone might have had a right to expect . 
At one point , the reader is two steps ahead of Marlowe in catching on to a double identity scam -- and Marlowe is supposed to be the pro . 
More bothersome , there are several apparent anachronisms . 
Contact lenses , tank tops , prostitutes openly working the streets of Hollywood and the Tequila Sunrise cocktail all seem out of place in the 1950s . 
A little more care in re-creating Marlowe 's universe would have made the book that much more enjoyable . 
Today , he is publisher of Business Tokyo magazine , the first English-language business magazine devoted to coverage of Japanese business . 
While there are n't any major deals in the works currently on the scale of Sony Corp. 's recent $ 3.4 billion agreement to buy Columbia Pictures Entertainment Inc. , observers do n't rule out a transaction of that size . 
`` The Japanese take the long view . '' said Mr. Veronis . 
`` It may not be weeks or months , but they are also opportunistic and if they feel comfortable , they will move on a deal , '' he said . 
The magazine was overhauled with the aid of American magazine design gurus Milton Glaser and Walter Bernard , and targets top-level U.S. executives with Japanese and American advertisers . 
Susumu Ohara , president of Nihon Keizai Shinbun America Inc. , publisher of the Japan Economic Journal , said he receives telephone calls weekly from media bankers on whether his parent company is interested in buying a U.S. consumer or business magazine . 
Now they realize magazines are as much a franchise as Nabisco is a franchise . 
Denver-based U S West said net income dropped 8.9 % , noting that the year-ago quarter included the sale of a building by its BetaWest Properties unit . 
Revenue from business-telephone operations grew 3.3 % to $ 618.9 million from $ 599.4 million a year ago . 
Business lines increased 3.7 % to 3.3 million . 
`` The major negative factor was the cumulative impact of regulatory activity over the past two years . '' 
Revenue from financial and real-estate services jumped 23 % to $ 177.4 million from $ 144.1 million a year ago . 
Network-access revenue from long-distance telephone companies increased 6.4 % to $ 618.6 million . 
Nynex said expenses rose 4.5 % to $ 2.73 billion from $ 2.61 billion , a $ 119 million increase . 
Most of the higher costs were associated with acquisitions and growth in nonregulated business units , it added . 
`` This deviation from our past growth patterns is caused largely by lower earnings at New York Telephone . '' 
Nynex said access lines in service at the end of the quarter were off 18,000 from the previous quarter , which reported an increase of 160,000 new access lines . 
Pacific Telesis said new telephone lines increased 4.5 % for a total of about $ 13.5 million for the quarter ; toll calls increased 9.6 % to 807 million and minutes of telephone usage increased to 9.9 billion . 
; toll calls increased 9.6 % to 807 million and minutes of telephone usage increased to 9.9 billion . 
A spokesman said Amoco completed an environmental analysis last quarter but that no single clean-up project was responsible . 
Revenue in the latest quarter rose 12 % to $ 6.6 billion from $ 5.91 billion . 
Aside from the special charge , Amoco 's results were in line with Wall Street estimates . 
The company 's stock ended at $ 48.375 , up 25 cents in New York Stock Exchange composite trading . 
Analysts expect others to show a similar pattern . 
The industry 's chemical profits also declined because excess capacity has depressed prices . 
Gasoline margins may rebound this quarter , some industry officials say , but they believe chemical margins could worsen . 
Fina blamed lower chemical prices , reduced gasoline margins and refinery maintenance shutdowns . 
Sales rose 2.2 % to $ 711.9 million from $ 696.1 million . 
Chemical earnings declined by one-third to $ 120 million last year 's robust levels . 
Higher oil prices were n't enough to offset a roughly $ 20 million charge related to a 10 % reduction in Amoco 's Canadian work force as well as increased exploration expenses . 
Management Horizons forecasts a 1.4 % profit decline for non-auto retailers this year , after annual drops that averaged 4.5 % in 1988 and 1987 . 
`` For the last two and a half years , retailing has been in a mild recession , '' says Carl Steidtmann , chief economist at the Columbus , Ohio , consulting firm . 
: Bonwit Teller and B. Altman parent L.J. Hooker Corp. is operating under Chapter 11 of the federal Bankruptcy Code ; B.A.T Industries PLC 's healthy Saks Fifth Avenue and Marshall Field 's chains are on the auction block ; Campeau 's Bloomingdale 's is also on the block . 
; B.A.T Industries PLC 's healthy Saks Fifth Avenue and Marshall Field 's chains are on the auction block ; Campeau 's Bloomingdale 's is also on the block . 
Stores in a state of confusion are likely to fare poorly , and to lose customers to stable chains such as Limited Inc. , May Department Stores Co. and Dillard Department Stores Inc. , which should do well . 
Troubled chains could see their sales drop as much as 8 % , he believes , as managers distracted by fears about the future allow their stores to get sloppy . 
Thin merchandise selections at the most troubled chains are also expected to hurt sales . 
More than 200 catalog outfits are promoting a low-cost Federal Express service that guarantees pre-Christmas delivery of orders made by a certain date . 
Using Federal Express delivery last year , Mr. Strum says , `` December was our biggest month . '' 
He 's not predicting a blockbuster , but he is `` more optimistic than three months ago '' because employment remains strong and inflation low . 
Philip M. Hawley , chairman of Carter Hawley Hale Stores Inc. , expects sales at department stores open at least a year to rise a modest 3 % to 5 % over last year 's totals , both for his company and the industry in general . 
`` I 'm not looking for a runaway Christmas at all , '' he says . 
Mr. Sells expects fourth-quarter sales at his company -- which besides Woolworth stores includes Kinney and Foot Locker shoe stores and other specialty chains -- to rise `` pretty much in line '' with its year-to-date increases of between 8 % and 9 % . 
Of the 450 survey respondents , 35 % said they expect to spend less buying Christmas gifts this year than last year , while 28 % said they expect to spend more and 37 % said their gift budget would stay the same . 
Christmas falls on a Monday , creating a big last-minute weekend opportunity for stores . 
Most will stay open late Saturday night and open their doors again Sunday . 
`` What you 'll hear as we get into December is that sales are sluggish , '' predicts Woolworth 's Mr. Sells . 
`` The week ending the 24th is going to save the entire month for everyone . 
In Spain , anyway , the 73-year-old Mr. Cela enjoys some renown for the novels and travel books he wrote during the parched Franco years , the everyday poverty and stagnant atmosphere of which he described in brutally direct , vivid prose , beginning with `` The Family of Pascal Duarte '' -LRB- 1942 -RRB- . 
The lucky ones gaze out at life with serene eyes and smile with a face of innocence at their perfumed happiness . The others endure the hot sun of the plains and scowl like cornered wild beasts . '' 
The others endure the hot sun of the plains and scowl like cornered wild beasts . '' 
The man who wore out his shoes wandering around Guadalajara in 1958 , describing in his travel book `` Viaje a la Alcarria '' how he scrounged for food and stayed in squalid inns , now tours Spain in a Rolls-Royce . 
Two men have a conversation behind one of the windows of the cafe on the corner of the boulevard . 
It does not matter if one is defeated , provided the work that gets the award has unmistakable qualities . 
What 's so discouraging is ... '' 
For fiscal 1988 , Ashland had net of $ 224 million , or $ 4.01 a share , on revenue of $ 7.8 billion . 
It originates in a Bush administration decision not to antagonize the U.S. Congress and avoid , at all costs , being accused of meddling in the region . 
The result has been a dangerous vacuum of U.S. leadership , which leaves Central America open to Soviet adventurism . 
`` The -LCB- influence of the -RCB- U.S. is not being felt in Central America ; Washington 's decisions do not respond to a policy , and are divorced from reality , '' says Fernando Volio , a Costa Rican congressman and former foreign minister . 
; Washington 's decisions do not respond to a policy , and are divorced from reality , '' says Fernando Volio , a Costa Rican congressman and former foreign minister . 
Faced with this embarrassment , U.S. diplomats expressed confidence that the influential Rio Group of South American nations , which gathered last week in Peru , would take a stronger posture toward the Panamanian dictator . 
; he was not even singled out in the closing statement . 
Formally upgrading the Sandinistas to a democratic status was an initiative harshly criticized in the Costa Rican press . 
Even Carlos Manuel Castillo -- the presidential candidate for Mr. Arias 's National Liberation Party -- made public his opposition to the presence of Nicaragua `` in a democratic festivity . '' 
According to officials in Washington , the State Department hoped that by pleasing President Arias , it would gain his support to postpone any decision on the Contras until after Mr. Ortega 's promises of democratic elections were tested next February . 
Visiting Nicaragua , he praised the Sandinistas for their electoral system and chided the Bush administration for not rewarding the Sandinistas . 
In Honduras , where the Contras are a hot political issue , he promised to help unblock some $ 70 million in assistance withheld due to the failure of local agencies to comply with conditions agreed upon with Washington . 
; Mr. Cristiani 's government is very much at the mercy of U.S. largess and is forced to listen very carefully to Sen. Dodd 's likes and dislikes . 
Fittingly , the Tela Accords were nicknamed by Hondurans `` the Dodd plan . '' 
On Oct. 3 , following conversations with Secretary of State James Baker , Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze arrived in Managua to acclaim `` Nicaragua 's great peace efforts . '' 
: The U.S.S.R. would prolong a suspension of arms shipments to Nicaragua after the February election if the U.S. did likewise with its allies in Central America . 
The Pentagon claims that in spite of Moscow 's words , East bloc weapons continue to flow into Nicaragua through Cuba at near-record levels . 
This scheme would fit the Arias Plan , which declared a false symmetry between Soviet military aid to the Sandinista dictatorship and that provided by Washington to freely elected governments . 
In 1984 , the Costa Rican government requested help to establish a radio station in the northern part of the country , flooded by airwaves of Sandinista propaganda . 
Recovering radiophonic sovereignty was the purpose of Radio Costa Rica , funded by the U.S. and affiliated with the Voice of America -LRB- VOA -RRB- . 
According to news reports , the abrupt termination was due to fears that VOA transmissions could interfere with the peace process . 
Perhaps its loud signal may generate some awareness of the Soviet condominium being created in the isthmus thanks to U.S. default . 
A poll conducted in July by a Gallup affiliate showed that 64 % of Costa Ricans believe that if their country is militarily attacked by either Nicaragua or Panama , the U.S. will come to its defense . 
Results for the quarter included $ 19.2 million in pretax gains from property transactions , including the sale of one Embassy Suites hotel , and $ 3.5 million of nonrecurring costs associated with the acquisition of the Holiday Inn business by Bass . 
Revenue dropped 1.6 % to $ 1.21 billion from $ 1.23 billion . 
In effect , Holiday is asking holders for permission for Bass to buy their debt . 
MCA owns WWOR in New York and Paramount last month agreed to purchase a 79 % stake in the TVX Broadcast Group from Salomon Inc. in a deal valued at $ 140 million . 
TVX owns five stations , including WTXF , a Fox affiliate , in Philadelphia . 
`` To make the venture work , they would need Fox affiliates , '' he said . 
`` We spent a lot of time and money in building our group of stations , '' he said , adding that Fox does n't `` appreciate '' another company attempting to usurp its station lineup . 
A Chris-Craft station manager said there have been no formal talks . 
Mr. Conway said the Fox shows appearing on nights when Paramount-MCA shows would n't be offered could be promoted on the programs produced by Paramount-MCA . 
Why would I consider giving up Fox , a proven commodity , '' for an unknown venture ? It is n't ... . 
The primary subsidiary will be the combined banking operations of the two companies and will be known as Banco Popular de Puerto Rico . 
BanPonce reacted cooly at first , but appeared to be won over , analysts said , by Banco Popular 's assurances that it wanted only a friendly transaction . 
`` They got a transaction that 's good for both companies . '' 
BanPonce caters to a more affluent customer , while Banco Popular has always had a large presence among middle-income and lower-income markets . 
`` They 're often right across the street from one another , '' Mr. Thompson said . 
Mr. Carrion , who will now serve as president and chief executive officer of the subsidiary bank , added : `` We 'll be able to better compete with large foreign banks . 
It makes sense from a strategic standpoint . '' 
Mr. Carrion said the merger should be completed in six to nine months . 
Sales dropped 6 % to $ 2.58 billion from $ 2.74 billion , reflecting eight fewer business days in the latest quarter . 
It did n't say by how much . 
Sales rose to $ 8.19 billion from $ 7.65 billion . 
Proceeds will help pay for a planned buy-back of 10 % , or about 153 million , of its shares and a 50 % dividend increase . 
The company said it acquired 2.5 million shares for 785 pence -LRB- $ 12.48 -RRB- each , or a total of # 19.6 million -LRB- $ 31.2 million -RRB- , from its broker , Barclays de Zoete Wedd . 
Before the recent tumult in global financial markets , B.A.T officials , holders and analysts had expected a substantial part of the restructuring to be complete by the end of the first half . 
`` This is n't a distress sale . 
We are determined to get good prices . '' 
The Anglo-French financier has indicated he intends to bid again for B.A.T if he receives approval . 
Revenue rose to $ 403 million from $ 368.4 million . 
Alan G. Hassenfeld , chairman and chief executive , added that Hasbro 's new line of battery-powered racing cars , called Record Breakers , and its acquisition of Cabbage Patch Kids , Scrabble and other lines from Coleco Industries Inc. puts the company `` in a good position as we enter the Christmas buying season . '' 
Sales declined 3 % to $ 524.5 million from $ 539.4 million . 
Pitney Bowes acquired the core of what evolved into Wheeler Group in 1979 by buying Dictaphone Corp . 
Revenue grew 13 % to $ 734.8 million from $ 650.9 million . 
Giant yellow cranes were wheeled up alongside the collapsed segment , preparing to lift off chunks of the debris . 
The Cypress reinforcement project itself was part of an annual effort to shore up structures believed vulnerable to earthquakes . 
After completing installation of the jackets on `` one frame '' of the freeway last year , the state DOT had sent the project over to its Sacramento engineers to draw up a final design . 
The procedure involves encasing the concrete columns with steel , then connecting them more securely to the double-decker roadbed . 
One preliminary estimate put the retrofitting cost at as much as $ 50 million . 
Gov. George Deukmejian , who said he had been assured by state transportation officials that the structure could withstand an even larger quake , called for an immediate investigation . 
He said he would convene hearings within two weeks . 
The northern piers of the span lie in estuarian deposits that were of a type to have liquefied easily during the 1906 quake . 
They said previous earthquakes suggested that multiple-column viaducts would stand up well , although they were working on ways to bolster them . 
Both hope to encourage pressure for change in East bloc countries still ruled by Stalinist holdouts by arranging liberal financial aid and trade benefits for Poland , Hungary and , to a lesser extent , the Soviet Union . 
The ultimate aim of Western support for East bloc reforms , he said , is to create `` an equitable and stable peaceful order in Europe from the Atlantic to the Urals . '' 
The package was brought to the House just 15 days after it was introduced , indicating Congress 's eagerness to reward Poland and Hungary for their moves toward democracy and freemarket economic reforms . 
The Polish fund would be seeded with $ 160 million , the Hungarian fund with $ 40 million . 
Last week , Bonn agreed to reschedule 2.5 billion marks in Polish debt that came due last year . 
An additional 500 million marks in credit-backing was promised by the West German state governments of Bavaria and Baden-Wuerttemberg . 
A maxim of Frankfurt banking holds that wherever Deutsche Bank goes , other West German banks follow . 
Revenue rose 25 % , to $ 877.6 million , from $ 702.4 million . 
The charge did n't affect net for the quarter as it was offset by tax benefits . 
: Sometimes it forces them to make choices . 
Now that the Supreme Court opened the door on the subject of abortion , politicians are squinting under the glare of democratic choice . 
Their discomfort is a healthy sign for the rest of us . 
So long as abortion was a question for litigation , not legislation , Republicans could find political security in absolutism . 
They could attract one-issue voters by adopting the right-to-life movement 's strongest position , even as pro-choice Republicans knew this mattered little on an issue monopolized by the court . 
Now it matters . 
Only a month ago he 'd warned Congress not to pass legislation to pay for abortions in cases of rape or incest . Last Friday , after Congress passed it anyway , he hinted he was looking for compromise . 
Last Friday , after Congress passed it anyway , he hinted he was looking for compromise . 
Was the man who once was pro-choice , but later pro-life , converting again ? 
Pro-life advocates say the White House never wavered over the veto . 
Christopher Smith -LRB- R. , N.J. -RRB- , a pro-life leader in the House , suggested a compromise that would have adapted restrictive language from rape and incest exceptions in the states . 
Amid charges of `` timidity '' on Panama and elsewhere , the president was n't about to offend his most energetic constituency . 
In last week 's House vote , 41 Republicans defected . 
After the vote , Connecticut Rep. Nancy Johnson rounded up nearly as many signatures on a letter to Mr. Bush urging him not to veto . 
Even such a pro-life stalwart as Sen. Orrin Hatch -LRB- R. , Utah -RRB- had counseled some kind of compromise . 
The Senate passed the same bill yesterday , with a veto-proof majority of 67 . 
At the 1988 GOP convention , abortion was barely discussed at all , though delegates were evenly divided on the question of an anti-abortion constitutional amendment . 
Ms. Johnson made a passionate statement to the platform committee , but she was talking to herself . 
They 're frightened by what they see in New Jersey , and especially Virginia , where pro-life GOP candidates for governor are being pummeled on abortion . 
Eddie Mahe , a Republican consultant , says the two GOP candidates could have avoided trouble if they had framed the issue first . 
GOP pollster Neil Newhouse , of the Wirthlin Group , says polls this summer showed that the single-issue voters had about evened out . 
It 's already that in the Bush administration , at least for any job in which abortion is even remotely an issue . 
Caldwell Butler , a conservative former congressman , was barred from a Legal Services post , after he gave wrong answers on abortion . 
Even the president 's doctor , Burton Lee , has said on the record that he 'd love to be surgeon general but could n't pass the pro-life test . 
After Mr. Sullivan waffled on abortion last year , the White House appeased right-to-lifers by surrounding him with pro-life deputies . 
Their views on health care and welfare did n't much matter , though HHS spends billions a year on both . 
It makes only a handful of abortion-related decisions . 
On abortion , their own day will come . 
Eventually even Republicans will find a way to frame the issue in ways that expose pro-choice absolutism . 
Does the candidate favor parental consent for teen-age abortions ? 
Roe v. Wade pre-empted political debate , so the extremes blossomed . 
Now the ambivalent middle , a moral majority of sorts , is reasserting itself . 
Within a few years , the outcome in most states is likely to be that abortion will be more restricted , but not completely banned . 
This is where the voters are , which is where politicians usually end up . 
Excluding earnings from discontinued operations a year earlier , net fell only 2 % . 
In the 1988 third quarter , profit from continuing operations totaled $ 140.1 million . 
A year earlier , the company had profit from discontinued operations of $ 24.9 million from sale of a pipeline , a refinery and an interest in a second refinery . 
Most of the commodity traffic was off , the company said . 
It added that higher revenue , strong crude oil prices and higher natural gas prices offset declines in production of oil , gas and plant liquids . 
Before good will , Overnite Transportation earnings fell 11 % to $ 15 million , Union Pacific said . 
Profit from continuing operations in the year-earlier period was $ 402.7 million . 
Revenue was $ 4.75 billion , up 6 % from $ 4.49 billion . 
The FTC first issued an administrative complaint in the case in 1985 . 
`` I expect all the companies to appeal , '' he added . 
Mark , an oil and gas concern , said the 15-year debentures are convertible before maturity at C$ 12.50 for each Mark common share , and can be redeemed at the company 's option , under certain conditions , after Nov. 30 , 1992 . 
It includes apartments , shopping centers , office buildings and undeveloped land . 
FADA , which holds problem assets of thrifts that were closed before the bailout legislation was enacted , is being liquidated . 
`` You need to buy the entire lot , '' Mr. Seidman said , `` so get out your checkbooks . 
Serial bonds were priced to yield to 6.75 % in 2000 . 
Bonds due 1991-1996 carry 6.70 % coupons and bonds due 1997-2000 carry 6 3\/4 % coupons . 
Term bonds due 2010 are 7.10 % securities priced at par . 
The debentures mature Oct. 27 , 1999 . 
Now they plan to sell us products that sift through all the information to give us what we really want to know . 
`` Most people read 10 times more than necessary in order to find out what they really need . '' 
Mr. Goodfellow has started a Menlo Park , Calif. , company called Anterior Technology that provides human editors for public electronic networks . 
`` I see it as a sewage treatment plant , '' he says . 
The product , developed by Desktop Data Corp. , a new company based in Waltham , Mass. , scans the wires looking for articles that contain key words specified by the user . 
He says he told NewsEdge to look for stories containing such words as takeover , acquisition , acquire , LBO , tender , merger , junk and halted . 
`` I 'm pretty confident I 'm catching everything , '' he says . 
Jeffrey Tarter , editor of SoftLetter , a Watertown , Mass. , industry newsletter , says : `` I 've seen a lot of people fooling around on the fringes of filtering information . 
This is the first time I 've seen something I could imagine a lot of people using . '' 
George Goodwin , an account manager at Royal Bank of Canada , adapted a Lotus Development Corp. program called Agenda to sort through international news wires . 
It automatically selects stories from particular countries for reading by the international bankers responsible for lending in those areas . 
`` They want the full press releases on printer announcements by their competition , '' Mr. Amram says . 
If a customer asks for stories about `` IBM , '' the computer will also supply stories that mention `` I.B.M. , International Business Machines , or Big Blue , '' Mr. Amram says . 
It compares the position of key words in the story ; words in the headline or first paragraph get a higher value . 
; words in the headline or first paragraph get a higher value . 
The higher the ratio of hits to total words , the higher the presumed value to the reader . 
`` The computers find all the key words they can , but the editors confirm every one . 
Computer picking is n't perfect , '' says Harvey Golomb , president and founder of Pinpoint . 
; each newsletter is sent directly from the computer to the subscriber 's fax machine . 
Mr. Digate says his firm , Beyond Inc. , has licensed technology known as Information Lens from Massachusetts Institute of Technology and plans to develop it for commercial use . 
Mr. Digate says that Beyond will refine the product `` so the message will be smart enough to know to come back and bother you again next week . '' 
Notes , which is designed for advanced computers that display graphics , allows mail senders to put different logos on their mail . 
`` With Notes , they 're visually distinct . 
; in August it paid $ 666,666 in back pay and a bonus to a former corporate-bond trading chief , Harold Bachman . 
For distilled spirits , operating profit rose 36 % , to $ 24.8 million . 
The year-earlier period included $ 40.1 million , or 41 cents a share , from discontinued operations . 
Revenue rose to $ 9.03 billion from $ 8.98 billion . 
He is under intense fire from other Palestinian groups ; Syria is pushing Ahmad Jibril , whose terrorist band is blamed for the Pan Am 103 bombing , as an alternative to Arafat . 
; Syria is pushing Ahmad Jibril , whose terrorist band is blamed for the Pan Am 103 bombing , as an alternative to Arafat . 
Darman now blames the clash on miscommunication , but House GOP leader Michel , who carried the offer to him , observes , `` I was speaking English at the time , and quite loud so I could be understood . '' 
Democratic counterpart Mitchell , asked to interpret Darman 's threat to make permanent the across-the-board Gramm-Rudman cuts that took effect this week , says , `` I do n't even bother to interpret them . '' 
`` If I can show signs of maturity , almost anybody can , '' he jokes . 
; the U.S. and West Germany have each withdrawn from missile projects . 
Defense experts say joint projects are increasingly squeezed by budget pressures and the desire to save domestic jobs ; some also fear rising protectionism as European unity nears . 
Though she opposes abortion in almost all cases , she airs a TV commercial using pro-choice buzzwords . 
`` A woman ought to have a choice in cases where her life or health are in danger and in cases of rape or incest , '' she proclaims . 
The announcement boosted the charter-shipping company 's shares , which closed at $ 15.125 , up $ 1.25 a share , in composite trading on the American Stock Exchange . 
; the amount may vary from quarter to quarter . 
Now that a key member of the San Diego Yacht Club team is splitting off to form his own team , even more competition lies ahead . 
His steering committee includes other notable businessmen , including the California investor and old salt Roy E. Disney . 
Now , the first order of business is raising enough money to keep his team afloat -- a new yacht will cost about $ 3 million alone , and sailing syndicate budgets can easily run to $ 25 million for a Cup challenge . 
In September , a New York appellate court overturned a state judge 's ruling that awarded the Cup to the New Zealand team . 
The Conner team wo n't be able to negotiate with corporate sponsors until the suit is resolved and the race site is determined , Mr. Smith said , and the syndicate 's budget could easily reach $ 30 million . 
Mr. Smith and a spokesman for the America 's Cup Organizing Committee insist that the added competition for the defender 's spot will only improve the race . 
On my four-mile drive to farm headquarters each morning , I drive by another four empty houses . 
Apparently the officials did n't even know the mural was missing until 1980 , when a researcher found that the painting was in Mr. Hoelzer 's studio and questioned school officials about it . 
The judge ordered that a hearing be held Nov. 17 to determine how much the city should pay Mr. Hoelzer for his services . 
She said the mural `` preserves an era in Stamford and in our country when this type of work was being done . 
That pace is causing some analysts to speculate that the Soviet Union might soon purchase as much as another two million metric tons . 
That sometimes signals that they are laying plans to export corn . 
Among other things , the Agriculture Department is widely thought to be mulling whether to subsidize the sale of soybean oil to the Soviet Union . 
Balmy temperatures are forecast for next week , said Robert Lekberg , an analyst at Farmers Grain & Livestock Corp. , Chicago . 
The heavy selling by farmers helped to damp the price rally . 
A number of developments were negatively interpreted by traders . 
December delivery gold fell $ 1.80 an ounce to $ 370.60 . 
December silver eased 2.7 cents an ounce to $ 5.133 . 
January platinum was down $ 3.60 an ounce at $ 491.10 . 
Other news that weighed on the market : Initial unemployment claims rose by 62,000 last week ; American Telephone & Telegraph Co. will reduce its managerial staff by 15,000 through attrition ; the oil market turned weaker ; there was n't any investor demand for bullion ; and the dollar strengthened during the day , putting pressure on gold . 
; the oil market turned weaker ; there was n't any investor demand for bullion ; and the dollar strengthened during the day , putting pressure on gold . 
; there was n't any investor demand for bullion ; and the dollar strengthened during the day , putting pressure on gold . 
Both are in great need of foreign exchange , and South Africa is also under pressure to meet foreign loan commitments , he said . 
`` Putting it all together , we have a negative scenario that does n't look like it will improve overnight , '' he said . 
The December contract rose 1.50 cents a pound to $ 1.2795 . 
Some of this buying was by Japan , which has had its supplies sharply reduced by long production stoppages at the Bougainville mine in Papua New Guinea , Highland Valley mine in British Columbia , and the Cananea mine in Mexico , which are major shippers to Japan . 
The increasing likelihood that Cananea and Highland Valley will soon return to production may have cut some of that purchasing , but even if any of these mines begin operating soon , their output wo n't be significant until at least the end of the year , analysts note . 
West Texas Intermediate for November delivery fell 14 cents a barrel to $ 20.42 . 
Most energy futures opened lower , following Wednesday 's market downturn . 
Heating oil and gasoline futures ended higher as well . 
Suits are likely to be filed against engineering firms , contractors and developers , as well as against local-government agencies . 
Experts on California tort law say protections afforded government agencies in such cases are pretty ironclad . 
Even claims against individuals and companies face significant roadblocks . 
The major legal barrier is the principle that no one can be held liable for an `` act of God . '' 
We still have people wandering around in a daze in San Francisco worrying about whether it 's going to rain tonight . '' 
In San Francisco , they argue , an earthquake was a near certainty . 
From what he saw on television , Mr. Chesley points out that Interstate 880 , which collapsed and killed more than 200 commuters , suffered serious damage while surrounding buildings appeared to sustain no damage whatsoever . 
He adds that `` they were aware of the propensity for earthquakes and the San Andreas Fault . '' 
`` We wo n't know until the smoke clears -- but yes , we 're looking into it , '' he says . 
Mr. Belli , who was at Candlestick Park for the World Series Tuesday night , says he has hired civil engineers to check out his own mildly damaged building and to investigate the bridge collapse . 
`` A lot of this is going to be code-related , '' says Ignazio J. Ruvolo , a construction law specialist at Bronson , Bronson & McKinnon , a San Francisco law firm . 
Plaintiffs , he says , will argue that damaged structures were n't built to proper design standards . 
Under the statute , agencies are provided `` defenses that normally are n't available in the private sector , '' Mr. Ruvolo says . 
`` The legislature does not want to inhibit the unique government activities by exposing public entities to liability . '' 
The state is protected when plans and designs for public structures were approved ahead of time or when structures met previously approved standards , says Mr. Covert . 
He believes those defenses might well apply to the Bay Bridge collapse . 
Mr. Covert had to search through law books scattered on the floor of his office yesterday , and Mr. Belli 's courtyard was strewn with bricks . 
Wednesday , Mr. Belli 's staff was n't permitted into his office by city officials worried about their safety . 
He said he set up shop on the sidewalk in front of his town-house office and helped victims apply for federal aid -- free of charge . 
The association said it would monitor the conduct of lawyers and warned that solicitation of business is unethical . 
The British Deloitte firm recently withdrew from the merger of Deloitte and Touche world-wide and joined Coopers & Lybrand . 
Mr. Bullock said the British firm has used the name `` Deloitte '' since 1845 . 
In the U.S. , Deloitte , Haskins & Sells was known as Haskins & Sells until 1978 , when it added the `` Deloitte '' name of its British affiliate . 
Although accountants are n't noted as `` being deeply emotional , they really hold it all in , '' said Mr. Burton , former chief accountant of the Securities and Exchange Commission . 
Mr. Cook said that last June , the international executive committes of Deloitte and Touche agreed to a world-wide merger . 
In England , this would mean that the British Deloitte would lose revenue for its audit of GM 's Vauxhill unit . 
Although Coopers has n't been courted by other major accounting firms for a merger , it is benefiting greatly from fallout from the Deloitte-Touche merger . 
Without more space to incarcerate convicted criminals , he added , `` we will not win the war on drugs . '' 
The prisons are too crowded . 
Drugs continue to be sold openly around schools , parks and housing projects . '' 
Referring to Mr. Bennett 's claim that the federal government would provide $ 97 million in emergency federal support , Ms. Thompson wrote , `` Our analysis was unable to even come close to documenting that figure . '' 
The Defense Department has lent the Washington U.S. attorney 10 prosecutors , and the Federal Bureau of Investigation has provided crime laboratory facilities and training , he added . 
Some , particularly in West Coast earthquake zones , are dusting off their evacuation plans , checking food stocks and reminding employees of what to do if emergency strikes . 
Others say they feel confident that steps they 've already taken would see them through a disaster . 
Some big companies have teams of in-house experts focusing on safety and business resumption . 
Many companies in the path of potential disaster have set up contingency offices in safe regions , hoping they can transport employees there and resume operations quickly . 
That means making sure that copies of vital computer software and company records are out of harm 's way . 
`` If you do n't save your critical people , you wo n't be able to bring up your vital business functions . '' 
`` It was a good reminder that we all need to prepare prior to an event . '' 
Among the suggestions : Pantyhose and men 's ties could be used for slings , while removable wooden shelves might aid in `` breaking through office walls . '' 
Two months ago the company set up a toll-free number , based outside California , to handle queries from employees about when they should report back to work after an earthquake or other disaster . 
This way , depending on when a quake might strike , priorities can be assigned to departments that should be brought back on line first . 
`` We were talking about scheduling a practice drill for November , '' says Joan Tharp , a spokeswoman . 
Sales and service employees were asked to report to work to help Bay area clients who called with computer problems . 
`` That means we can accept orders '' and begin getting back to normal , says Ms. Tharp . 
Occidental Petroleum Corp. holds regular evacuation drills and stocks food , oxygen and non-prescription drugs at checkpoints in its 16-story headquarters . 
The centers are complete with maps detailing utility lines beneath rides and `` safe havens '' where people can be assembled away from major structures . 
Hurricane Hugo , an Atlantic storm , did n't affect Vista . 
The company does n't wait until the final hours to get ready for hurricanes . 
`` There are just tons of things that have to be considered , '' Mr. Fogg says . 
`` Empty tank cars will float away on you if you get a big tidal surge . '' 
`` With a hurricane you know it 's coming . 
You have time to put precautionary mechanisms in place , '' notes a Vista spokeswoman . 
`` A situation like San Francisco is so frightening because there 's no warning . 
As part of the agreement , Mr. Gaubert contributed real estate valued at $ 25 million to the assets of Independent American . 
`` It may depend on whether there was an express or implied promise ... that the federal officials would not negligently cause the deterioration '' of Independent American , the court wrote . 
`` I do n't know if this will affect one institution or a hundred , '' Mr. Lowell says . 
`` It does establish a very clear precedent for suing the FHLBB where there was none before . '' 
The suit , which seeks compensatory and punitive damages of $ 1 million , alleges that the firing of Marcia Trees Levine violated New York state 's human-rights law . 
Among other things , the law prohibits discrimination on the basis of sex and pregnancy . 
; a month later , the suit says , the restaurant manager told Ms. Levine that she would be demoted to his assistant because he felt customers would be uncomfortable with a pregnant maitre 'd . 
They told her , ` We do n't hire fat people and we do n't hire cripples . 
He said Ms. Levine had never been fired , although she had stopped working at the restaurant . 
`` The Odeon made a written offer to Marcia Levine on July 10 to return to work as the maitre 'd , at the same pay , same hours and with back pay accrued , '' he said . 
The trial of the case lasted seven months and ended in September with a hung jury . 
Some of the lawyers say they would continue to represent their clients if the government pays their tab as court-appointed lawyers . 
Sen. Arlen Specter -LRB- R. , Pa . -RRB- urged acquittal of the judge in a brief circulated to his Senate colleagues during closed-door deliberations . 
Among other things , the brief cited insufficient evidence . 
Five of the partners -- James W. Morris , Philip B. Morris , Robert M. White , Ann Adams Webster and Jacqueline G. Epps -- are opening a boutique in Richmond to concentrate on corporate defense litigation , particularly in product liability cases . 
The sixth partner , John H. OBrion , Jr. , is joining Cowan & Owen , a smaller firm outside Richmond . 
The decline reflected the expense of buying three magazines , lower earnings from the forest-products group , and what is proving to be a nagging major problem , continued declines in advertising linage at the New York Times , the company 's flagship daily newspaper . 
Retail advertising , which often represents half of the advertising volume at most daily newspapers , largely is n't rebounding in the second half from extended doldrums as expected . 
Dow Jones & Co. recently reported net fell 9.9 % , a reflection , in part , of continued softness in financial advertising at The Wall Street Journal and Barron 's magazine . 
`` Next year , earnings will hold steady , but we just do n't see a big turnaround in the trend in advertising . '' 
It will be hard to do handstands until real linage starts heading back up . '' 
Mr. Sulzberger said the scheduled opening of a new color-printing plant in Edison , N.J. , in 1990 would involve heavy startup and depreciation costs . 
, which consists of the Times , 35 regional newspapers and a one-third interest in the International Herald Tribune ; group operating profit for the quarter increased slightly to $ 34.9 million from $ 34.5 million on flat revenue . 
That 's a good sign when profits are stable during a time revenue is in the trough . 
This news raised hopes for further interest-rate cuts . 
Treasury-bond prices immediately rallied , setting the stock market rolling from the opening bell . 
That brought the average 's cumulative gain this week to about 114 points . 
The Nasdaq Composite Index soared 7.52 , or 1.6 % , to 470.80 , its highest one-day jump in points this year . 
Among the biggest winners were brokerage-house stocks , responding to heavy trading volume . 
Economists expected twice as large an increase . 
`` I see a lot of evidence indicating a slower economy , and that means my interest-rate outlook has a downward tilt , '' said Garnett L. Keith Jr. , vice chairman of Prudential Insurance Co. of America , one of the nation 's largest institutional investors . 
Fed officials probably wo n't drive down rates immediately , Mr. Keith said . 
Despite the inflation news , several Fed officials still fear consumer-price pressures will intensify because they insist the economy is stronger than generally believed . 
If so , that will cinch the case for another shot of credit-easing within a month or so . 
This phenomenon often makes stock prices swing wildly at the end of the trading session . 
Volume on the New York Stock Exchange rose to 198.1 million shares from 166.9 million Wednesday . 
But it fell to 1.8470 marks from 1.8485 . In New York late yesterday , it was at 141.70 yen , up from 141.45 yen late Wednesday . 
In only one presidential election year prior to 1948 did more than 20 % of the nation 's congressional districts choose a different party 's candidate for the White House than for the House of Representatives . Now that percentage routinely equals a third and twice has been above 40 % . 
Now that percentage routinely equals a third and twice has been above 40 % . 
In every presidential election over the past half century , except for the Goldwater presidential candidacy , the GOP has captured a greater percentage of the major-party popular vote for president than it has of congressional seats or the popular vote for Congress . 
Prior to 1932 , the pattern was nearly the opposite . 
If they put a Republican into office , not only will they acquire less in terms of local benefits but their selected legislator will be relatively powerless to prevent other legislators from `` bringing home the bacon '' to their respective constituencies . 
Each legislator , after all , is only one out of 535 when it comes to national policy making . 
Although a GOP president may limit local benefits to the voter 's particular district\/state , such a president is also likely to be more effective at preventing other districts\/states and their legislators from bringing home the local benefits . 
The individual voter 's standing consequently will be enhanced through lower taxes . 
: Any individual legislator 's constituents appreciate the specific benefits that the legislator wins for them but not the overall cost associated with every other legislator doing likewise for his own constituency . 
The one exception to this recent trend was the defeat of 13 of the 52 freshman Republicans brought into office in 1980 by the Reagan revolution and running for re-election in 1982 . 
Because these freshmen placed far more emphasis on their partisan role -- spreading the Reagan revolution -- in national policy making , they were more vulnerable to defeat . 
Potential candidates may be discouraged from running less by the congressional salary than by the prospect of defeat at the hands of a Democratic opponent . 
To the extent that potential Republican candidates and their financial backers realize that the congressional prisoner 's dilemma game works to their disadvantage , the Republican Party will be hindered in its attempts to field a competitive slate of congressional candidates . 
To the extent that Democratic legislators from the South have held a disproportionate share of power in Congress since 1932 and have been able to translate such clout into relatively more local benefits for their respective constituencies , voters in the South have had an especially strong incentive to keep such Democrats in office . 
Since local benefit-seeking matters more and national policy making matters less in the lower chamber of Congress , this is precisely the pattern one would expect if Republicans are less willing to engage in local benefit-seeking than their Democratic counterparts . 
To the extent that the primary duty of personal staff involves local benefit-seeking , this indicates that political philosophy leads congressional Republicans to pay less attention to narrow constituent concerns . 
The Democratic House attendance rate has not exceeded the Republican House attendance rate since 1959 . 
Put more simply , GOP candidates for president are looked on more kindly by voters than Republican candidates for the Senate when the prisoner 's dilemma is more severe . 
State government is more typically split along Republican-governor\/Democratic-legislature lines than the reverse . 
Final approval was on a 67-31 roll call in the Senate , which sets the stage for a veto confrontation with Mr. Bush over the issue of publicly financed abortions for poor women . 
Mr. Bush 's veto power puts him a commanding position in the narrowly divided House , but a vote to override his position could well pick up new support because of the wealth of health and education programs financed in the underlying bill . 
An estimated $ 1.32 billion is provided for next year 's census , and negotiators stripped a Senate-passed rider seeking to block the counting of illegal aliens . 
In an unprecedented step , the measure anticipates another $ 30 million in receipts by having the Federal Bureau of Investigation charge for fingerprint services in civil cases -- a change that is almost certain to increase Pentagon costs in processing personnel and security clearances . 
Lawmakers scrapped all of a $ 7.4 million State Department request for the 1992 Expo in Seville , Spain , but agreed elsewhere to $ 15,000 for an oil portrait of former Chief Justice Warren Burger . 
His Republican counterpart , Sen. Warren Rudman -LRB- R. , N.H. -RRB- , has used his position to wage a legislative war with the conservative board of the Legal Services Corp . 
The effective date of any new regulations by the current board would be delayed until Oct. 1 next year , and the bill seeks to reverse efforts by the corporation to cut off funds to service organizations such as the Food Research and Action Center . 
Both accounts reflect significant increases from fiscal 1989 , although the amount for peace-keeping shows a 27 % cut from the administration 's request . 
The Members know they 're doing wrong , but they need help to restrain their darker compulsions . 
It was nothing more or nothing less than a feeding frenzy . '' 
`` As I was driving home , I did not feel very good about myself . '' 
A good place to start the rehabilitation is a `` legislative line-item veto '' bill now being offered by Indiana Senator Dan Coats . 
Congress would have 20 days to reject the package with a 50 % majority , but then a President could veto that rejection . 
Before 1974 , a President could `` impound , '' or refuse to spend , funds appropriated by Congress . 
Presidents Kennedy and Johnson were both big users of the impoundment power , but Congress saw its chance against a weakened President Nixon and stripped it away . 
This is like asking foxes to feel remorse about chickens , and naturally rescissions are almost never approved . 
In 1987 , President Reagan sent 73 rescissions back to the Hill , but only 3 % of the spending total was approved by Congress . 
Senator Coats 's proposal would let the proposed spending cuts take place automatically unless Congress acts . 
The Members could still try to serve their constituents with special-interest goodies , but the police -LRB- in the form of a President -RRB- would be there with a straitjacket if they really get crazy , as they do now . 
We 're told Senator Pryor is n't yet a co-sponsor , but if he and his colleagues are serious about kicking their compulsions , they 'll sign up . 
`` It 's impossible to put an exact figure on it at this time . '' 
One of the last big employers in the Silicon Valley to report in , Seagate Technology , said it expects to be back at full strength Monday . 
Banks indicated they were operating at greater than 90 % of their usual capacity , but a Nob Hill hotel said tourists had fled , leaving the previously full hotel with an 80 % vacancy rate . 
City crews tallied the wreckage to buildings , but lacked a clear sense of how gravely transportation arteries were disabled . 
Among the city 's banks , Bank of America said all but eight of its 850 branches were open . 
Power failures kept just seven of its 1,500 automated-teller machines off-line . 
Securities-trading operations were moved to Bank of America 's Concord office , and foreign-exchange trading operations were shifted to Los Angeles , the bank said . 
Only five of 496 branches statewide remain closed , while 23 of 600 automated-teller machines remained out of order . 
Santa Cruz County estimates total damage at nearly $ 600 million . 
Santa Clara County has a running total so far of $ 504 million , excluding the hard-hit city of Los Gatos . 
That includes dwellings in the ravaged Marina district that must be demolished , peeled business facades south of Market Street , and houses in the city 's outer Richmond district that were heaved off their foundations . 
Many streets and sidewalks buckled , and subterranean water mains and service connections ruptured . 
It is likely to get as much as $ 800 million initially in additional funds , and eventually could get more than $ 1 billion , according to Mr. Fazio , a member of the House Appropriations Committee . 
The Bush administration has at its disposal $ 273 million in funds remaining from the $ 1.1 billion Congress released for the cleanup after Hurricane Hugo . 
He added that the Office of Management and Budget , the Transportation Department and other agencies are `` developing longer-term legislation '' that should be ready soon . 
California lawmakers are seeking changes in rules governing the federal highway relief program so more money can be made available for the state . 
The Asian Art Museum in Golden Gate Park reports $ 10 million to $ 15 million in damage , including shattered porcelains and stone figures . 
Its neighbor , the De Young Museum , totaled $ 3 million to $ 5 million in structural damage and shattered sculpture . 
At San Francisco International Airport , shock waves wrecked the control tower , knocking down computers and shattering glass . 
Offices of the city 's Rent Board were destroyed . 
`` All of the city 's $ 5.9 million emergency reserve was spent in the first 24 hours '' on overtime salaries , he said . 
`` We 're delivering a check for $ 750,000 to an automotive business in Berkeley that burned on Tuesday . '' 
After that , the federal share diminishes . 
For interstate highways , the federal share normally would drop to 90 % of the cost of repairs , and the state would have to pick up the remainder of the cost . 
Some 250,000 cars normally cross the closed Bay Bridge between Oakland and San Francisco daily . 
Officials say it is clear that alternate routes ca n't handle the overflow . 
Even so , `` We 're looking for chaos , '' said George Gray , a deputy district director at the California Department of Transportation . 
`` If there 's any way you can do it , you ought to go to Idaho and go fishing for a while . '' 
`` Everyone left , '' said Peter Lang , reservations manager of the Mark Hopkins Hotel . 
`` We still have our die-hard baseball fans , '' a spokesman said . 
`` One lady from New York said she 's not going home until the -LCB- World Series -RCB- is over . '' 
There are no easy choices in Cambodia , but we ca n't imagine that it benefits the U.S. to become the catalyst for an all-too-familiar process that could end in another round of horror in Cambodia . 
The coalition would include the current Vietnamese-backed Hun Sen regime , the two non-communist resistance groups led by Son Sann and Prince Sihanouk , and the Khmer Rouge . 
The State Department says that any Khmer Rouge participation would have to be `` minimal . '' 
Recall that Nicaragua 's Sandinistas came into Managua as partners in a coalition government with anti-Somoza moderates . 
Within two years , the moderates were exiled or in prison , Nicaragua had gone communist , and the Sandinistas were building one of the biggest armies in Latin America and threatening their neighbors . 
In Laos , when the Western powers bowed to pressure for such a coalition it turned out they were opening the door to communist domination . 
Even Mao Tse-tung 's China began in 1949 with a partnership between the communists and a number of smaller , non-communist parties . 
It 's not clear which crew of communists might prevail in a coalition government , but the one good bet is that the non-communists would disappear . 
That would leave Hun Sen and the Khmer Rouge . 
These utopians caused the deaths -- by starvation , disease or execution -- of well over one million Cambodians . 
The Cambodian horror was so bad that the Vietnamese occupation in 1978 was a perverse form of relief . 
Some of our sources in Thailand say the notorious old Khmer Rouge leader , Pol Pot , has been holed up this summer in Khmer Rouge camps near the Thai-Cambodian border . 
True , Prince Sihanouk backs the idea of such a coalition , at least for this week . 
It 's time the State Department recognized that China does not play by gentlemen 's rules . 
It would be entirely rational for communist insurgents in countries such as the Philippines or Peru to conclude the following : Fight viciously enough and the U.S. , under the banner of pragmatism , might eventually help negotiate your way to victory . 
U.S. diplomacy has done it before , and it will likely do it again . 
Why the timidity ? 
At the very least , the odds are heavily weighted against the prospects of preventing the Khmer Rouge and Cambodia 's communists from ultimately moving against their opponents . When that day comes , it would be particularly awful to know that the United States sat on military aid and deprived these people of the means to settle their fate with at least a little honor . 
When that day comes , it would be particularly awful to know that the United States sat on military aid and deprived these people of the means to settle their fate with at least a little honor . 
Mr. Harris had been vice president for the newspaper 's advertising in New York . 
It is eliminating the positions of president and chief operating officer , formerly held by Edward L. Marinaro . 
Revenue is estimated at $ 18.6 million . 
FileNet said it does n't believe the state has a valid basis of default and is reviewing its legal rights under the contract , but said it ca n't predict the outcome of the dispute . 
The Lone Star is on the rise again . '' 
From Chevy trucks to Lipton iced tea to a host of battling banks , the state has been inundated with broadcast commercials and print advertising campaigns celebrating Texans and castigating outsiders . 
That has taken some of the swagger out of natives who like to brag that Texas is the only state that was once a nation , but it has increased their legendary resentment of outsiders . 
In the past , writes Houston Chronicle columnist Jim Barlow , outlanders were accepted only after passing a series of tests to prove they had the `` right '' Texas attitudes and `` of course they had to be dipped for parasites . '' 
North Carolinians , New Yorkers , Californians , Chicagoans and Ohioans own Texas banks . 
All kinds of landmark Texas real estate has been snapped up by out-of-staters . 
Even the beloved Dallas Cowboys were bought by an Arkansas oil man . 
`` This plays right into the hands of the advertising agencies . '' 
Real Texans do n't play paddleball , at least I hope not . 
This is football country . 
Stan Richards of Richards Group Inc. , Dallas , tells of the Texan who saw the agency 's tear-jerking commercial for First Gibraltar Bank F.S.B. -- complete with the state 's anthem -- and promptly invested $ 100,000 in the thrift 's CDs . 
Never mind that First Gibraltar is one of the failed Texas thrifts taken over by outsiders -- in this case , an investor group headed by New York financier Ronald Perelman . 
`` Obviously , pride sells in Texas , '' says a spokeswoman for Bozell Inc. , Omaha , Neb. , which represents 
Ford trucks may outsell Chevy trucks in places like `` Connecticut and Long Island , '' sniffs a commercial for Chevrolet , a division of General Motors Corp . 
The commercial , created by Bateman , Bryan & Galles Inc. , of Dallas , adds derisively : `` I bet it takes a real tough truck to haul your Ivy League buddies to the yacht club . '' 
Because they want a truck that is `` Texas tough , '' the commercial concludes , `` Texans drive Chevy . '' 
Commercials will highlight heart-rending scenes of Texas and chest-swelling , ain't-it-great-to-be-a-Texan music . 
Supporting banks will sign a `` Texas Declaration of Independents . '' 
A video sent to association members , featuring shots of the Alamo , cowboys , fajitas and a statue of Sam Houston , does n't mince words . 
`` Texans can sniff a phony a mile away , '' the narrator warns outsiders . 
The account had been at Della Femina McNamee WCRS , New York . 
It says it may pull its clients ' ads from those magazines . 
Earnings for fiscal 1989 were $ 14.4 million , or 80 cents a share , on sales of $ 257.8 million . 
Mr. Dell said he does n't expect a loss in either the third or fourth quarter , but said third-quarter earnings could be as low as four cents a share . 
In the third quarter last year , Dell had net income of $ 5 million , or 26 cents a share , on sales of $ 75.2 million . 
Some delays have been caused by a shortage of micoprocessors -- notably Intel Corp. 's newest chip , the 486 -- but others apparently have been caused by Dell 's explosive growth and thinly stretched resources . 
The result has been thinner margins , which have been further eroded by an ambitious research and development effort and rapid overseas expansion . 
Results for the earlier quarter included a $ 100,000 restructuring charge . 
Revenue dropped 5.4 % to $ 3.48 billion from $ 3.68 billion . 
The year-earlier nine months include a gain of $ 35 million , or 13 cents a share , from sale of the company 's Electricity Control & Transformers division . 
The debentures , due in 2014 , have a coupon of 7 3\/4 % , payable semiannually . 
The debentures may be converted into common stock of the Westborough , Mass. , home health care concern at $ 52.50 a share . 
Revenue rose 40 % to 13.32 billion francs from 9.53 billion . 
It did n't say if its year-earlier results were influenced significantly by nonrecurring elements . 
Revenue was 21.98 billion francs . 
This is n't going to help , '' said Kenneth T. Rosen , chairman of the Center for Real Estate and Urban Economics at the University of California at Berkeley . 
The district , built on landfill , suffered heavy quake damage , including collapsed buildings . 
Yesterday , the city demolished two dwellings in the district because of severe structural damage and said as many as 19 of the district 's 350 dwellings might have to be razed . 
`` My gut feeling is that the Marina properties will be affected , '' said Grace Perkins , senior vice president at Grubb & Ellis Residential Brokerage Inc . 
Neither she nor other real-estate executives and brokers could project how much less Marina properties might bring , but she said the two-tier price structure would affect prices `` for a while . '' 
Because of the quake threat , `` some firms have evaluated what the cost is to shore up their buildings and compared it with the cost of building it elswehere , '' he said . 
A new dwelling would cost $ 21 million , Location Management found , compared with $ 22 million to make the present building earthquake-proof . 
Net income included a gain of $ 708,000 on asset sales , the real estate investment trust said . 
Revenue rose 3 % to $ 9 million from $ 8.8 million . 
Nationwide Health said it has `` numerous financing activities '' under way to remedy the problem and will make up the dividend payment later if possible . 
Sales increased 7 % to $ 1.49 billion from $ 1.39 billion . 
The gain resulted from the sale of Grace Equipment Co. , the initial public offering of a one-sixth interest in Grace Energy Corp. and an adjustment in the carrying value of certain natural resource assets not part of Grace Energy . 
Prior to the ruling the federal government had regulated only the telephone companies in Quebec , Ontario , British Columbia and the Northwest Territories . 
Since the preferred stock is cumulative , Amdura said it will pay all omitted dividends , which range from $ 1.19 to $ 4.88 a share , when debt-reduction requirements have been met . 
The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. approved the assumption of Century 's deposits and fully secured liabilities by a newly chartered subsidiary of Valley Capital Corp. , Las Vegas . 
The newly chartered bank will assume about $ 125.7 million in 10,300 deposit accounts and pay the FDIC a purchase premium of $ 2.9 million . 
This will give Paribas and Lonrho joint control of Societe Commerciale . 
After reportedly investing $ 100 million in the business , Discovision ceased manufacturing operations in 1982 and sold many of its assets to Tokyo-based Pioneer , among others . 
Winners outnumbered losers 645-293 , with 186 issues unchanged . 
Sentiment was helped by the small gain made by New York stocks Wednesday despite anxiety over possible effects of the major earthquake that struck northern California Tuesday . 
Fujisawa Pharmaceutical gained 130 to 1,930 yen -LRB- $ 13.64 -RRB- a share , Mochida Pharmaceutical was up 150 at 4,170 , and Eisai advanced 60 to 2,360 . 
Daiwa House advanced 100 to 2,610 , Misawa Homes was up 60 at 2,940 , and Sekisui House gained 100 to 2,490 . 
Kawasaki Steel was down 11 at 788 , Kobe Steel lost 5 to 723 , and Nippon Steel slipped 6 to 729 . 
The Financial Times 30-share index ended 13.6 higher at 1772.1 . 
Turnover was 382.9 million shares , compared with 449.3 million Wednesday . 
Storehouse gained 2 to 
Sun Alliance fell 1 to close at 289 , and General Accident jumped 10 to # 10.13 . 
With the company also exercising a plan to buy back as many as 10 % of its shares outstanding , B.A.T closed at 783 , up 27 . 
B.A.T said it purchased 2.5 million shares at 785 . 
South African gold stocks closed firmer . 
The mayor said the Quayle visit was `` a publicity stunt . '' 
Mr. Agnos declined the invitations , the White House said . 
`` We regret very much that the mayor of San Francisco has decided not to cooperate with us on this matter in making sure that there is adequate federal support for the disaster in his city , '' Mr. Fitzwater said . 
The White House announced that Mr. Agnos , along with the mayors of Oakland and Alameda , are to accompany President Bush on a tour of the earthquake area today . 
The commission denied Mr. Semel 's request that the fine and suspension be delayed pending the appeal . 
Already the firm has paid $ 211,666 of the fine , the suit said , and it will have to liquidate additional assets in order to pay the rest . 
The loans can be for accessory apartments , for cottages built in a relative 's yard , for home-sharing or for sale-lease-back transactions . 
It buys loans from lenders , packages some into securities for sale to investors and holds the remainder in a portfolio . 
Xtra , a transportation leasing company , said in a statement it would have no comment on Mr. Gintel 's plans until `` further information has been disclosed by him . '' 
Xtra said it recently bought back approximately 55,000 of its shares pursuant to its existing authorization to acquire as many as 650,000 shares . 
The Dow Jones industrials closed up 39.55 , at 2683.20 , after rising over 60 points in mid-afternoon . 
The dollar finished mixed , while gold declined . 
Energy prices continued to fall at the retail level , but economists worried about a big rise in wholesale energy costs . 
British Air 's move raised new questions about the buy-out group 's efforts to revive a stalled bid for UAL . 
Analysts were troubled by signs of flat U.S. orders at the computer maker . 
The rapid recovery continued to be fueled by growth in consumer loans , higher interest margins and only minor loan losses . 
Borrowed shares on the Amex rose to another record . 
Sterling had completed a five-year contract for NASA but lost its bid for renewal . 
Serious injuries or damages were n't reported . 
Thousands remained homeless . 
While the proposal won a slight majority , the 51-48 vote was well short of the two-thirds needed to approve changes in the Constitution . 
It was considered a victory for Democratic leaders , who favor a law barring flag burning . 
As they conferred near East Berlin , a pro-democracy protest erupted in the Baltic city of Greifswald , and activists threatened further rallies against leader Krenz 's expected hard-line policies . 
Dissident playwright Vaclav Havel reportedly escaped the crackdown , the fourth against activists in recent days . 
Specter , the vice chairman of the Senate 's evidence panel , said there was `` insufficient evidence to convict '' the Miami jurist . 
The report showed that September consumer prices rose just 0.2 % , a smaller increase than expected . 
The market had anticipated a 0.4 % rise in the price index . 
Sterling was quoted at $ 1.5990 , up from $ 1.5920 late Wednesday . 
They point out that September 's producer-price index showed a 0.9 % increase . 
Sales totaled $ 1.81 billion up from $ 1.71 billion the previous year . 
; Chemical Bank said it was `` highly confident '' it could arrange the balance of about $ 509 million . 
Oddly enough , this presents a problem for the stock . 
Block 's tax-preparation business is mature , they say , and some of its diversifications are facing tough competition . 
The company has consistently earned more than a 20 % annual return on its net worth while many companies would be happy with 15 % . 
`` You go to any medium-sized town in the U.S. and you 're going to see H&R Block tax services . '' 
That was before the 1986 tax `` reform '' made taxes more complex than ever . 
`` One thing you can bet on , '' he says , `` is that Congress will do stupid things with the Tax Code . '' 
`` They 're thrashing around for diversification , '' he says . 
`` I think a lot of their businesses are just so-so . '' 
It closed yesterday at 34 3\/4 . 
`` If you invested $ 10,000 in the initial public offering in 1962 , it would be worth well over $ 5 million today , '' says Fredric E. Russell , a Tulsa , Okla. , money manager . 
`` I do n't know what the risk is -LCB- of holding the stock -RCB- . 
Taxes are not going out of business . '' 
The number of big institutions that own H&R Block shares is 207 and growing , according to a midyear tally by CDA Investment Technologies . 
Brokerage houses are sweet on H&R Block , too . 
Zacks Investment Research counts five brokerage houses that consider the stock a buy , and four that call it a hold . 
None dare say to sell it . 
He wants stocks whose price\/earnings ratio is less than their growth rate ; as he figures it , H&R Block does n't even come close . 
; as he figures it , H&R Block does n't even come close . 
-LRB- In the past two years , the stock almost stalled out . 
It was above 33 , adjusted for a subsequent split , in 1987 , and has n't gotten much higher since . -RRB- 
The CompuServe subsidiary -LRB- which provides information to home-computer users -RRB- is `` where the growth is , '' he said , but its format is `` still too complicated . '' 
The tax business still provides about 70 % of earnings , on about 50 % of sales . 
Personnel Pool -LRB- temporary workers , mostly in the health-care area -RRB- chips in close to 25 % of sales but only about 9 % of earnings . 
He concedes H&R Block is `` well-entrenched '' and `` a great company , '' but says `` it does n't grow fast enough for us . 
We 're looking for something that grows faster and sells at a comparable -LCB- price-earnings -RCB- multiple . '' 
`` We 're still interested -LCB- in diversifying -RCB- , '' he says , `` but we 'd rather be prudent than make a mistake . '' 
Each $ 1 cumulative share can be converted into 4.92 common shares ; the ratio on the $ 3 cumulative is eight common shares for each $ 3 cumulative preferred . 
; the ratio on the $ 3 cumulative is eight common shares for each $ 3 cumulative preferred . 
Until then , options had been traded only in the over-the-counter market , mostly in New York , and in an almost invisible secondary market operating chiefly by telephone . 
After four year of tinkering and $ 2.4 million in seed money , the board set up the new marketplace , titled it the Chicago Board Options Exchange , and named Sullivan its first president . 
It listed just 16 options to buy a `` pilot list '' of stocks on the New York Stock Exchange . 
-LRB- Puts , or sell options , would not be added until 1977 . -RRB- 
The 282 members had paid $ 10,000 apiece for seats . 
By the end of 1973 , the number of `` underlying '' Big Board stocks had been increased to 50 and the options exchange had run up volume of 1.1 million contracts . 
A year later , it was 5.7 million . 
Last year , more than 1,800 traders on the CBOE bought and sold 112 million contracts on 178 listed stocks , 60 % of all U.S. listed options trading . 
The government , campaigning against fixed brokerage commissions , promptly sued the CBOE over its minimum-fee system . 
Seabrook officials said the plant could receive a full-power license by the end of the year . 
For the fourth quarter , Bristol-Myers Squibb will report one set of earnings . 
Sales gained 5 % to $ 1.59 billion from $ 1.52 billion . 
Sales were $ 730.1 million , up 7 % from $ 679.5 million . 
Revenue fell 3 % , to $ 105.2 million from $ 108.4 million . 
Sony added that a hearing has been set for Thursday in the Delaware Chancery Court in one of the suits . 
`` As one of China 's provinces , Taiwan has no right to join GATT on its own , '' Foreign Ministry spokesman Li Zhaoxing said . 
The Nationalists withdrew in 1950 , after their flight to Taiwan , and the Communist government in Beijing applied for restoration of China 's membership in July 1986 . 
Along with the car , Wacoal plans to launch a series of Caspita-brand men 's underwear . 
`` Now , we 're going to sell to men . '' 
An appeals-court panel slashed all but $ 40,000 from the award , the largest ever set by a British jury , pending a reassessment of the damages . 
Senshukai said the partners plan to rent to tourists but will also sell to interested parties . 
Francis Dang , 41 , is alleged to have been involved in cheating Drexel Burnham Lambert of up to 2.1 million Singapore dollars -LRB- US$ 1.1 million -RRB- by carrying out unauthorized transactions on the London Commodities Exchange and the International Petroleum Exchange . 
Mr. Dang is alleged to have used the account of Singapore hotel and property magnate Ong Beng Seng to effect the transactions . 
The study will support arguments against capping carbon-dioxide emissions that Japan will make at a U.N.-backed conference on atmospheric pollution next month . 
It said that expanding nuclear-power capability is the quickest way to lessen that dependence . 
The books 1,500 entries include stepping on cracks and knocking on wood ... . 
It turned out their children had been dialing a `` sex fantasy '' service in the U.S. . 
That 's a significant change from earlier this year when the plant worked substantial overtime only to have sales fall short of the company 's bullish expectations . 
The incentives boosted sales for a while , but the pace had cooled by last month . 
A 60-day to 65-day supply is considered normal . 
Steve Lowe , general manager of Jasper , Ga. , dealership , said new rebates of $ 500 to $ 1,000 on the models have stimulated sales , but not enough to significantly cut dealer stocks . 
Chrysler officials said the plant is scheduled to resume production on Nov. 20. , and 3,300 hourly workers will be affected . 
The shutdown affects 3,000 workers and will cut output by about 4,320 cars . 
The Corsica and Beretta make up the highest-volume car line at Chevrolet , but sales of the cars are off 9.6 % for the year , and fell a steep 34.2 % early this month . 
The shutdown will idle 2,000 hourly employees and eliminate production of about 1,300 medium and heavy duty trucks . 
A year earlier , net was $ 71.6 million , or $ 1.22 a share . 
The rise resulted from the transfer to non-accrual status of $ 96 million `` owed by two national borrowers and one local commercial real-estate customer , '' First Fidelity said . 
It said it does n't anticipate any loss of principal on two of the loans , comprising $ 85 million of these credits . 
Coastal would n't disclose the terms . 
The company said it may install additional processing units at the refinery to produce higher octane gasolines and other products . 
Exxon Corp. built the plant but closed it in 1985 and sold off much of the equipment to dismantling contractors , from whom Coastal bought back much of the equipment . 
The prime minister of Aruba has said it could cost around $ 100 million . 
The increase was due mainly to a $ 325 million order from Turkey to equip its fleet of F-16 fighters with Loral 's ALQ-178 Rapport III electronic countermeasures system . 
He added : `` I expect to see the earnings momentum we experienced this quarter continue for the rest of the year . '' 
Net income fell 8.6 % to $ 37.1 million , or $ 1.43 a share , from $ 40.6 million , or $ 1.56 a share . 
HealthVest missed an interest payment to Bank of Tokyo on Oct. 1 . 
The company said it recently sold its 750th cartridge system , which cost $ 400,000 to $ 500,000 each . 
Storage rose $ 1.125 a share , to close at $ 14 , in New York Stock Exchange composite trading . 
Net was up 69 % from $ 15.1 million , or 57 cents a share , last year . 
They include Enron Corp. , Texas Eastern Corp. , Pacific Interstate Transmission Co. and Tennessee Gas Pipeline Co . 
Shell , a subsidiary of Royal Dutch\/Shell Group , will be allowed to export 0.9 trillion cubic feet , and Gulf , a unit of Olympia & York Developments Ltd. will be allowed to export 3.2 trillion cubic feet . 
That unit of its Georgia Kaolin Co. subsidiary was sold to a unit of Unimin Corp . 
That rose to nearly 18 % during the Depression , and has n't changed much since . 
`` There is a lot of attention paid to housing as a form of household wealth , '' says Edward N. Wolff , professor of economics at New York University . 
It suggests that households accumulate wealth across a broad spectrum of assets . 
; stocks ' importance among assets largely reflects the ups and downs of the stock market , and not a shift in stock-holding preferences . 
`` Stocks have not spread to the general public , despite the fact that the environment is much different , '' concludes Robert Avery , an economist at Cornell University . 
`` To me it says that despite all the views that we spend too much of our wealth on paper assets , we have ways of holding wealth similar to 100 years ago . '' 
In a statement , Craig O. McCaw , chairman and chief executive officer of McCaw , said : `` We trust LIN will take no further actions that favor BellSouth . '' 
The successors would be nominated by the independent directors . 
Independent directors would have veto rights to any acquisition if they unanimously decide it is n't in LIN 's best interest . 
The directors would be able to sell particular assets to enable such buyers as the regional Bell operating companies to purchase the company 's interests . 
The entertainment concern said the success of several movies released during the quarter , including `` Parenthood '' and `` Uncle Buck , '' contributed to record revenue for its film unit . 
These items were partly offset , MCA said , by an unspecified gain on the sale of its Miller International unit , a maker and distributor of budget-priced audio cassettes . 
Revenue increased 22 % to $ 2.5 billion from $ 2.1 billion . 
Helmsley 's insurance division had slightly exceeded that percentage , sources say , but the division was n't considered significant enough to the company to be restructured , particularly at a difficult time for the firm . 
Frank B. Hall Inc. of Briarcliff Manor , N.Y. is reportedly working out an agreement with Helmsley . 
Officials there declined to comment , as did Helmsley management . 
Over at Conradies , the general store , a black stock boy scurries to help an elderly white woman with her packages . 
Down the street , a car pulls into the Shell station and is surrounded by black attendants . 
A dozen white office workers fold newsletters and stuff them into envelopes . 
White women serve tea and coffee , and then wash the cups and saucers afterwards . 
White children empty the wastepaper baskets and squeegee the windows . 
There is n't a black worker in sight . 
Not in the kitchen , or the storeroom or the book shop . 
Their idea is to create a city , first , and then an entire nation -- without blacks . 
This may seem to be a preposterous and utterly futile effort in Africa . 
Afrikaner philosophers and theologians have long ruminated on the need for a white homeland . 
The Orange Workers are just putting this preaching into practice . 
On almost every other farm in South Africa , black workers do the repairs . 
Mr. Fischer plows his own fields , sows his own corn and sunflowers , and feeds his own sheep . 
On Main Street , Alida Verwoerd and her daughters look after the clothes and fabric shop , then hurry home to fix lunch for the rest of the family . 
Down by the stream , a group of Orange Workers puts the finishing touches on a golf course . 
If whites want to play there by themselves , says consulting engineer Willem van Heerden , whites should also build it by themselves . 
The Afrikaner must end his reliance on others . '' 
: The master ca n't become dependent on the slave and expect to remain master forever . 
; today , whites even rely on blacks to police their separation . 
`` We agree with world opinion that the status quo in South Africa is morally wrong , '' says Pieter Bruwer , the Orange Workers ' chief scribe and pamphleteer . 
`` We must either integrate honestly or segregate honestly . '' 
According to Mr. Verwoerd , the early Afrikaner pioneers were the first people to settle in the eastern Transvaal , even before the blacks . 
; blacks could work there , but they had to leave at night . 
Weeds push up through the cracks in the sidewalks , and many houses and storefronts are empty . 
There are few factories and no mines . 
It was an ideal place for the Orange Workers to start their new nation , unencumbered by the demographics that have undermined apartheid elsewhere in South Africa . 
Just beyond the city limits is a shantytown of 2,000 blacks who are employed throughout the area . 
Try as they might , they just ca n't conceive of life without black workers . 
`` We ca n't do without their help , '' says Mrs. Conradie . 
`` Oh no . 
We need them and I thank God for them . '' 
`` What they want us to do just is n't practical , '' he says , noting that he employs 16 blacks . 
`` I could n't afford to hire 16 whites . 
The only Afrikaners who would be willing to work for this salary would n't know how to handle money . '' 
`` By populating a place now , we make ourselves a power any new government will have to take into account . '' 
`` The ANC wo n't be stopped until there is a provision for black aspirations , '' says Mr. Verwoerd . 
`` Look , '' he says , `` If the rest of South Africa wants to have an integrated melting pot , that 's their choice . 
We just want to have our own cup of tea . '' 
Not selling into a panic turned out to be very good advice : Despite the market 's volatility , the Dow Jones Industrial Average has surged 114 points in the past four days . 
: Despite the market 's volatility , the Dow Jones Industrial Average has surged 114 points in the past four days . 
Alan Weston , president of Weston Capital Management , a Los Angeles money-management firm , adds that in periods of uncertainty like today , `` it 's a good time to cut out the dead branches of your portfolio . '' 
`` We are n't inclined to prune stock portfolios now , '' says Steven G. Einhorn , chairman of the investment policy committee of Goldman , Sachs & Co . 
`` Investors should stay with their stocks . 
We expect a choppy and sloppy market for a short period , but we do n't think it will be ugly . 
The downside is limited . '' 
`` Sell stocks that are n't doing well now , and that do n't have good earnings prospects , '' says Alfred Goldman , technical analyst at St. Louis-based A.G. Edwards & Sons . 
`` Most people do just the opposite : They sell their winners and keep their losers . '' 
: They sell their winners and keep their losers . '' 
Which types of stocks are most likely to qualify ? 
A company does n't have to post a loss to be a candidate for sale , says Charles I. Clough Jr. , chief market strategist at Merrill Lynch & Co . 
If earnings do n't live up to analysts ' expectations , he says , that 's enough to dump the stock . 
`` Substituting a rule of thumb for your own judgment '' can be a mistake , he says . 
An earnings disappointment may reflect a situation that 's short-term . 
The economy is decelerating after six good years , and `` right now it 's better to shoot first and ask questions later . '' 
Which types of stocks currently have the greatest earnings risks ? 
The companies apt to run into earnings problems soonest are the ones with heavy debt loads , says Larry Biehl , partner in the San Mateo , Calif. , money-management firm of Bailard , Biehl & Kaiser . 
: `` If we do have an economic slowdown , '' he says , `` companies with high debt ratios will be dumped en masse . '' 
The best course for individual investors is to sell these stocks now , the two advisers say . 
Takeover activity will slow down as more and more banks tighten their lending requirements , he says . 
`` There 'll be fewer and fewer deals . '' 
In general , they say , avoid takeover stocks . 
Mr. Canelo suggests that investors compare price\/earnings ratios -LRB- the price of a share of stock divided by a company 's per-share earnings for a 12-month period -RRB- with projected growth rates . 
`` If you think earnings will grow at 20 % a year , it 's all right to pay 20 times earnings , '' he says . 
`` If you say sell anytime a company 's price\/earnings ratio exceeds 15 , that knocks out all your growth stocks , '' he says . 
`` You eliminate companies with substantial prospects that are moving up in price . '' 
Tom Schlesinger , market analyst at A.G. Edwards & Sons Inc. , says investors should consider selling if there has been a fundamental change in a company since they bought its stock . 
Say you purchased a stock because of a new product that was in the works . 
Now , because of various difficulties , the product has been scrapped . 
Time to sell , says Mr. Schlesinger . 
If things have n't worked out that well , and sales wo n't hit $ 200 million until 1992 , it 's time to consider selling , he says . 
They are : James R. Eiszner , 62 years old and chairman and chief executive officer of CPC International Inc. ; Robert G. Schwartz , 61 , chairman , president and chief executive officer of Metropolitan Life Insurance Co. , and Walter V. Shipley , 53 , chairman and chief executive officer of Chemical Banking Corp . 
All but eight of the 850 branches , which had some structural damage , reopened yesterday for business . 
Third-quarter profit was 16 % below the $ 304 million , or $ 1.50 a share , earned in the 1989 second quarter . 
Excluding tax credits , profit was 6 % below the second quarter . 
The provision rate was far above BankAmerica 's actual net credit losses of $ 24 million in the third quarter , compared with $ 18 million in the second period and $ 38 million a year earlier . 
By that key measure of operating efficiency , BankAmerica turned in a better performance than its well-regarded Los Angeles-based competitor , Security Pacific Corp. , which posted a 0.89 % return in the third quarter . 
In composite trading yesterday on the New York Stock Exchange , BankAmerica common stock edged up 12.5 cents to close at $ 32 a share . 
The 4.52 % net interest margin , or the difference between the yield on a bank 's investments and the rate it pays for deposits and other borrowings , was still markedly higher than the 3.91 % ratio a year earlier , and is among the best in the industry , analysts said . 
BankAmerica 's total loans rose 8 % to $ 71.36 billion . 
In an unusual display of openness , IBM also will be helping customers tie together operations that include lots of equipment made by IBM 's competitors . 
We 'll have to wait and see '' how the plan develops . 
While IBM has traditionally dominated the market for computers on the business side of manufacturing operations and has done well in the market for design tools , Digital has dominated computerized manufacturing . 
Hewlett-Packard Co. also has begun to gain share in the whole computer-integrated-manufacturing arena . 
: Gartner Group Inc. , a research firm , estimated the Digital gets 30 % of its revenue from the manufacturing market , and Hewlett-Packard gets 50 % . 
That is because many companies will standardize on certain types of equipment as the various parts of the manufacturing market merge , and IBM is the biggest player . 
The computer would let the machine run just until that order was filled , eliminating waste . 
It will continue to be sold in the European market . 
This fall , Ford introduced only one new product : A restyled version of its hulking Lincoln Town Car luxury model . 
Total Merkur sales for the first nine months dropped 46 % from a year ago to just 6,320 cars . 
The Japanese assault on the luxury market is rapidly overshadowing such European makes as Audi and Saab , which at least have clear brand images . 
Merkur , as an import on domestic car lots , suffered from the same sort of image confusion that is hobbling sales of imports at General Motors Corp. and Chrysler Corp . 
The sporty coupe foundered in part because American buyers did n't go for the car 's unusual double-wing rear spoiler . 
One major factor was the decline of the dollar against the mark , which began less than a year after Merkur 's 1985 launch . 
As the West German currency rose , so did Merkur prices . 
`` It was like a comedy of errors , '' says Martin J. `` Hoot '' McInerney , a big dealer whose Star Lincoln-Mercury-Merkur operation in Southfield , Mich. , sold more XR4Ti 's than any other dealership . 
Last fall , Ford announced it would discontinue the XR4Ti in the U.S. at the end of the 1989 model year . 
This year , Scorpio sales plummeted , and at the current sales pace it would take Ford 242 days to sell off the current Scorpio inventory of about 4,600 cars . 
Canadian Pacific , which has interests in transportation , telecommunications , forest products , energy and real estate , finally took its majority block off the market this spring . 
`` It turned out we could n't sell it , '' a Canadian Pacific official said , adding that acquiring the remainder of Soo Line is now `` the best way to rationalize operations . '' 
Revenue fell 5.8 % to $ 407.9 million from $ 433.2 million . 
The company had a loss from operations of $ 1.7 million . 
The results compare with a year-earlier net loss of $ 1.5 million , or seven cents a share , based on 20.3 million common and dilutive equivalents outstanding . 
Most of the expenses stem from the company 's huge Mirage resort-casino scheduled to open next month along the Strip , and an April 1989 financing by units operating the downtown Golden Nugget property . 
The year earlier , the company had a net loss of $ 4.3 million , or 20 cents a share , based on 21 million common shares and dilutive equivalents outstanding . 
The 1988 results include a $ 10.7 million charge stemming from a litigation judgment . 
An additional 299,000 shares are authorized for repurchase under an earlier stock buy-back program . 
He said he `` did n't argue with '' the company 's decision to seek his resignation because contemplating outside business ventures can distract an executive from performing his best `` at the job he is paid to do . '' 
He said that his resignation was a mutual decision with Capital Holding management , but that he was n't actually asked to resign . 
It takes five steps to make standard pencils , just one for the plastic type . 
Automated machines coextrude long plastic sheaths with graphite-plastic cores that are printed , cut , painted and eraser-fitted . 
A major difference is that a snapped wooden pencil will have a slivered break while a plastic model will break cleanly . 
It 's a trade secret how many were plastic , and most writers still do n't know what they 're using . 
The company said the decline was attributable to a 79 % reduction in net gains on loan sales this year . 
Great Western 's provision for loan losses was increased to $ 27.9 million for the recent quarter compared with $ 21.8 million a year ago primarily as a result of `` continued weakness in various commercial and multifamily real estate markets outside California . '' 
Revenue fell to $ 1.04 billion from $ 1.07 billion . 
`` The quality of earnings was n't as high as I expected , '' said Eric Philo , an analyst for Goldman , Sachs & Co . 
As previously reported , those sales have been declining this year in the wake of allegations that the company engaged in unfair sales practices that encouraged customers to overpurchase services . 
The company has denied the allegations but has negotiated a proposed $ 18 million settlement of related lawsuits . 
Analysts predict the sales impact will linger . 
`` There is n't much question there will continue to be a ripple effect , '' said John Reidy , an analyst with Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc . 
It cited cyclical conditions in its Moody 's Investors Service Inc. and D&B Plan Services units . 
Year-earlier earnings reflected costs of $ 14.3 million related to the acquisition of IMS International . 
When the company last considered adding the equipment two years ago , it estimated the cost at $ 21 million to $ 22 million , but a task force will have to prepare a detailed plan before the company can predict the current cost . 
I felt the temblor begin and glanced at the table next to mine , smiled that guilty smile and we both mouthed the words , `` Earth-quake ! '' together . 
This time , it just got stronger and then the building started shaking violently up and down as though it were a child 's toy block that was being tossed . 
Only a few books fell in the reading room . 
This building shook like hell and it kept getting stronger . 
Except for the gas tank at Hustead 's Towing Service exploding and burning in downtown Berkeley , things here are quite peaceful . 
A lot of car alarms went off . 
A woman in a three-story apartment was able to walk out the window of the third floor onto street level after the quake . 
The house just settled right down into the ground . 
I heard parts of the building above my head cracking . 
I actually thought that I might die . 
I decided to brave the storm . 
My back is still in knots and my hands are still shaking . 
I think a few of the aftershocks might just be my body shaking . 
This being typed in a standing position . 
Duck swarms . 
I 'm just numb . 
No power , minimal phones , and a mess of mayonnaise , wine , and everything else all over the floors of the big old general store and the People 's Co-op . 
At first , we were unfazed . 
Amazing what it does to one 's heart rate and one 's short-term memory . 
I realized what was happening and screamed into the house for the dogs . 
Never in my life have I been so frightened . 
When I saw the pictures of 880 and the Bay Bridge , I began to cry . 
It 's a flimsy structure , built up on supports , and it was really rocking around . 
We ran into the house to get Mame , but the next tremor threw me in the air and bounced me as I tried to get to my feet . 
We are all fine here , although Mame was extremely freaked . 
Not one thing in the house is where it is supposed to be , but the structure is fine . 
It 's hard to accept that it 's over and only took 15 seconds . 
Nausea seems a commonplace symptom . 
It is . 
Great . 
One reason : efforts to protect the spotted owl led to restrictions on logging in the Pacific Northwest , constricting supply and forcing prices up . 
Another reason : strikes , both at Georgia-Pacific and other lumber companies also cut supplies and raised prices , analysts said . 
Sales rose 11 % to $ 7.73 billion from $ 6.94 billion . 
Transportation Secretary Samuel Skinner , in a letter to the committee , warned that he would urge President Bush to veto the legislation if it passed Congress . 
Some of the bill 's supporters had taken heart from the fact that the letter was n't signed by Mr. Skinner and that it did n't contain a veto threat . 
`` We backed this bill because we thought it would help Skinner , '' one Republican said , `` and now we 're out there dangling in the wind . '' 
The secretary would be required to block an acquisition if he concluded that it would so weaken an airline financially that it would hurt safety or reduce the carrier 's ability to compete , or if it gave control to a foreign interest . 
Supporters of the bill are concerned an airline might sacrifice costly safety measures in order to repay debt . 
`` I do n't believe in the airline business you can be totally laissez-faire because of the high degree of public interest '' at stake . 
The index was under pressure for most of the morning over concerns that the effects of Tuesday night 's major earthquake in the San Francisco area would undermine the U.S. market . 
The mood changed after dealers reappraised the direct impact of the disaster on shares and Wall Street rebounded from early losses . 
The insurers ' relative resilience gave the market time to reappraise the impact of the California disaster on U.K. equities , dealers said . 
Pearl Group rose 5 to 628 , and Sun Life finished unchanged at # 10.98 . 
NatWest , the most actively traded of the banks , finished at 300 , up 1 . 
Dealers said the market was nervous ahead of a special B.A.T holders ' meeting today . 
The session is to consider a defensive plan to spin off assets to fend off Sir James Goldsmith 's # 13.4 billion bid for B.A.T . 
S.G. Warburg , also mentioned in the rumor mill , jumped 14 at to 414 . 
Jaguar advanced 19 to 673 as traders contemplated a potential battle between General Motors and Ford Motor for control of the U.K. luxury auto maker . 
The index gained 527.39 Tuesday . 
Declining issues outnumbered advancers 505-455 , with 172 unchanged . 
The Tokyo Stock Price Index of all issues listed in the first section , which gained 41.76 Tuesday , was up 0.24 points , or 0.01 % , at 2642.88 . 
The uncertainty was multiplied by the persistent strength of the dollar , traders said , and by the U.S. trade deficit , which widened by 31 % in August from the previous month . 
The impact on Japanese insurers and property owners with interests in the San Francisco area is still being assessed , they said . 
With uncertainty still hanging over interest rates and the dollar , the market failed to find a focus that might lead to further investor commitments , they said . 
Its popularity was due to speculation about the strong earnings potential of a new type of plastic wrap for household use , a trader at County Natwest Securities Japan said . 
Kirin Brewery was up 100 at 2,000 , and Ajinomoto gained 70 to 2,840 . 
Pharmaceuticals were mostly higher , with SS Pharmaceutical gaining 140 to 1,980 . 
Most of those markets had rebounded the day before from Monday 's slide . 
South African gold stocks ended marginally firmer . 
Trading had been impeded by a major computer failure that took place before the start of Monday 's session . 
The September decline followed an even steeper drop of 6.2 % in August and left housing starts at their weakest since October 1982 , when the country was nearing the end of a recession . 
The industry had shown signs of recovery this summer , after the central bank began to relax its clamp on credit , allowing interest rates to drop a bit after pushing them up for a year . 
Sales of new homes rose and inventories of houses , which had been climbing , dropped . 
In August , rates on 30-year fixed-rate mortgages started creeping up a bit , but they inched down again through September . 
`` We 've kind of settled now into an interest-rate environment that 's fairly high . '' 
Commission revenue was $ 522 million , up 49 % . 
Revenue advanced 26 % to $ 9.6 billion from $ 7.6 billion . 
Sales for the third quarter increased 6.5 % to $ 1.51 billion from $ 1.42 billion . 
The company said net income was flat because of investment in research and development and costs related to launches of several products . 
Sales by the specialty chemicals and materials science segments were flat , and sales by the agriculture segment declined 5 % . 
During the quarter , Pfizer received federal approval of Procardia XL , a calcium channel blocker approved for both angina and hypertension , and Monorail Piccolino , used to open obstructed coronary arteries . 
These actions did n't affect results because the gain on the sale of the European cosmetics businesses was offset by provisions relating to the Brazil divestiture and drug restructuring . 
Your Sept. 27 page-one article `` Charleston Lost Quite a Lot to Hugo , Especially Gentility '' leaves the impression that the storm was little more than an inconvenience . 
The damage reported focused on a select few who owned irreplaceable historic homes on the Battery . 
The damage will undoubtedly prove to be one of the epic human and economic disasters of the decade in this country . 
Your narrow focus appears to be a contrived attempt to show the people of that historic city to be doddering fools . 
Now , Mr. Guzman Cabrera is facing accusations that he 's as much a company man as La Quina was a crook . 
Brawls between union factions still erupt at Pemex installations . 
Leftist leader Cuauhtemoc Cardenas publicly questioned Mr. Guzman Cabrera 's `` moral quality , '' suggesting he is part of a conspiracy to turn over the country 's oil , a symbol of Mexican nationalism , to foreigners . 
`` This is n't a new kind of union leadership , it 's a new Mexico . We 're no longer afraid of associating with private or foreign capital , '' he says . 
We 're no longer afraid of associating with private or foreign capital , '' he says . 
Since world oil prices collapsed in 1982 , the government has siphoned Pemex 's coffers to make payments on Mexico 's $ 97 billion foreign debt . 
Little money has been returned to upgrade Pemex 's aging facilities . 
While the government drains Pemex from above , the union has drained it from below . 
A bloated payroll and pervasive graft caused Pemex 's operating costs to balloon to 95 cents of each $ 1 in sales , far above the industry norm . 
Some projections show Mexico importing crude by the end of the century , barring an overhaul of operations . 
They are `` at the base of all of the problems of corruption , '' he says . 
-LRB- The union will keep a 2 % commission on construction projects . -RRB- 
About 9,800 technical workers , notably chemists and lawyers , were switched to non-union status . 
Mr. Guzman Cabrera says the union 's sacrifices will be offset by a wage and benefit package that amounts to a 22 % increase in compensation . 
`` We are retaking the instruments of administration , '' says Raul Robles , a Pemex subdirector . 
`` The capriciousness would completely disrupt our operations , '' says Ernesto Vega Velasco , Desc 's finance director . 
This year , for the first time , Desc and other customers were consulted well in advance of the Pemex plant 's shutdown to ensure minimal inconvenience . 
In May , the government unveiled new foreign investment regulations that create special trusts allowing foreigners , long limited to a 40 % stake in secondary petrochemical companies , to own up to 100 % . 
`` They are preparing the workers for what 's coming : foreign control , '' wrote Heberto Castillo , a leftist leader . 
`` If we do not integrate into this new world of interdependence , sooner or later we 're going to become victims of our own isolation , '' he says . 
Some employers initiate referrals , especially if work problems threaten a top manager 's job . 
`` The level of stress for a woman is often so high , it 's the husband who says , ` I 'm worried about her , ' '' says psychologist Marjorie Hansen Shaevitz . 
`` Putting those times on the calendar , '' she says , `` is as important as remembering business appointments . '' 
: Two of three Japanese employees submit suggestions to save money , increase efficiency and boost morale , while only 8 % of American workers do . 
Each new employee is expected to submit four daily in the first few months on the job . 
U.S. companies tend to favor suggestions `` that go for the home runs , '' says Gary Floss , vice president of corporate quality at Control Data Corp . 
`` If it causes management to take their eye off the ball , inventory shrinkage is going to be affected , '' says Lewis Shealy , vice president for loss prevention at Marshall Field 's , the department store chain . 
Pilferage climbed dramatically as many angry employees `` felt abandoned by the former owners , '' says the University of Florida sociologist . 
Security consultant Dennis Dalton of Ventura , Calif. , thinks mergers often trigger longer lunch hours and increased absenteeism , conduct which can sap the bottom line more than thefts . 
Most important , experts say , is to show that a company 's ethical tone is set at the top . 
: About 66 % of employees and 73 % of investors think senior managers get too big a slice of the profit pie . 
Just last month , a Bank of New York subsidiary agreed to buy the credit-card operation of Dreyfus Corp. 's Dreyfus Consumer Bank for $ 168 million , a transaction that is expected to be completed by the end of the year . 
`` We think there 's a good prospect that competition is going to get pretty fierce in this market , '' said James E. Day , a First City vice president . 
`` We see it becoming a bargain-basement kind of business . '' 
With that possibility in mind , analysts said the transaction was a positive move for First City . 
`` That 's something they can do very well . 
`` We 're in no way committed to a deal going through at all . 
We 're not rushing into anything . 
We do n't want to be party to a second rejection , '' he said , adding that coming up with a revised offer could easily take several weeks . 
UAL management was to pay $ 15 million for 10 % , and British Air was to receive a 15 % stake . 
Since then , UAL stock has fallen 33 % in what may rank as the largest collapse of a takeover stock ever . 
He said he believes UAL management was badly advised on the funding of its original transaction . 
`` As far as we 're concerned , we 're waiting for the dust to settle , '' he said . 
He said the original proposal is dead , and all aspects of a revised version are up for change , in light of the changes in UAL 's market price , the amount of debt banks are willing to fund , and the price British Air would be willing to pay . 
Asked whether a $ 230-a-share figure circulating in the market yesterday is too low , he said , `` It 's certainly not too low . '' 
British Air was originally attracted to the chance of obtaining a 15 % stake in the company , but was n't particularly happy with paying $ 750 million . 
In any new proposal , British Air would expect a greater rate of return than the 20%-plus in the original proposal . 
Roughly one-third of its stock is believed held by takeover stock traders , who could vote to oust the board if they become impatient . 
The 220 pilots involved in the suit are n't members of the union . 
The airline had allowed them to move ahead of some union members in seniority following the 1985 strike , a move the union had contested in a previous lawsuit . 
`` Employers who saw a short-term moderation in benefit expenditures are seeing a return to previous trends . '' 
`` The unnecessary and inappropriate use of the hospital , and not the actual need for a particular procedure , has been the main focus , '' the panel said . 
`` As a general rule , prior-review programs have not made case-by-case assessments of the comparative costs of alternative treatments or sites of care . '' 
The report said that utilization management should have more of an impact as federal research on the effectiveness of medical treatments helps lead to medical practice guidelines . 
`` It 's like squeezing a balloon , '' Dr. Bailit said . 
`` You have a whole staff standing ready '' to evaluate the appropriateness of recommended treatment , he said . 
Dr. Grossman , who also is president of New England Medical Center Hospitals in Boston , noted that the hospitals he runs deal with more than 100 utilization management firms and that many of them have different procedures and requirements . 
The panel urged greater efforts to reduce the complexity , paperwork and cost of utilization review . 
By pooling their resources , the two groups have effectively halved the design and development costs that would otherwise have been entailed , he said . 
Under a separate arrangement , British Aerospace PLC 's Rover Group PLC subsidiary will also be able to offer the vehicles through its dealers in the U.K. , and Renault 's truck-building subsidiary Renault Vehicles Industriels will have similar rights in France . 
The van Doorne family of the Netherlands holds an additional 11 % of DAF 's capital . 
It has an unusual kind of independence from elected officials and still has authority over one of the most powerful of government 's instruments -- the control of the money supply . 
As former Fed Chairman William McChesney Martin used to say , they would have to take the punch bowl away just as the party is getting interesting . 
The Fed is easily assigned the blame for unpleasantness , like high interest rates or slow economic growth , while the politicians can escape responsibility by pointing to the Fed 's independence . 
These proposals include changing the term of the chairman , shortening the terms of the members , eliminating the presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks from the decision-making process , putting the Secretary of the Treasury on the Federal Reserve Board , having the Fed audited by an arm of Congress -LRB- the General Accounting Office -RRB- , putting the Fed 's expenditures in the budget , and requiring prompt publication of the Fed 's minutes . 
They would not solve the problem ; they would make it worse . 
; they would make it worse . 
On average , something that cost $ 100 30 years ago now costs $ 425 . 
At least , it would not have happened without the support of monetary policy that provided for a 10-fold increase in the money supply during the same period . 
Despite all the formal provisions for its independence , the Fed seems constantly to feel that if it uses its independence too freely it will lose it . 
Putting the Secretary of the Treasury on the Board of Governors , one of the leading proposals today , is an example . 
The secretary is the world 's biggest borrower of money . 
He has a built-in , constant longing for lower interest rates . 
These days , the secretary suffers the further disqualification that he is a member of a club of seven finance ministers who meet occasionally to decide what exchange rates should be , which is a diversion from the real business of the Federal Reserve to stabilize the price level . 
By their constant readiness to advise all and sundry about federal budgetary matters the chairmen have encouraged the belief that fiscal policy and monetary policy are ingredients of a common stew , in which case it is natural that the Fed and the Treasury , and probably also the Congress , should be jointly engaged in stirring the pot . 
The Fed 's case for its own independence would be a little stronger if it were more solicitous of the independence of the rest of the government . -RRB- 
The Fed is responsive to , and can not help being responsive to , the more overtly political part of the government . 
The Fed exercises a power given to it by Congress and the president . 
What is undemocratic is the unwillingness of the more political parts of the government to take the responsibility for deciding the basic question of monetary policy , which is what priority should be given to stabilizing the price level . 
To leave this decision to an `` independent '' agency is not only undemocratic . 
Legislation to this effect has been introduced in Congress in this session by Rep. Stephen Neal -LRB- D. , N.C . -RRB- . 
Congress would be required to make a hard decision , and Congress would much prefer to leave the hard decision to the Fed and retain its rights of complaint after the fact . 
The government has other agencies and instruments for pursuing these other objectives . 
In the year earlier period , the New York parent of Republic National Bank had net income of $ 38.7 million , or $ 1.12 a share . 
Legislation to require the consent of parents before their daughters under the age of 18 can have abortions will probably pass both houses of the Michigan legislature and set up a grinding battle to override the expected veto of Democratic Gov. James Blanchard . 
`` The pro-choice movement has shown -- finally -- that it can mobilize , '' says Glen Halva-Neubauer , a Furman University political scientist who specializes in how state legislators handle the abortion question . `` But it still has n't shown that it can win in a state like Pennsylvania or Missouri , where abortion has been clearly an electoral issue and where it 's been an emotional issue for a long time . '' 
Under this legislation , a woman must be informed 24 hours before the operation of the details of the procedure and its risks . 
Susan Rogin , a consultant to abortion-rights activists in the state , takes comfort from the fact that the state 's House abortion opponents `` have n't been able to muster the votes to overturn a veto on abortion in 16 years . '' 
Pamela Sutherland , executive director of the Illinois Planned Parenthood Council , says she and her allies are `` cautiously optimistic '' they can defeat it if it comes to a floor vote . 
In Texas , abortion opponents want to pass parental-consent legislation along with a statewide ban on the use of public funds , personnel and facilities for abortion , and viability tests for fetuses 19 weeks and older . 
The anti-abortionists are urging GOP Gov. Bill Clements to press the issues in a special session scheduled to run Nov. 14 to Dec. 13 . 
`` Next year is an election year and the legislators just do n't want to do anything about this now . '' 
These include bans on the use of abortion for birth control and sex selection , and the public funding of alternatives for abortion . 
`` We now see pro-choice legislators going on the offensive for the first time , '' says Kate Michelman , executive director of the group . 
The company said that it is selling two million shares and that the rest are being sold by certain stockholders . 
Even the Office of Management and Budget is remembered with an extra $ 1 million to help offset pay costs that other government departments are being asked to absorb . 
The $ 196.7 million provided for fiscal 1990 anticipates the purchase of a Lockheed P-3 surveillance aircraft and five Cessna Citation II jets . 
The provision seeks to wipe out an estimated $ 1.4 million in claims made by the Health Care Finance Administration against HEI , which owned the hospital in Sullivan , Mo. , during most of the four-year period -- 1983-1987 -- covered in the amendment . 
The 79-year-old Mississippian takes a more orthodox , entrenched view of agriculture policy than those in the movement to reduce chemical use , but as a master of pork-barrel politics , he is believed to be annoyed as well that the project moved to Arkansas from a Tennessee center near Memphis and the northern Mississippi border . 
If anything , the gyrations in world stock markets -- and in B.A.T 's share price -- since last Friday 's sharp Wall Street sell-off have increased the likelihood of shareholder approval for the restructuring , analysts and several big institutional holders said . 
`` Thank God we have some deal on the table , '' said Stewart Gilchrist , a director at Scottish Amicable Investment Managers , which intends to vote its roughly 1 % stake in favor of the restructuring . 
B.A.T has been London 's best-performing blue chip over the past six months , up 40 % against a 4 % rise in the Financial Times 100-Share Index . But this week , B.A.T has been hit harder than other big U.K. stocks -- first by the market gyrations , then by Tuesday 's San Francisco earthquake , which could leave B.A.T 's Farmers Group Inc. insurance unit facing big claims . 
B.A.T rose five pence -LRB- eight cents -RRB- to 756 pence -LRB- $ 11.91 -RRB- in London yesterday as a late market rally erased a 28-pence fall earlier in the day . 
Proceeds will help pay for a planned buy-back of 10 % of its shares and a 50 % dividend increase . 
`` The shareholders effectively will support the share price by clearing the share buy-back . '' 
Company officials , holders and analysts who previously expected the disposals to be substantially complete by the end of next year 's first half now say the market gyrations could delay the actions well into the second half . 
`` We are n't forced sellers . 
We do n't have an absolute deadline and if market conditions are truly awful we might decide it is not the right time , '' to take particular steps , said Michael Prideaux , a B.A.T spokesman . 
Other potential bidders for parts of B.A.T 's U.S. retail unit include Dillard Department Stores Inc. , May Department Stores Co. and Limited Inc . 
B.A.T has declined to identify the potential bidders . 
His initial offer indicated he needed to raise as much as 80 % of the takeover financing through the debt markets . 
He added B.A.T `` has no expectation of a material impact on Farmers . 
`` People 's ability to drive throughout the bay area is greatly restricted , '' said a spokesman for the American Automobile Association . 
`` Some foodstuff shipments will probably resume Thursday , '' he said . 
`` Right now most of the roads into the Bay area are closed , but the list of closings changes about every 20 minutes . 
This -LCB- Wednesday -RCB- morning the San Mateo bridge was open and now we are informed that it is closed , '' Mr. Schumacher said . 
A UPS spokesman said that although none of the company 's terminals , trucks or airplanes were damaged in the quake , road shutdowns and power failures have impeded its pickup and delivery of packages . 
Santa Fe stopped freight trains Tuesday night while its officials inspected track but resumed service at 10:45 p.m. when they found no damage . 
That railroad is operating trains but with delays caused by employees unable to get to work . 
`` We had no serious damage on the railroad , '' said a Southern Pacific spokesman . 
`` We have no problem to our freight service at all expect for the fact businesses are shut down . '' 
The passenger railroad said it terminated some runs in Sacramento , relying on buses to ferry passengers to the Bay area . 
Amtrak said it planned to resume some train operations to Oakland late yesterday . 
The Bay Area Rapid Transit `` withstood the earthquake perfectly , '' said Mr. Engelken , adding that the rail system was running a full fleet of 45 trains during the day to provide an alternative for highway travelers . 
`` The highway system is screwed up '' by the earthquake , Mr. Engelken said . 
`` The transit system is how people are going to be getting around . '' 
The earthquake shattered windows at San Francisco International 's air-traffic control tower and rained pieces of the ceiling down on controllers , three of whom suffered minor injuries . 
Terminals at San Francisco International also were damaged , but the tower itself was intact . 
Tuesday night , thousands were diverted to other airports and had to wait a day to resume travel . 
United Airlines , the largest carrier at San Francisco , was operating only 50 % of its scheduled service in and out of the area because of damage to its terminal , which in turn was causing delays for travelers headed to the Bay area . 
A United spokesman said 14 of its 21 gates were unusable , mainly because of water damage caused when a sprinkler system was triggered by the tremors . 
`` I think that 's the first nonstop commercial passenger flight from Japan to land here , '' an airport spokesman said . 
Its telecommunications headquarters in Burlingame , Calif. , had been knocked out since the quake . 
`` We 're in the dark , '' he said . 
Analysts expect the spirits operations and some California vineyards that also are being sold to fetch about # 500 million -LRB- $ 788.8 million -RRB- . 
Whitbread bought the Beefeater distillery two years ago for # 174.5 million . 
Now , it wants to concentrate on beer and its newer hotel and restaurant operations . 
`` It 's not very often something like this comes up , '' said Ron Littleboy , a liquor company analyst at Nomura Research Institute in London . 
Grand Met owns Bombay gin , the No. 3 imported gin in the U.S. ; rival Guinness PLC has the No. 1 imported brand , Tanqueray . 
U.S. ; rival Guinness PLC has the No. 1 imported brand , Tanqueray . 
Seagram 's gin is the world 's No. 2 gin brand , but the company does n't own any of the major gin brands imported in the U.S. . 
Allied-Lyons , while powerful in whiskey , does n't own any major white-spirit brands . 
`` We will certainly have to take a look at '' the Whitbread spirits business , an Allied-Lyons spokesman said . 
`` We would certainly like to have a major white-spirits brand in our portfolio . '' 
Such companies `` are increasingly being left behind '' in the global liquor business , says Nomura 's Mr. Littleboy . 
The company , which is retaining most of its wine and all of its soft-drink interests , did n't break out results for the businesses it plans to sell . 
Whitbread had total pretax profit in the year ended Feb. 25 of # 223.2 million , on sales of # 2.26 billion . 
Earlier this year , the government announced plans to foster increased competition in the industry . 
Under new rules , many of the country 's pubs would become `` free houses , '' selling beers of their choice . 
The company , which last month paid # 50.7 million for regional British brewer Boddington Group PLC , has about 13 % of the British beer market . 
In Britain , those interests include the Beefeater steakhouse chain and joint ownership with PepsiCo Inc. of the country 's Pizza Hut chain . 
In Canada and the U.S. , Whitbread owns The Keg chain of steak and seafood restaurants . 
The spirits business `` would require substantial additional investment to enable it to compete effectively in the first division of global players . '' 
He will retain the honorary title of non-executive chairman . 
Sales rose 2.6 % to $ 1.32 billion from $ 1.29 billion . 
`` Their attitude is , ` You want to talk mainframes , we 'll talk mainframes , ' '' says one computer industry executive . 
`` Maybe we should take it as a compliment . '' 
Digital , based in Maynard , Mass. , hopes to stage a repeat performance in mainframes , and it has spent almost $ 1 billion developing the new technology . 
A spoiler , nimble Tandem Computers Inc. in Cupertino , Calif. , jumped into the fray earlier this week with an aggressively priced entry . 
`` It 's going to be nuclear war , '' says Thomas Willmott , a consultant with Aberdeen Group Inc . 
IBM 's traditional mainframe rivals , including Unisys Corp. , Control Data Corp. and NCR Corp. , have struggled recently . 
Robert M. Glorioso , Digital 's vice president for high performance systems , says Digital 's mainframe is designed not as a central computer around which everything revolves , but as part of a decentralized network weaving together hundreds of workstations , personal computers , printers and other devices . 
Digital is expected to tag its new line from about $ 1.24 million to $ 4.4 million and up , depending on configuration . That 's about half the price of comparably equipped IBM mainframes . 
That 's about half the price of comparably equipped IBM mainframes . 
Tandem 's pricing is just as aggressive . 
The computer giant 's current mainframe line , which has sold well and has huge profit margins , is starting to show its age . 
The new 3090s due next week will boost performance by only about 8 % to 10 % . 
IBM has a near-monopoly on mainframes , with an estimated 70 % share of the market . 
IBM is five times the size of Digital -- and 40 times the size of Tandem -- and wields enormous market power . 
It counts among its customers a majority of the world 's largest corporations , which entrust their most critical business information to IBM computers . 
One such company is Bankers Trust Co . 
Stanley Rose , a vice president , technological and strategic planning at Bankers Trust , says that despite Digital 's low prices , `` we are n't about to unplug our IBM mainframes for a DEC machine . 
The software conversion costs would dwarf any savings . '' 
As that system grows , larger computers may be needed . 
`` In the past , customers had to go to IBM when they outgrew the VAX . 
Now they do n't have to , '' he says . 
`` That 's going to cost IBM revenue . '' 
Barry F. Willman , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. , estimates the 9000 could boost sales by more than $ 1 billion in the fiscal year beginning in July . 
The first model available will be the 210 , which is likely to appeal to many technical and scientific buyers interested in the optional super-charger , or vector processor , says Terry Shannon of International Data Corp. , a market research concern . 
Most analysts do n't expect the new mainframes to begin contributing significantly to revenue before the fiscal first quarter , which begins next July 1 . 
The company has long struggled to deliver a strong mainframe-class product , and made a costly decision in 1988 to halt development of an interim product meant to stem the revenue losses at the high end . 
Digital 's failure to deliver a true mainframe-class machine before now may have cost the company as much as $ 1 billion in revenue in fiscal 1989 , Mr. Willman says . 
Amdahl Corp. , backed by Japan 's Fujitsu Ltd. , has a growing share of the market with its low-priced , IBM-compatible machines . 
Prices of long-term Treasury bonds hovered in a narrow band most of the day , finishing little changed despite the dollar 's weakness and fears about a wave of government borrowing coming soon . 
`` I think the problems in the junk-bond area are just beginning , and this will be very unsettling for companies that have issued junk bonds . 
In a bull market , credit does not matter , '' Mr. DeVoe added . `` But when it does matter , then it 's the only thing that matters . '' 
`` Things are beginning to settle down . 
The markets are returning to normalcy . '' 
New York Stock Exchange volume shrank to 166.9 million shares from 224.1 million Tuesday . 
Advancers on the Big Board outpaced decliners by 822 to 668 . 
In New York late yesterday , the currency was at 141.45 yen and 1.8485 marks , down from 142.75 yen and 1.8667 marks late Tuesday . 
Some analysts say the latest results only seem pale by comparison with a spectacular second half of 1988 . 
The Fort Worth , Texas , company is generally regarded as one of the best-run in the business , and its difficulties are likely to be reflected industrywide as other major carriers report third-quarter results over the next several days . 
Revenue rose 17 % to $ 2.73 billion from $ 2.33 billion a year earlier . 
Tim Pettee , an analyst with Merrill Lynch & Co. , said : `` The business turned faster than expected . 
Costs are giving them a little bit of trouble , and the whole industry is having a pricing problem . '' 
Revenue jumped 22 % to $ 7.89 billion from $ 6.46 billion . 
AMR has not been , and is not , for sale . '' 
Private-property rights would be upheld because the legislation would not ban coastal development . 
Already , the 1982 legislation has saved an estimated $ 800 million . 
In 1988 , 31.6 % of blacks lived in poverty , compared with 10.1 % for whites and 26.8 % for Hispanics . 
More than half of poor families were headed by women living without men , the bureau said . 
More than three-fourths of poor black families were headed by women . 
The rate among the elderly -- 12 % in 1988 -- was n't significantly lower than the year before . 
If it were n't for Social Security payments , more than three times as many elderly would be below the poverty line , Mr. Butz said . 
That is the greatest share reported for any year since 1950 , although changing definitions over the years distort the comparison . 
The bottom fifth of all families got 4.6 % of the income , down from 5.2 % a decade earlier . 
Earnings of female workers were unchanged . 
It rose sharply in the Northeast and Midwest and fell slightly in the South and West . 
The bureau said some 3.5 million fewer people would have fallen below the poverty line in 1988 -- and the poverty rate would have been 10.5 % instead of 13.1 % -- under the alternative calculation . 
A report by the staff of the Joint Economic Committee of Congress released yesterday concluded , `` It is misleading to make this change without adjusting for other changes . '' 
If all goes well , it will parachute a probe into the dense Jovian atmosphere in July 1995 to pick up detailed data about gases that may be similar to the material from which the solar system was formed 4.6 billion years ago . 
Jupiter is so enormous -- its mass is 318 times that of Earth -- that its gravity may have trapped these primordial gases and never let them escape . 
Some scientists have suggested that comets and asteroids may have brought enough of this kind of material from the outer solar system to Earth to spawn life . 
The photos showed active geysers on Io spewing sulfurous material 190 miles into its atmosphere and indicated that Europa may have an ocean hidden under a thick sheet of ice . 
An ebullient Mr. Johnson , wearing a NASA baseball cap and carrying a camera and binoculars , called the launch `` fantastic . '' 
Benny Chin , manager of the Galileo probe , compared it to watching a child leave home . 
`` I 'm happy and sad , '' he said . 
Galileo will skim past Earth in 1990 and 1992 , collecting energy from the planet 's gravitational field to gain momentum for its trip to Jupiter . 
The protesters point out that Galileo also could crash to Earth then . 
; a computer virus caused anti-Galileo messages to flash onto some computer screens at NASA centers . 
An unmanned spacecraft , Magellan , already is heading to Venus and is due to begin mapping the planet next August . 
Voyager 2 sent back spectacular photos of Neptune and its moon , Triton , this summer . 
In December , the shuttle Columbia will try to retrieve a satellite that 's been in orbit for nearly five years measuring the deleterious effects of space on materials and instruments . 
Next March , the shuttle Discovery will launch the Hubble space telescope , a $ 1.5 billion instrument designed to see the faintest galaxies in the universe . 
Around Thanksgiving , the Solar Max satellite , which NASA repaired in orbit in 1984 , will tumble back into the Earth 's atmosphere . 
NASA wo n't attempt a rescue ; instead , it will try to predict whether any of the rubble will smash to the ground and where . 
Private relief agencies , such as the Salvation Army and Red Cross , mobilized almost instantly to help people , while the Washington bureaucracy `` took hours getting into gear . '' 
One news show we saw yesterday even displayed 25 federal officials meeting around a table . 
We recall that the mayor of Charleston complained bitterly about the federal bureaucracy 's response to Hurricane Hugo . 
The sense grows that modern public bureaucracies simply do n't perform their assigned functions well . 
When Disney offered to pay Mr. Steinberg a premium for his shares , the New York investor did n't demand the company also pay a premium to other shareholders . 
When Mr. Trump sued Bally , he sued only on behalf of himself . 
If the judge is impeached , as is thought likely , he will be removed from office immediately . 
Avondale was notified by Louisiana officials in 1986 that it was potentially responsible for a cleanup at an oil-recycling plant . 
Avondale asked Travelers to defend it in the state proceeding , but the insurer did n't respond . 
The appeals court upheld a district judge 's ruling that the insurer had to defend the company in such proceedings . 
He said the decision was the first in which a federal appeals court has ruled whether administrative government proceedings qualify as litigation . 
Other areas targeted by the survey 's respondents included difficulty obtaining or maintaining public benefits -LRB- 22 % -RRB- , consumer fraud -LRB- 15.4 % -RRB- , and health-care issues -LRB- 15 % -RRB- . 
In 1987 he became deputy chief of the civil division . 
At the end of the term of the convertible loan , Sears could still own half the building , and AEW could own the other half . 
During the term , the lender can either receive a percentage of cash flow , a percentage of the building 's appreciation or a fixed return . 
The main advantage of a convertible mortgage is that it is not a sale and therefore does not trigger costly transfer taxes and reappraisal . 
The amount was n't disclosed . 
The provisions , in deficit-reduction bills recently passed by the House and Senate , could further cool the takeover boom that has been the driving force behind the bull market in stocks for much of the 1980s , some tax experts and investment bankers argue . 
The less-rigorous Senate version would defer the deductibility for roughly five years . 
`` It becomes a source of cash '' for the company making the LBO because it gets a deduction and does n't have to repay the debt for several years . 
These types of bonds have been used in buy-outs of companies such as RJR Nabisco Inc. , Storer Communications Inc. and Kroger Co . 
`` Prices for LBOs have to come down if you do n't have that feature , '' argued Lawrence Schloss , managing director for merchant banking at Donaldson , Lufkin & Jenrette Securities Corp. in New York . 
An investment group led by Chicago 's Pritzker family recently lowered a $ 3.35 billion bid for American Medical International , Beverly Hills , Calif. , because of the threat of the legislation . 
`` We would have paid more if we thought that law was n't going to pass , '' he said . 
That would force the buy-out firm and the target company 's management to reduce their level of ownership . 
`` The pigs in the trough may have to give a little bit of the slop back and then the deal can go through , '' said Peter C. Canellos , tax partner at Wachtell , Lipton , Rosen & Katz . 
Since they have a lower interest rate , they would n't fall under the junk-bond category that would lose its deductibility . 
The House version of the bill would make debt non-deductible if it pays five percentage points above Treasury notes , has at least a five-year maturity and does n't pay interest for at least one year out of the first five . 
The Senate bill would only deny the deduction until interest is actually paid . 
The House version would raise slightly more . 
`` There 's no question it will make LBOs more expensive , '' he said . 
`` The interest deduction was the engine that made these things more productive . 
For the first nine months of the year , Norwood said the average fund has lost 3.3 % . 
The declaration immediately made the counties eligible for temporary housing , grants and low-cost loans to cover uninsured property losses . 
The Department of Housing and Urban Development prepared to make as many as 100 vacant houses available for those left homeless , the Agriculture Department was set to divert food from the school-lunch program to earthquake victims , and the Pentagon was providing everything from radio communications to blood transfusions to military police for directing traffic . 
In Hugo 's wake , Congress allocated $ 1.1 billion in relief funds , and White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said $ 273 million of that money remains and could be diverted for quick expenditures related to the earthquake . 
`` That obviously means that we wo n't have enough for all of the emergencies that are now facing us , and we will have to consider appropriate requests for follow-on funding , '' Mr. Fitzwater said . 
The federal government is n't even attempting yet to estimate how much the earthquake will cost it . 
Money could be added to a pending spending bill covering the Federal Emergency Management Agency , which coordinates federal disaster relief . 
More likely , relief funds could be added to an omnibus spending bill that Congress is to begin considering next week . 
FEMA still has special disaster centers open to handle the aftermath of Hugo , and spokesman Russell Clanahan acknowledged that `` we 're pretty thin . '' 
Mr. Clanahan says FEMA now possibly may have the heaviest caseload in its history . 
`` It 's been a bad month money-wise and every other way , '' said Sally Stewart , a spokeswoman for the Red Cross . 
`` It just makes it a little rough when you have to worry about the budget . '' 
The Red Cross has opened 30 shelters in the Bay area , serving 5,000 people . 
Twenty-five trucks capable of cooking food were dispatched from other states . 
HUD officials said they will make available as many as 100 Bay area houses that are under HUD loans but now are vacant after the houses have been inspected to ensure they are sound . 
Additional housing vouchers and certificates will be made available , officials said , and some housing and community-development funds may be shifted from other programs or made available for emergency use . 
The IRS said it will waive certain tax penalties for earthquake victims unable to meet return deadlines or make payments because of the quake 's devastation . 
Even before the full extent of the devastation was known , Defense Secretary Dick Cheney ordered the military services to set up an emergency command center in the Pentagon and prepare to respond to various FEMA requests for assistance . 
A military jet flew a congressional delegation and senior Bush administration officials to survey the damage . 
The first phase of the program has been completed , but two other phases are continuing . 
: The government estimates corn output at 7.45 billion bushels , up 51 % from last fall . 
Soybean production swells 24 % . 
Economists expect consumer food prices to jump 5.5 % this year to the highest level since 1980 and up from last year 's 4.1 % rise . 
Next year may see a drop of one percentage point . 
Lower feed prices may help animals eat more cheaply , but humans have to factor in an expensive middleman : the processor . 
`` Labor takes the biggest single chunk out of the ` food dollar , ' '' says Frank Pankyo of the Food Institute . 
Two cans cost 89 cents during the drought . 
It 's estimated that one in six couples experiences infertility , and in 1987 , Americans spent about $ 1 billion to fight the problem . 
It adds that births were `` extremely unlikely '' after the fourth cycle and concludes couples who do n't achieve a pregnancy after four to six procedures should be advised that success is unlikely . 
Some couples continue to try . 
`` Such determination may translate into extreme physical , emotional and financial costs , '' the letter warns . 
Only three of the 25 corporate pension fund managers attending a Lowry Consulting Group client conference say they plan to change the asset allocation mix in their portfolios because of the market drop . 
Detroit Edison , the plan pioneer , generated $ 54,000 in matching funds this year , up from $ 39,000 in 1988 . 
`` We 're on a tight budget , '' says Detroit Edison 's Carol Roskind . 
Scott E. Thomas says the plans give employees `` a bonus in the form of charitable donations made from an employer 's treasury '' in exchange for the political donation . 
`` The U.S. government could be , in effect , subsidizing political contributions to corporate PACs , '' he says . 
Spiegel promises a `` Guaranteed Christmas , '' with a pledge to deliver goods before Christmas if ordered by Dec. 20 . 
An L.L. Bean spokeswoman notes : `` People are just used to living in a last-minute society . '' 
Blunt Ellis , a Milwaukee brokerage firm , says part of the reason catalog sales grow in popularity is because consumers have more money but less time to spend it . 
; Land 's End hires 2,000 . 
Unamused , residents burned Rand McNally books and wore T-shirts that said : `` Kiss my Atlas . '' 
The city 's Office of Promotion plans media events to welcome its successor . 
`` Our attitude is that -LRB- the ranking -RRB- is like Miss America . 
Once you 're Miss America , you 're always Miss America . '' 
Many Atlantans thought Pittsburgh was an unworthy heir . 
A columnist in the Atlanta Journal and Constitution wrote : `` Who did the research for this report ? Two guys from Gary , Ind. ? '' 
Co-authors David Savageau and Richard Boyer , live in Gloucester , Mass. , and Asheville , N.C. , respectively . 
`` It 's like fighting your way out of a fog . 
You do n't know which way to punch . 
The aerospace concern earned $ 28.8 million , or 61 cents a share , a year earlier . 
Sales in the latest period were $ 1.25 billion , down from $ 1.36 billion in the 1988 quarter . 
It earned $ 76.4 million , or $ 1.82 a share , in the 1988 quarter . 
General Dynamics closed at $ 54.875 , up 50 cents . 
Among them were the ALQ-135 electronic countermeasures system for the F-15 fighter . 
It said debt remained at the $ 1.22 billion that has prevailed since early 1989 , although that compared with $ 911 million at Sept. 30 , 1988 . 
Sales dipped 3.6 % to $ 3.92 billion from $ 4.07 billion . 
Its interest expense surged to $ 21.5 million from $ 12.4 million . 
For the nine months , General Dynamics earned $ 210.3 million , or $ 5.03 a share , up marginally from $ 208.8 million , or $ 4.97 a share , on a 4.9 % rise in sales to $ 7.41 billion from $ 7.06 billion . 
A year ago , net was $ 14.3 million , or 31 cents a share , on sales of $ 116.8 million . 
Sales rose to $ 406 million from $ 356 million the year earlier . 
In the first half , Lotus struggled to keep market share with costly promotions while customers awaited the launch of 1-2-3 Release 3 , the upgraded spreadsheet software . 
He estimated that 1-2-3 outsold Microsoft 's Excel spreadsheet by four-to-one in the quarter , and held a 70 % or better share of the spreadsheet market . 
Intel Corp. , Advanced Micro Devices Inc. and National Semiconductor Corp. were all up and running yesterday , though many workers were forced to stay home because of damaged roadways ; others elected to take the day off . 
; others elected to take the day off . 
`` It 's not the end of the world if you shake them up a little bit . '' 
Personnel spent the morning inspecting buildings for structural weaknesses , mopping up water from broken pipes and clearing ceiling tiles and other debris from factory floors . 
A Hewlett-Packard spokeswoman said that , while `` things are a big mess , '' some 18,000 Valley employees have been called back to work today . 
Even the carefully calibrated machinery in its giant Fremont plant , to the north of the Valley , was believed to be undamaged . 
A sudden surge or drop in electric power could ruin integrated circuits being built . 
For one thing , buildings there tend to be newer and , thus , in step with the latest safety codes . 
Their machine tools are even bolted to the shop floor . 
Intel said that over the past decade , it has installed computer sensors and shutoff valves , sensitive to the shake of an earthquake , in the pipes that snake through its plants . 
Compaq said it foresees no difficulties in obtaining parts in the immediate future . 
Digital Equipment has set up disaster-recovery response centers in Dallas , Atlanta and Colorado Springs , Colo . 
Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory , where the Energy Department tests and conducts research on nuclear weapons , had only `` superficial damage , '' a spokesman said . 
As thanks , the egg industry tried to break him . 
They tried to put Mr. Maynard out of business by an act of Congress . 
Egg-industry lobbying helped persuade six states to ban Mr. Maynard 's automatic egg-breaking machine because of fears over salmonella . 
His company , Misa Manufacturing Inc. , was forced to seek protection from creditors under federal bankruptcy law in 1987 and has since been liquidated . 
Monthly sales of his Egg King machine -- which he now is marketing through a new company -- have sunk to about half a dozen from a peak of 75 , says the 46-year-old businessman . 
Many larger egg producers are also egg processors , who crack , inspect , and sanitize billions of eggs , turning them into powdered , liquified or frozen egg products . 
The main reason : salmonella . 
Hens sometimes pass salmonella to the eggs , and it can also be found on unclean shells . 
The Egg King carries written instructions to break only high-grade eggs that have been properly sanitized and , as an added precaution , to use the eggs only in products that will be cooked enough to kill bacteria . 
With nearly 4,000 machines in use , there have been no salmonella problems as long as instructions were followed , Mr. Maynard boasts . 
`` Human nature being what it is , people do n't always follow instructions , '' says Jack Guzewich , chief of food protection for the New York state Health Department . 
The Decatur , Ga. , trade group has issued a `` briefing book '' that claims the machine is `` a health hazard '' and that Mr. Maynard is trying `` to make a fast buck at the expense of the nation 's egg producers . '' 
The UEP declines to comment , but the group 's attorney , Alfred Frawley , says the group 's actions are motivated solely by `` health concerns . '' 
Mr. Maynard initially won approval for his machine to be used at egg-processing facilities regulated by the USDA 's Food Safety Inspection Service . 
Unfortunately for Mr. Maynard , another branch of the USDA , the Agricultural Marketing Service , was in charge of eggs . 
After receiving complaints from egg producers , this branch got the other branch to rescind its approval , thus limiting the machine 's potential market to bakeries and restaurants and other establishments that are n't regulated by the USDA . 
Mr. Maynard , whose company at the time was based in Santa Ana , Calif. , enlisted his local congressman , and the battle was joined . 
Even then , opponents managed to get a congressional hearing to examine what one congressman called an `` unscrupulous '' method for breaking eggs . 
So far , New York , New Jersey , Nebraska , Georgia , Michigan and Minnesota have outlawed Mr. Maynard 's device , citing health concerns . 
The judge dismissed the suit and ordered Mr. Maynard 's company to pay over $ 100,000 in legal fees to the defendants ' lawyers . 
Mr. Maynard says the ruling pushed his company into bankruptcy court . 
Mr. Maynard recently fell from a horse and fractured his arm . 
Her Susie Diamond handles a song the way the greats do , like she 's hearing the way it should sound inside her head and she 's concentrating on matching that internal tone . 
When she is n't performing for an audience , she prepares for a song by removing the wad of gum from her mouth , and indicates that she 's finished by sticking the gum back in . 
; he wrote the screenplay for `` Racing With the Moon , '' a lovely coming-of-age picture set in the '40s . 
Both movies are infused with the nostalgic sensibility of someone much older , someone who does n't dismiss dreams , but who also has enough experience to see his limits . 
; `` Baker Boys '' is both bluesy and funny . 
After working for years with Werner Rainer Fassbinder , the late German director , and more recently with Martin Scorsese -LRB- `` After Hours , '' `` The Color of Money , '' `` The Last Temptation of Christ '' -RRB- , Mr. Ballhaus has developed a distinctively fluid style . 
What seemed like a good idea , to cast the Bridges brothers -LRB- Jeff and Beau -RRB- as the Baker brothers , actually turned out to be a good idea . 
: They 're playing proficient piano , face-to-face , on twin pianos . 
They wear tuxedos most nights , unless circumstances -LRB- a regular gig at a `` tropical '' lounge , for example -RRB- require them to wear special costumes , like Hawaiian shirts . 
He 's even able to think of a job that takes him out of the house 300 nights a week as an ordinary job . 
He 's got a wife and two kids and a house in the suburbs ; the audience sees only the house , and only near the end of the movie . 
; the audience sees only the house , and only near the end of the movie . 
; he lives in a loft with his sick dog and the occasional visit from the little girl upstairs , who climbs down the fire escape . 
He can live with little pleasures . 
These include Jennifer Tilly 's audition to be the Baker Boys ' girl singer . 
Ms. Tilly of the tweety-bird voice showed great comic promise during her stint as the mobster 's girlfriend on the television show , `` Hill Street Blues . '' 
Here she delivers , especially during her enthusiastically awful rendition of the `` Candy Man , '' which she sings while prancing around in a little cotton candy pink angora sweater that could n't be more perfect . 
-LRB- It matches her voice . -RRB- 
You 'll find her there . 
Better yet , check out the emergence of her comic persona in `` Married to the Mob , '' Jonathan Demme 's delightful Mafia comedy . 
They closed Tuesday in composite trading at $ 13.625 , down 37.5 cents , giving the stock portion of the transaction an indicated value of $ 38.8 million . 
Mr. Smith , 50 years old , was formerly responsible for advanced materials , which include plastic composites and alloys , in North America only . 
Yesterday , the company said the negative after-tax effect on earnings for the year will be about $ 3.3 million . 
For the nine months ended July 31 , Bank Building had a net loss of $ 1 million , on revenue of $ 66.5 million . 
I think that I 'm elected to represent the people that sent me here . 
The Capcom Futures unit withdrew from Board of Trade membership voluntarily in August , a Board of Trade spokesman said . 
Victor C. Benda , 58 , formerly executive vice president , succeeds Mr. Lang as president and becomes chief operating officer , a new post . 
`` It 's the proverbial flight to safety . '' 
The average seven-day compound yield on the 400 taxable funds tracked by IBC\/Donoghue 's was 8.55 % in the latest week , down from 8.60 % . 
In the latest week , funds open to institutions alone grew by $ 1.8 billion . 
Monday and Tuesday `` were lackluster in comparison , '' he said . 
`` They 're maintaining their attitude toward investing , which has leaned toward the conservative recently . '' 
It was as short as 29 days at the start of this year , when rates were marching steadily upward , and hit 42 days in August . 
The average 30-day simple yield was 8.26 % , compared with 8.27 % the week before , and the 30-day compound yield slid to 8.60 % from 8.61 % . 
The highest yielding taxable fund this week was Harbor Money Market Fund , with a seven-day compound yield of 12.75 % . 
The seven-day compound yield of the Dreyfus Worldwide Dollar Fund was 9.51 % . 
`` Our goal is to develop quite rapidly to a top-10 position ... by the end of three years from now . 
It implies very dramatic growth , '' he said . 
He added that Eurocom and WCRS had agreed to provide a development fund of # 100 million for acquisitions . 
The new agency group is already in discussions about a possible purchase in Spain , while Mr. Breene said it also plans to make acquisitions in Scandinavia , Germany and elsewhere . 
Della Femina had billings of just $ 660 million last year and ranked as the U.S. 's 24th-largest ad agency . 
The merged company that it now becomes part of will have billings of just more than $ 2.6 billion -- most of that in Europe -- bringing it to about 14th world-wide . 
To make it to top-10 status , it would have to leapfrog over such formidable forces as Grey Advertising , D'Arcy Masius Benton & Bowles and Omnicom 's DDB Needham . 
When WCRS created Della Femina McNamee out of the merger of three smaller agency units in 1988 , it said it did so in order to attract larger clients , especially packaged-goods companies . 
Since then , Della Femina won Pan Am as an international client and also does work for a few packaged-goods clients , including Dow Chemical Co. 's Saran Wrap . 
`` Three of our favorite names , '' Mr. Della Femina calls that roster , adding hopefully , `` We 're a much more attractive agency to large multinationals today than we were yesterday . '' 
As part of the restructuring , WCRS and Eurocom said they will look for ways to combine their media buying across Europe . 
Carat will receive its WCRS stake as part of payment for the 50 % Carat stake that WCRS is buying , while Eurocom said it expects to pay about # 32 million for its WCRS stake . 
Louise McNamee , Della Femina 's president , will continue running the U.S. agency day-to-day . 
WCRS says its debt will be cut to # 24 million from # 66 million as a result of the transaction . 
By buying the space in bulk , they obtain discounts as high as 50 % , which they can pass on to customers . 
Staffers at Thompson , whose offices are in the ultramodern Embarcadero Center , watched pictures drop from the walls and then felt the skyscraper sway seven to eight feet , according to a spokeswoman . 
Plaster fell and windows were broken at Chiat\/Day\/Mojo , a spokesman for that agency said . 
DDB Needham 's office building may have sustained structural damage , the spokesman added . 
`` All operations have stopped , '' he said . 
Thompson , a unit of WPP Group , will handle Faberge Organic shampoo and conditioner and Aqua Net hairspray . 
He had been president and chief operating officer of Ogilvy & Mather Direct . 
The deportation of more than 315,000 men , women and children by the Bulgarian regime adds up to one of the largest migrations seen in the postwar years . 
On Tuesday it approved Senator Bob Dole 's proposed commemorative resolution designating April 24 , 1990 , as the `` National Day of Remembrance of the 75th Anniversary of the Armenian Genocide of 1915-1923 , '' suffered at the hands of the warring Ottoman Empire . 
It puts great strain on a longstanding U.S. friendship with Turkey , a country that has been one of America 's strongest allies in NATO . 
Must it now accept that one of its strongest allies blames it for the genocide of another people ? 
Why , they wonder , should it belong to the EC ? 
Another anti-Turkish hook is the Islamic faith of the majority of the Turkish people : Turkey , we are told , is not a Christian nation ; its people simply wo n't fit in with the Western European Judeo-Christian tradition . 
: Turkey , we are told , is not a Christian nation ; its people simply wo n't fit in with the Western European Judeo-Christian tradition . 
; its people simply wo n't fit in with the Western European Judeo-Christian tradition . 
It 's when these rationalizations fall on deaf ears that the old standby of retribution for treatment at the hands of the Ottoman Empire comes to the fore . 
Turkey in any event is long past it . 
The country has in recent years accepted more than 500,000 refugees from at least four bordering nations . 
Kurds , suffering what many people consider to be a current extermination campaign at the hands of Syria , Iran and Iraq have inundated eastern Turkey . 
Now it is their fellow Turks arriving as refugees from Bulgaria . 
Surely , the past suffering of any people at any time can not be simply filed away and forgotten . 
; it merely produces more controversy and embittered memories . 
We have a better idea : Dismantle HUD to pay for the war on drugs . 
The single most important contribution the government could make now to help the poor is to get the specter of drugs out of their neighborhoods . 
If that takes money , take it away from this discredited federal department . 
No doubt many of his ideas are worthy , but ultimately he is proposing to make fundamentally flawed programs work slightly more fairly and efficiently . 
Congress is unlikely to go even that far . 
She says it 'd create 600 jobs and bring Cleveland tourist revenue . 
HUD says the project does n't qualify , and Mr. Kemp says that rock 'n' roll musicians and the music industry ought to put up the money . 
: `` I think the gentlelady is making an important statement . 
The implication that if a congressman calls about a project in his district there 's something wrong , I think is most unfortunate . '' 
Our view is that given Congress 's attitude toward HUD , the place probably is beyond reform . 
In the process HUD has wasted untold billions , created slums and invited corruption . 
That includes the CDBG funds and the Federal Housing Administration , which loans out money for private home mortgages and has just been discovered to be $ 4 billion in the hole . 
The rest ought to be used to clean out drugs from the neighbhorhoods . 
Even suburban Prince George 's County , Md. , reported last week there have been a record 96 killings there this year , most of them drug-related . 
A man in a wheelchair was gunned down in the crossfire of a Miami drug battle . 
A three-year-old Brooklyn boy was used as a shield by a drug dealer . 
Until then , the billions HUD spends on inner-city housing simply is wasted . 
No doubt he believes the place can be salvaged . 
Having seen the hypocrisy with which Congress has addressed the HUD scandals , we disagree . 
It 's time to scrap the politically infested spending machine HUD has become and channel the resources into the drug war . 
The rubble after the Armenian earthquake a year ago disclosed , quite literally , a city whose larger structures had been built with sand . 
Did the stock-market tremors of Friday , Oct. 13 , presage larger fragility , far greater upheavals ? 
A licensed government intellectual , Francis Fukuyama , recently announced in The National Interest that history is , so to speak , at an end since the course of human progress has now culminated in the glorious full stop of American civilization . 
That same calculation saw profit rates fall to 4.6 % in the recession year 1982 and the supposed miracle that followed has seen the profit rate rise only to 8.1 % in 1986 and 8 % in 1987 . 
By 1982 the ratio was 43.5 % , meaning that the market was valuing every dollar 's worth of the average firm 's assets at 43 cents . 
His assumption is that the underlying profitability rate will go up and the capital assets he bought on the cheap will soon be producing profits , thus restoring the market 's faith in them . 
The profit rate is still low and the Q ratio was only 65 % in 1987 and 68.9 % in 1988 . 
Result : a landscape littered with lemons , huge debt burdens crushing down upon the arch and spans of corporate America . 
Mainstream economists and commentators , craning their necks up at the great pyramids of junk financing , swiveling their heads to watch the avalanche of leveraged buy-outs , claimed the end result would be a leaner , meaner corporate America , with soaring productivity and profits and the weaker gone to the wall . 
The beneficiaries were those financiers whose icon was the topic figure of '80s capitalism , Michael Milken 's $ 517 million salary in one year . 
All along they have been noting the tremors and pointing out the underlying realities . 
Profit rates after the great merger wave are no higher , and now we have an extremely high-interest burden relative to cash flow . 
In contrast to previous estimates reckoning the default rate on junk bonds at 2 % or 3 % , a Harvard study published in April of this year -LRB- and discussed in a lead story in The Wall Street Journal for Sept. 18 -RRB- found the default rate on these junk bonds is 34 % . 
Without liquidity from the junk-bond market or cash flow from profits , they look to the government , which obediently assists the natural motions of the capitalist economy with charity in the form of cuts in the capital-gains tax rate or bailouts . 
The consequence can be inflation , brought on as the effect of a desperate bid to avoid the deflationary shock of a sudden crash . 
Mr. Fukuyama , peering through binoculars at the end of history , said in his essay that `` the class issue has actually been successfully resolved in the West ... 
From its peak in 1972 of $ 198.41 , the average American weekly wage had fallen to $ 169.28 in 1987 -- both figures being expressed in 1977 dollars . 
The whole structure is extremely shaky . 
Governments have become sophisticated in handling moments of panic -LRB- a word the London Times forbade my father to use when he was reporting the Wall Street crash in 1929 -RRB- . 
The S&L bailout could cost $ 300 billion , computing interest on the government 's loans . 
These are real costs . 
Under what weights will the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation totter ? 
They reportedly will invest a total of 20 billion yen -LRB- $ 140 million -RRB- in the venture , whose headquarters would be in France or West Germany . 
After that , `` it would make sense for airlines to talk about doing things jointly , '' said Cotton Daly , director of cargo services for New York consulting firm Simat , Helliesen & Eichner Inc . 
Many airlines are talking about cargo ventures , and there have been rumors about such a tie between JAL and European airlines . 
`` It is just one of a number of strategies JAL has embarked upon to come to terms with the situation in Europe after 1992 , '' the deadline for ending trade barriers in the EC , he said . 
A Lufthansa spokeswoman in Tokyo said the head of Lufthansa 's cargo operations had been in Toyko last week for talks with JAL . 
In Paris , Air France declined to comment . 
Whatever accord the three carriers reach , he said , he is skeptical it would create a separate airline . 
According to figures from the International Air Transport Association , they carried a combined 1.8 million tons of freight last year . 
Federal Express and Flying Tiger , as separate companies , carried a combined 2.6 million tons . 
They plan to increase cooperation in freight ground-handling and create a world-wide computer system to process cargo . 
Other airlines would have access to the system , they said , and negotiations with partners were already under way . 
Last month , the carrier said it wanted to lease crews and planes from British Airways so it could funnel its passengers from London to other European destinations . 
The SEC , faced with a major squeeze on options positions , said it was necessary to ensure that options listed on the exchange could be traded today and tomorrow . 
The Big Board said carpenters quickly erected a new options floor to accomodate 40 traders from the Pacific exchange . 
The Pacific exchange has options for 129 underlying stock issues , including highly active Hilton Hotels Corp. , which is listed on the Big Board . 
`` I 've told my staff and clients that they still have the ability to exercise their options , because they are guaranteed by the Options Clearing Corp. , '' said Michael Schwartz , a senior registered options strategist at Oppenheimer & Co . 
Workers could dial out , but they could n't receive telephone calls . 
`` It 's a very uncertain situation right now , '' said Navin Vyas , administrative assistant of trading floor operations of the exchange , which has daily volume of about 10 million shares . 
`` If one city is down , the other can take over . '' 
Charles Daggs , chairman and chief executive officer of Sutro & Co. , said traders came to work at 5 a.m. PDT -- many on foot because of uncertain road and traffic conditions -- but learned that they would have to await a required inspection by the city in order to turn the power back on at the company 's two main facilities there . 
That should happen by today , he said . 
The traders were executing municipal bond , mutual fund and other orders through a sister firm , Tucker Anthony Inc. , which is also owned by John Hancock Freedom Securities but is based in New York . 
`` We are having a regular day . 
Volume is down out of San Francisco , but not out of the 11 outlying offices , '' Mr. Daggs added . 
Sutro 's Oakland office executed orders through the Sacramento office , which was n't affected by the quake . 
Then she discovered that Quotron Systems Inc. 's Sacramento lines were down , because they are normally tied in through a system that goes through San Francisco . 
The company dispatched as many as 200 people in the San Francisco area to do the work , though most of the rerouting was done by computer . 
The company has spent some $ 5 billion over the past 3 1\/2 years to buy back 42 million common shares , or roughly 7 % of those outstanding . 
As of the end of the second quarter , it had $ 4.47 billion of cash and marketable securities on hand . 
At yesterday 's closing price , $ 1 billion would buy back about 10 million shares , or less than 2 % of the roughly 580 million outstanding . 
There are also other factors at work that are outside IBM 's control , such as currency exchange rates . 
The strong dollar , which reduces the value of overseas earnings and revenue when they are translated into dollars , is expected to knock 80 to 85 cents off IBM 's per-share earnings for the full year . 
Without that problem , IBM might have matched last year 's earnings of $ 5.81 billion , or $ 9.80 a share . 
Steve Milunovich , a securities analyst at First Boston , said that while investors were looking for an excuse to buy IBM shares a year ago , even the big institutional investors are looking for a reason to avoid the stock these days . 
Brokerage houses jumped in , touting `` post-quake demand '' stocks , and Kidder , Peabody & Co. set up a toll-free hot line for San Franciscans who might need emergency investment advice and help in transferring funds . 
Yesterday , the brokerage firm Conning & Co. said insurers will use the earthquake as an excuse to raise insurance rates , ending their long price wars . 
Bridge and road builders had a field day , including Kasler Corp. , up $ 2.125 to $ 9.875 , Guy F. Atkinson Co. , up 87.5 to $ 61.875 , and Morrison Knudsen Corp. , which reported higher third-quarter earnings yesterday , up $ 2.25 to $ 44.125 . 
Fluor Corp. , a construction engineering firm , gained 75 cents to $ 33.375 . 
Georgia Pacific Corp. , up $ 1.25 to $ 58 , and Maxxam Inc. , up $ 3 to $ 43.75 , both reported strong profits . 
Merrill Lynch & Co. touted Georgia-Pacific , Louisiana Pacific Corp. and Willamette Industries Inc. as the best post-quake plywood plays . 
Tosco Corp. jumped $ 1.125 to $ 20.125 and Chevron Corp. , despite a temporary pipeline shutdown , rose $ 1 to $ 65 . 
Wells Fargo & Co. fell 50 cents to $ 81.50 , and BankAmerica Corp. fell 50 cents to $ 31.875 . 
A computer failure delayed its earnings announcement , and some investors think it might have extra costs to repair damaged telephone lines . 
`` The owners of the company got a look at the potential risks in this business , and after Monday they felt they did n't want to be exposed any more , '' he said . 
The CBOE , American Stock Exchange , Options Clearing Corp. and Stephen Fossett , owner of Fossett , joined in putting up $ 50 million to guarantee the accounts at First Options . 
Never mind that her husband prefers Crest . 
After she heard about the artery-clogging hazards of tropical oils in many cookies , she dropped Pepperidge Farm and started buying brands free of such oils . 
`` I always thought Pepperidge Farm was tasty and high quality , '' Mrs. Lombardi says . 
She represents a new breed of savvy consumer who puts bargain prices , nutritional and environmental concerns , and other priorities ahead of old-fashioned brand loyalty . 
Marketers themselves are partly to blame : They 've increased spending for coupons and other short-term promotions at the expense of image-building advertising . 
: They 've increased spending for coupons and other short-term promotions at the expense of image-building advertising . 
What 's more , a flood of new products has given consumers a dizzying choice of brands , many of which are virtually carbon copies of one other . 
`` Without some real product improvements , it 's going to be difficult to win that loyalty back . '' 
For the survey , Peter D. Hart Research Associates asked some 2,000 consumers , including Mrs. Lombardi , whether they usually buy one brand of a certain type of product or have no brand loyalty . More than half the users of 17 of the 25 products included in the survey said they 're brand switchers . 
More than half the users of 17 of the 25 products included in the survey said they 're brand switchers . 
About 47 % are loyal for one to five of the products . 
Only 2 % are brand loyal in 16 to 20 of the categories , and no one is loyal for more than 20 types of products . 
Only for cigarettes , mayonnaise and toothpaste did more than 60 % of users say they typically stick with the same brand . 
Kathie Huff , a respondent in the Journal survey from Spokane , Wash. , says her husband is adamant about eating only Hunt 's ketchup . 
He simply ca n't stomach the taste of Heinz , she says . 
The 31-year-old homemaker adds , `` The only other thing I 'm really loyal to is my Virginia Slims cigarettes . 
Coke and Pepsi are all the same to me , and I usually buy whichever brand of coffee happens to be on sale . '' 
People often stay with a particular brand because they want to be associated with the image its advertising conveys , whether that 's macho Marlboro cigarettes or Cher 's Uninhibited perfume . 
Only 23 % of trash-bag users in the Journal survey usually buy the same brand , and just 29 % of battery buyers stick to one brand . 
`` In the past , you just wore Fruit of the Loom and did n't care , '' says Peter Kim , U.S. director of consumer behavior research for the J. Walter Thompson ad agency . 
`` The high score reflects the attempts to make underwear more of a fashion image business for both men and women . '' 
What loyalty there is to gas brands , he believes , is a matter of stopping at the most conveniently located service stations . 
Nearly one-fourth of participants age 60 and older claim brand loyalty for more than 10 of the 25 products in the survey ; only 9 % of those age 18 to 29 have such strong allegiance . 
; only 9 % of those age 18 to 29 have such strong allegiance . 
Marketers speculate that more affluent people tend to lead more pressured lives and do n't have time to research the products they buy for the highest quality and most reasonable price . 
An established brand name is insurance that at least the product will be of acceptable quality , if not always the best value for the money . 
It 's sort of loyalty by default . 
`` They 're buying whatever 's cheaper . '' 
They grew up with more brand choices than any generation and have shown less allegiance so far . 
He believes baby boomers will continue to be selective in their brand loyalties . 
`` Earlier generations were brand loyal across categories , '' he says , `` but boomers tend to be brand loyal in categories like running shoes and bottled water , but less so in others like toilet paper and appliances . '' 
Sometimes , they 'll choose Ragu spaghetti sauce ; other times , it will be Prego . 
; other times , it will be Prego . 
If a more absorbent Pampers hits the market , you can be sure a new and improved Huggies wo n't be far behind . 
The BBDO Worldwide ad agency studied `` brand parity '' and found that consumers believe all brands are about the same in a number of categories , particularly credit cards , paper towels , dry soups and snack chips . 
`` Too often , advertising imagery has n't done a good job of forging a special emotional bond between a brand and the consumer . '' 
Says Clayt Wilhite , president of the D'Arcy Masius ad agency 's U.S. division , `` Every time 24 hours pass without any advertising reinforcement , brand loyalty will diminish ever so slightly -- even for a powerful brand like Budweiser . '' 
The Kraft General Foods brand stopped advertising for about a year in 1987 and gave up several market share points and its leadership position in the coffee business . 
`` Even though brand loyalty is rather strong for coffee , we need advertising to maintain and strengthen it . '' 
`` The probability of converting a non-user to your brand is about three in 1,000 , '' says Tony Adams , the company 's vice president for marketing research . 
`` The best odds are with your core franchise . 
Our heavy users consume two to three cans of soup a week , and we 'd like to increase that . '' 
In one consumer focus group , a fan declared that , `` Campbell 's soup is like getting a hug from a friend . '' 
That helped persuade the company to introduce a new advertising slogan : `` A warm hug from Campbell 's . '' 
The earthquake 's toll , including possible deep structural damage , goes far beyond the more easily observed damage from a hurricane , says George Reider , a vice president in Aetna Life & Casualty Insurance Co. 's claims division . 
Reflecting that logic , insurance-company stocks posted strong gains . 
Most insurers already have mobilized their `` catastrophe '' teams to begin processing claims from their policyholders in northern California . 
State Farm said about 25 % of its policyholders in California have also purchased earthquake insurance . 
Allstate Insurance Co. , a unit of Sears , Roebuck & Co. , said about 23 % of its personal property policyholders -- about 28 % in the San Franciso area -- also have earthquake coverage . 
Highways , such as the section of Interstate 880 that collapsed in Oakland , generally do n't have insurance coverage . 
Industry officials say the Bay Bridge -- unlike some bridges -- has no earthquake coverage , either , so the cost of repairing it probably would have to be paid out of state general operating funds . 
Such increased demand for reinsurance , along with the losses the reinsurers will bear from these two disasters , are likely to spur increases in reinsurance prices that will later be translated into an overall price rise . 
His firm , along with some others , issued new buy recommendations on insurer stocks yesterday . 
`` I think there is a damned good chance someone is going to hit the skids on this , '' said Oppenheimer & Co. analyst Myron Picoult . 
He suspects some insurers who had purchased reinsurance to limit their exposure to catastrophes will discover that reinsurance was used up by Hurricane Hugo . 
Orin Kramer , an insurance consultant in New York , estimates that the 1906 San Francisco destruction , on an inflation-adjusted basis , included insured losses of $ 5.8 billion . 
He is estimating this week 's disaster will generate insured losses of $ 2 billion to $ 4 billion , following about $ 4 billion in costs to insurers from Hurricane Hugo . 
The buyer was n't identified . 
He said the tie-up would mean Jaguar could `` develop cars down range -LCB- in price -RCB- from where we are '' by offering access to GM 's high-volume parts production . 
Besides creating joint manufacturing ventures , the accord is expected to give GM about a 15 % stake that eventually would rise to about 30 % . 
`` We 're getting to the point where we are going to have to meet '' with him , one Ford official said yesterday . 
Ford probably will renew its request for such a meeting soon , he added . 
Ford has signaled it might acquire a majority interest later . 
`` I 'm not obligated to sit down and talk to anybody , '' the Jaguar chairman asserted yesterday . 
The fiercely proud but financially strapped British company prefers to remain independent and publicly held , despite Ford 's promise of access to cash and technological know-how . 
He said Jaguar started negotiating with GM and several other car makers over a year ago , but the rest `` dropped by the wayside ever since the share price went above # 4 -LRB- $ 6.30 -RRB- a share . '' 
The stock traded late yesterday on London 's stock exchange at 673 pence , up 19 pence . 
A typical British executive car is mass produced and smaller than a luxury car . 
It generally fetches no more than # 25,000 -LRB- $ 39,400 -RRB- -- roughly # 16,000 less than the highest-priced Jaguars , which are all known for their hand-crafted leather work . 
GM 's help would `` make it possible -LCB- for Jaguar -RCB- to build a wider range of cars . '' 
`` You are talking about a couple hundred thousand a year , '' said Bob Barber , an auto-industry analyst at U.K. brokerage James Capel & Co . 
The deal would require approval by a majority of Jaguar shareholders . 
`` We have to make it attractive enough that -LCB- holders -RCB- would accept it , '' Sir John said . 
'' Ford probably would try to kill the proposal by enlisting support from U.S. takeover-stock speculators and holding out the carrot of a larger bid later , said Stephen Reitman , European auto analyst at London brokers UBS Phillips & Drew . 
The anti-takeover measure prevents any outside investor from buying more than 15 % of Jaguar shares without permission until Dec. 31 , 1990 . 
`` It 's a very valuable weapon in their armory , '' which could enable Ford to bid sooner for Jaguar , observed Mr. Barber of James Capel . 
`` It would be difficult to see how a car company can be owned by a collective , '' Sir John said . 
`` It has never been done before , but there 's always a first . 
Total operating expenses increased 3.5 % to $ 2.78 billion from $ 2.69 billion . 
Overall access minutes of use increased 10.3 % and toll messages jumped 5.2 % . 
The refinancing of $ 481 million in long-term debt reduced net income by $ 22 million , or five cents a share , but in the long run will save more than $ 250 million in interest costs . 
The company previously said that the recent acquisition of Mobile Communications Corp. of America would dilute 1989 earnings by about 3 % . 
Operating expenses increased 2.6 % to $ 2.04 billion , including one-time pretax charges of $ 40 million for labor contract signing bonuses . 
Local service revenue increased 3.5 % and directory and unregulated business revenue jumped 9.5 % . 
The poll conducted by the Roper Organization interviewed 2,002 adults age 18 and older from July 7 to July 15 , 1989 . 
The margin of error for subgroups -- for example , married women with children at home -- would be larger . 
On Friday , 13 % of volume was in computer-guided program trades . 
One reason , they said , was that the official reports on the 1987 crash exonerated program trading as a cause . 
Under the exchange 's definitions , program trading also describes a number of other strategies that , in the opinion of some traders , do n't cause big swings in the market . 
Though it collects such data daily , its monthly reports on program trading usually come out about three weeks after each month ends . 
The September figures are due to be released this week . 
Besides reciting the pardon for program trading contained in the Brady Commission report , they said stock-index arbitrage was actually needed Monday to restore the markets ' equilibrium . 
Futures trading resumed a half-hour later , but the session ended shortly thereafter , leaving the stock market set up for more sell programs , traders said . 
By Monday morning , they said , stock-index arbitrage sell programs helped re-establish the link between stocks and futures . 
The Dow Jones Industrial Average plunged a breathtaking 63.52 points in the first 40 minutes of trading Monday as stock-index arbitrage sell programs kicked in . 
At about 10:10 a.m. EDT , the market abruptly turned upward on stock-index arbitrage buy programs . 
By day 's end , the Dow industrials had rebounded 88.12 points , or nearly half of Friday 's drop . 
It had profit of $ 48.6 million , or $ 2.46 a share , in the 1988 period . 
Valley National had been paying a quarterly dividend of 36 cents a share . 
The decision to increase the loan-loss reserve and suspend the dividend is `` both prudent and in the best long-term interest of the shareholders , '' he said . 
Richard M. Greenwood , Valley National 's executive vice president , said then that the company believed the write-downs were `` adequate '' and did n't plan to increase its reserves again . 
The key will be whether Arizona real estate turns around or at least stabilizes , he said . 
`` Some of those folks were coming back , '' says Leslie Quick Jr. , chairman , of discount brokers Quick & Reilly Group Inc . 
`` We had heard from people who had n't been active '' for a long time . 
All of a sudden , it was back to square one . 
`` I think it will shake confidence one more time , and a lot of this business is based on client confidence . '' 
Customers and potential customers are suddenly complaining about the stock market in the exact way they did in post-crash 1987 . 
`` I can just tell the questions are right back where they were : ` What 's going on ? , ' ` Ca n't anything be done about program trading ? , ' ` Does n't the exchange understand ? , ' ` Where is the SEC on this ? ' '' 
After expanding rapidly during the bull-market years up to the 1987 crash , retail brokerage operations these days are getting barely enough business to pay the overhead . 
At discount brokerage Charles Schwab & Co. , such `` cash-equivalent '' investments recently accounted for a record $ 8 billion of the firm 's $ 25 billion of client 's assets . 
The retail participation dropped to an average 18.2 % in 1988 , and shriveled to barely 14 % some months during the year . 
Investors will develop `` thicker skins , '' and their confidence will return , he says . 
Friday 's plunge , he is telling PaineWebber brokers , was nothing more than a `` tremendous reaction to leveraged buy-out stocks . '' 
`` It 's more of an important issue to keep control of those assets , rather than push the investor to move into -LRB- specific -RRB- products such as equities , '' Mr. Grano says . 
`` The equity decision will come when the client is ready and when there 's a semblance of confidence . '' 
`` Some investors will tiptoe back in , '' says Richard Ross , a market research director for Elrick & Lavidge in Chicago . 
`` Then there 'll be another swing . 
The long-term outlook for the retail brokerage business is `` miserable , '' Mr. Ross declares . 
Standard & Poor 's Corp. has them under review . 
If no margin agreed , there is a fallback rate of Libor plus 0.75 point in years one to 15 , and Libor plus 1.25 point thereafter . 
The second part , consisting of $ 28 million of 11 3\/4 % secured equipment certificates due June 15 , 1995 , was priced at 87.026 with a yield to maturity of 15.25 % . 
The third part , consisting of $ 18.5 million of 12 1\/8 % secured equipment certificates due April 15 , 1996 , was priced at 85.60 with a yield to maturity of 15.75 % . 
All parts of the issue are callable at any time at par . 
In 1986 , in another consent agreement with the SEC , Mr. Holmes was enjoined from violating the stock-registration and anti-fraud provisions of the securities laws . 
He added that he expects to talk to the Democrats who also wanted to cut the gains tax about drafting a joint proposal . 
The exclusion would rise five percentage points for each year the asset was held until it reached a maximum of 35 % . 
That rate would gradually decline to as little as 29 % for corporate assets held for 15 years . 
The Roth plan would create a new , non-deductible IRA from which money could be withdrawn tax-free not only for retirement , but also for the purchase of a first home and to pay education and medical expenses . 
Current IRAs could be rolled over into the new IRAs but would be subject to tax . 
Newly acquired assets would get a bigger break than those currently held . 
An extra exclusion would be given to long-held stock in small and medium-size corporations just starting up . 
That plan would provide a 30 % exclusion to assets sold over a 2 1\/2-year period ending Dec. 31 , 1991 . 
After then , the House measure would boost the tax rate to 28 % and exclude from tax the gain attributable to inflation . 
Senators are focusing on making a capital-gains differential permanent . 
Despite the tragic loss of more than 270 lives , and damage estimated in the billions , most businesses and their plants and offices in the Bay area were n't greatly affected . 
Michael L. Bandler , vice president for network technology at Pacific Bell Telephone Co. , says nearly all the network 's computer switches , which move thousands of calls a minute from one location to another , changed to battery power when the city lost power . 
The battery packs have enough power for only three hours , but that gave emergency crews time to turn on an emergency system that runs primarily on diesel fuel . 
Of some 160 switches in Pacific Bell 's network , only four went down . 
That 's because the widely used fiber-optic cable has been installed underground with 25 extra feet of cable between junction points . 
The slack absorbs the pulling strain generated by an earthquake . 
; many computer terminals remained dark , and by late yesterday a third of San Francisco remained without power . 
Business in the nation 's fourth-largest metropolitan region was nearly paralyzed ; an estimated one million members of the work force stayed at home . 
Business in the nation 's fourth-largest metropolitan region was nearly paralyzed ; an estimated one million members of the work force stayed at home . 
The $ 125-billion-a-year Bay area economy represents one-fourth of the economy of the nation 's most populous state and accounts for 2 % to 3 % of the nation 's total output of goods and services , according to the Center for Continuing Study of the California Economy in Palo Alto . 
In high-tech , the Bay area accounts for 15 % to 20 % of the U.S. computer-related industry . 
`` Obviously , things are going to have to go on hold for many companies . '' 
A quarter of a million people cross the Bay Bridge every day , far more than the 100,000 that use the Bay Area Rapid Transit system -LRB- BART -RRB- -- which was working but was n't stopping in the city 's Financial District yesterday afternoon because electricity was shut off and the area was being checked for gas leaks . 
All major roadways except Interstate 880 , known as the Nimitz Freeway , and the Bay Bridge were open by 1 p.m. yesterday . 
The earthquake caused many streets to buckle and crack , making them impassible . 
Other roads were obstructed by collapsed buildings and damaged water and power lines , an emergency relief spokesman says . 
San Francisco Mayor Art Agnos estimated the damage to his city alone at $ 2 billion . 
Of the scores of companies contacted by this newspaper , few reported any damage that they did n't expect to have remedied within a day or two . 
It is possible , of course , that some of the most seriously damaged companies could n't be reached , particularly in areas nearest the epicenter . 
Ten of the plant 's workers were injured when the quake hit about a half-hour into the afternoon shift ; seven were hospitalized . Metal racks on the plant floor fell over , and water mains ruptured , a spokeswoman says . 
; seven were hospitalized . 
Metal racks on the plant floor fell over , and water mains ruptured , a spokeswoman says . 
The plant was evacuated and workers sent home . 
Other buildings had broken glass , dangling light fixtures and broken pipes , a spokesperson says , estimating the cost of reconstruction `` in the millions . '' 
At the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco , Vice President Robert Fienberg says operations were `` steaming along as usual '' yesterday afternoon . 
`` The volume we received from the banks was a lot lower than usual , '' he says . 
A disaster-contingency plan in which the Los Angeles Fed would come to San Francisco 's aid was n't needed , he adds . 
The telephone network simply could n't handle the large number of people seeking to make a call at the same time . 
The volume resulted in dial-tone delays that were as short as 15 seconds and as long as five minutes . 
`` There will be a big influx of federal dollars and gains in state , federal and local employment , '' Ms. Mace says . 
Adds Stacy Kotman , an economist at Georgia State University , `` There 's nothing positive about an earthquake , but it will probably generate more construction activity . '' 
Shares of Lone Star Industries Inc. , a cement maker , rose sharply in anticipation of stepped-up demand . 
It 's something likely to be spread out over a long period of time . 
There will be a lot of repair work that wo n't require the quantities of cement or concrete that new constructon would . '' 
The first effects are , of course , negative as work is disrupted and people lose income and cut spending . 
; many trips delayed never take place . 
Because of the way the government keeps its books , the damage to the Bay Bridge , however costly , wo n't be counted as a minus . 
The money spent on repairs will be counted as a plus . 
`` You certainly can say it 's going to be extremely severe . 
We really are talking about shutting down a major American city for a number of days , maybe for a few weeks . '' 
He cautions that early damage estimates are often low ; the damage totals in Hurricane Hugo increased tenfold as more information was received . 
; the damage totals in Hurricane Hugo increased tenfold as more information was received . 
A direct hit on a major city , Mr. Goldberg figures , would cause $ 20 billion to $ 40 billion of damage . 
The impact on the insurance industry `` will be big and harsh , but less than -LCB- Hurricane -RCB- Hugo , '' says Mr. Byrne , who toured the Bay area by car yesterday afternoon to get a sense of the company 's exposure to the earthquake . 
In addition to paying for earthquake and fire damage , the insurer must cover worker-compensation claims and also losses due to businesses being shut down by lack of power or phone service . 
The Independent Insurance Agents of America says fewer than one of every five California homeowners has earthquake insurance . 
A somewhat higher percentage of people living in the Bay area have bought the additional insurance protection , but the great majority are n't covered . 
Gargantuan sections of a double-decker freeway have been heaved about like plastic building blocks . 
Atop them sit cars and trucks abandoned in a terrifying scramble to safety the day before . 
In areas where the freeway made giant concrete sandwiches of itself lie cars that police say have been flattened into foot-thick slabs . 
They peck away at the 1 1\/2-mile section of rubble , searching for more of the 250 people thought to have died here . 
Along the way , the quake toppled a mall in Santa Cruz , knocked down buildings in San Francisco 's fashionable Marina District and sent a wall of bricks crashing on motorists in the city 's Financial District . 
Efforts to fight the blaze were hampered because water mains were severed as well . 
As onlookers stand behind barricades , helmeted firemen and building inspectors survey rows of nearby buildings that were twisted from their foundations and seem on the verge of collapse . 
`` We always heard about the earthquake , but as children we did n't always listen . 
An article in the World Business Report of Sept. 22 editions incorrectly referred to his father , Grand Duke Jean , as the crown prince . 
At the state and local level , the bonds are subject to surtaxes and estate , inheritance and gift taxes , but exempt from taxation as to principal and interest . 
The sheets tell how the medicine works , describe how to use it and list its possible side effects . 
`` We believe that every drug that 's marketed to a consumer should have a consumer label , '' said Douglas Teich of the Public Citizen Health Research Group , a Ralph Nader affiliate . 
Dr. Teich said Searle is `` the only company I know that voluntarily '' will make consumer information available . 
`` We think it 's very important to provide as much information as possible on the drugs consumers take , '' said Searle Chairman Sheldon Gilgore . 
`` If the stock market tremors are behind us , then the bond market will go back to looking at the next batch of economic numbers to determine '' where interest rates are heading . 
Interest rates barely budged from Tuesday 's levels . 
RJR Holdings Capital Corp. 's 14.7 % bonds due 2009 fell one point . 
Other RJR issues fell between 1\/2 point and 1 1\/2 point . 
`` This was not a do-or-die deal , '' she said . 
`` I think this is a market that required some level of security . 
It did not make sense to offer unsecured paper in an unsettling market . '' 
`` The market is concerned about its ability to underwrite all this debt at current levels . '' 
Its securities have been dubbed `` bailout bonds '' by traders . 
Since those bonds already pay a slightly higher yield , an extra premium for the earthquake risk , they were n't materially affected . 
The latest 10-year notes were quoted late at a price of 99 26\/32 to yield 8 % , compared with 99 25\/32 to yield 8.01 % . 
In the four-part offering , the $ 71 million of secured equipment certificates was priced to yield 13.75 % to 15.75 % . 
Traders said investors were reacting to recent negative news on the city 's finances and are nervous ahead of the Nov. 7 election . 
The yield was 7.35 % , up 0.01 percentage point . 
Freddie Mac 9 % securities were at 97 4\/32 , down 1\/32 . 
Several key economic figures are due out and Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson is scheduled to give the annual `` Mansion House '' address to the financial community . 
Economists do n't expect any such changes in this year 's address , given Mr. Lawson 's apparent reluctance to adjust policy currently . 
Japan 's bellwether 4.6 % bond due 1998 ended on brokers ' screens at 95.75 to yield 5.315 % . 
The government 's 7 % issue due October 1999 fell 0.05 point to 99.90 to yield 7.01 % . 
East Germany , it is clear , is no Poland , where the Communist Party now shares power with the democratically elected Solidarity union . 
It raises the long-cherished hopes of many Germans for reunification -- a prospect that almost equally alarms political leaders in Moscow , Washington and Western Europe . 
-LRB- Mr. Honecker was twice hospitalized this summer for a gall bladder ailment and his physical condition has been the subject of intense speculation in the Western media . -RRB- 
His grip on power unraveled this summer as thousands of his countrymen , dissatisfied by the harshness of his rule , fled to the West . 
Thousands more have taken to the streets in the last month in East Germany 's largest wave of domestic unrest since a workers ' uprising in 1953 . 
The official line was to offer warmer ties to Mr. Krenz , provided he is willing to institute reforms . 
One top U.S. expert on East Germany added : `` There is no clear-cut champion of reform , that we know of , in the East German leadership . '' 
He said , while dialogue is important , enough forums already exist `` in which different interests '' can express themselves . 
According to West German government sources , Mr. Honecker and several senior Politburo members fought over the last week to delay any decisions about a leadership change . But , with public demonstrations in the country growing in size and intensity , Mr. Honecker and several key allies lost out in this battle , officials say . 
Those allies included Politburo members Guenter Mittag , who has long headed economic affairs , and Joachim Hermann , chief of information policy . 
Both men were also relieved of their duties yesterday . 
Clearly , the central figure in this process is Egon Krenz . 
Like West German Chancellor Helmut Kohl , he represents the postwar generation that has grown up during Germany 's division . 
Notably , one of Mr. Krenz 's few official visits overseas came a few months ago , when he visited China after the massacre in Beijing . 
He later defended the Chinese government 's response during a separate visit to West Germany . 
His shrewd ability to read the shifting popular mood in East Germany is best illustrated by his apparent break with his old mentor , Mr. Honecker . 
In recent days , Mr. Krenz has sought to project a kinder image . 
According to a report widely circulating in East Berlin , it was Mr. Krenz who ordered police to stop using excessive force against demonstrators in Leipzig . 
`` He 's not a reformer -- he wants to have the image of a reformer . '' 
-- he wants to have the image of a reformer . '' 
Besides sacking other senior Politburo officials who allied themselves with Mr. Honecker , Mr. Krenz could loosen controls on the news media , free up travel restrictions , and establish a dialogue with various dissident groups . 
`` He does n't signify what people want , so the unrest will go on , '' Mr. Oldenburg predicts . 
Says one West German official : `` What 's necessary now is the process of democratization . 
Not just that people are being heard but that their interests are being taken seriously . '' 
Reports in the West German press , citing sources in East Germany , suggest Mr. Krenz may serve only as a bridge between Mr. Honecker and a genuine reform leader . 
Adding to that speculation is Mr. Krenz 's reputation as a heavy drinker , who is said to also suffer from diabetes . 
Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev has pressed hard for a change in East Germany 's rigid stance . 
Two reform-minded party leaders favored by Moscow as possible successors to Mr. Honecker , Dresden party secretary Hans Modrow and Politburo member Guenter Schabowski , were passed over . 
According to the Soviet news agency Tass , `` Gorbachev expressed the conviction that the leadership of the Socialist Unity Party of -LCB- East -RCB- Germany , being sensitive to the demands of the time , ... will find solutions to complicated problems the GDR -LCB- German Democratic Republic -RCB- encountered . '' 
The older generation has been torn between a fear of tampering with the status quo and a fear of what might happen if they did n't . 
Unlike the other nations of the bloc , East Germany is a creature of the Cold War . 
Erasing the differences still dividing Europe , and the vast international reordering that implies , wo n't endanger the statehood of a Poland or a Hungary . But it could ultimately lead to German reunification and the disappearance of East Germany from the map . 
`` I 'm sure they 'll formulate a reform that will be a recipe for the GDR 's future as a separately identifiable state , '' says Michael Simmons , a British journalist whose book on East Germany , entitled `` The Unloved Country , '' was published this month . 
Neither man achieved perfection . 
By late 1988 , they were banning Soviet publications . 
Mr. Honecker spoke of `` generally valid objective laws of socialism '' and left no room for debate . 
Politburo member Joachim Herrman confessed to a `` grave concern '' over Hungarian democracy . 
`` Under the banner that proclaims the ` renewal of socialism , ' '' he said , `` forces are at work that are striving to eliminate socialism . '' 
Despite heavily subsidized consumer industries , East Germans have for years watched the West pull farther out ahead . 
In 1988 , for the first time , economic growth came to a dead stop . 
Some writers in theoretical journals even raised the notion of introducing democracy , at least in the workplace . 
Their proclaimed purpose is to cleanse East Germany of its Stalinist muck , not to merge with the West . 
One of their pastors has envisioned a `` new utopia '' of `` creative socialism . '' 
`` It was only a matter of time . '' 
Slower growth countries included Greece , at 2.5 % , the U.K. , at 2.25 % , and Denmark , at 1.75 % . 
At the other end of the spectrum , West German inflation was forecast at 3 % in 1989 and 2.75 % in 1990 . 
Nestle currently has only about a 2 % share with its Taster 's Choice coffee . 
The agency said Polish Prime Minister Tadeusz Mazowiecki told Iranian Deputy Foreign Minister Mahmoud Vaezi of Poland 's willingess to purchase the gas during Mr. Vaezi 's current visit to Warsaw . 
The agency did n't mention possible quantities and did n't say how the gas would be delivered . 
Hong Kong officials announced last week that the base will be relocated to a small island to allow downtown redevelopment . 
Ke Zaishuo , head of China 's delegation to a Chinese-British Liaison Committee on Hong Kong , accused Britain of trying to impose a fait accompli and said , `` This is something we can not accept . '' 
El Al director Rafi Har-Lev and top officials of the Soviet Union 's Aeroflot negotiated a preliminary pact in Moscow this week , the spokesman said . 
He added that concluding the deal requires approval by the governments of both countries , which have never had direct air links . 
British Tissues decided to do away with its hard paper after a major customer , British Rail , switched to softer tissues for train bathrooms ... . 
; lending practices vary widely by location . 
Last summer , the affiliates bitterly complained to network executives about the poor coverage of the student uprising in China . 
The stations said they were pleased with the extended coverage yesterday , including a special five-hour edition of `` Today . '' 
We were out of the box . 
In place of the games , ABC said it planned to broadcast next week 's episodes of its prime-time Wednesday and Thursday lineups , except for a one-hour special on the earthquake at 10 p.m. last night . 
He declined to elaborate . 
The latest quarter includes a $ 42.7 million addition to loan-loss reserves . 
As recently as August , the company said it did n't foresee a need for substantial additions to reserves . 
The latest period included a $ 9 million write-down on undeveloped land , while the year-earlier period included a $ 46 million reserve for real-estate losses . 
Shares of the new partnership would trade on an exchange like a stock . 
While he did n't describe the partnerships ' financial condition , he said their operations `` continue to drain the resources of Equitec . '' 
He was threatening to take over the carrier , after spending an estimated $ 167 million to build an 8.4 % USAir stake for his investment clients . 
The would-be raider even hired an investment banker to give teeth to his takeover threat , which was widely interpreted as an effort to flush out an acquirer for USAir , or for his own stake . 
Instead of hoping to sell his USAir stake at analysts ' estimated buy-out price of $ 80 a share , Mr. Steinhardt is stuck with roughly 3.7 million USAir shares that cost him $ 45 , on average , but yesterday closed at 40 1\/2 , up 1\/4 , in New York Stock Exchange composite trading . 
In trying to raid USAir , Mr. Steinhardt abandoned his usual role as a passive investor , and ran into snags . 
Analysts say USAir stock might lose four or five points if the Steinhardt stake was dumped all at once . 
`` He does n't usually risk that much unless he thinks he has an ace in the hole , '' adds another Steinhardt Partners alumnus . 
Mr. Icahn , a much more practiced raider than Mr. Steinhardt , eventually sold a big USAir stake at a tiny profit through Bear , Stearns . 
He confers big trading commissions on Wall Street firms . 
By the second half of 1990 , USAir stock could hit 60 , says Helane Becker of Shearson Lehman Hutton . 
She thinks traders should buy the stock if it tumbles to 35 . 
While he has bought and sold some USAir shares in recent days , he says that contrary to rumors , he has n't tried to unload his holding . 
Mr. Steinhardt adds that he bought USAir stock earlier this year as `` part of a fundamental investment in the airline group . '' 
`` I do n't think you 'll find I 'm making a radical change in my traditional investment style , '' Mr. Steinhardt says . 
Commodore , West Chester , Pa. , had said in August that it was consolidating manufacturing to cut costs and expected to be profitable in the fiscal first quarter . 
The price can be expected to erode further , because the loss estimate came after the market closed . 
Commodore has said it expects sales to rebound , but market researchers have said that sales of the low-end products may finally be trailing off . 
Some issues were affected by Tuesday 's devastating earthquake in the San Francisco area . 
Standard & Poor 's 500-Stock Index rose 0.60 to 341.76 , the Dow Jones Equity Market Index rose 0.71 to 320.54 and the New York Stock Exchange Composite Index gained 0.43 to 189.32 . 
Some 822 New York Stock Exchange issues advanced in price , while 668 declined . 
The average dropped 6.40 to 1247.87 and has now lost 21.7 % of its value since the losing streak began Oct. 10 . 
Traders cited anticipation of the consumer price report for September , due today , and tomorrow 's expiration of October stock-index futures and options as major factors in the slowdown . 
The early move essentially established the day 's trading range , and traders said they saw little of the program activity that has battered the market recently . 
I expected to see more volatility as some of the institutions who were spooked last Friday did some selling , '' said Raymond F. DeVoe , a market strategist at Legg Mason Wood Walker , Baltimore . 
`` I would suspect that a lot of investment committees are looking into whether -LRB- they -RRB- want to be in stocks at all , '' he said . 
Marsh & McLennan advanced 3 1\/8 to 75 7\/8 , Alexander & Alexander Services climbed 2 to 32 and Corroon & Black firmed 1 7\/8 to 37 1\/2 . 
Loews , the parent of CNA Financial , rose 1 3\/8 to 123 1\/8 . 
The heavy-construction sector was the session 's best performer among Dow Jones industry groups ; Fluor rose 3\/4 to 33 3\/8 , Morrison Knudsen gained 2 1\/4 to 44 1\/8 , Foster Wheeler added 3\/8 to 18 1\/4 and Ameron climbed 2 3\/8 to 39 3\/4 . 
; Fluor rose 3\/4 to 33 3\/8 , Morrison Knudsen gained 2 1\/4 to 44 1\/8 , Foster Wheeler added 3\/8 to 18 1\/4 and Ameron climbed 2 3\/8 to 39 3\/4 . 
CalMat advanced 2 3\/4 to 28 3\/4 , Lone Star Industries gained 1 3\/4 to 29 1\/4 , Lafarge rose 1 to 19 1\/2 , Southdown added 5\/8 to 24 5\/8 and Eljer Industries rose 1 1\/4 to 24 7\/8 . 
; the two bank holding companies , based in San Francisco , were forced to curtail some operations due to the temblor . 
The stock had been on the decline since the financing for the UAL buy-out fell through on Friday and developer Donald Trump subsequently withdrew a takeover offer of $ 120 a share for AMR . 
; 2.8 million shares changed hands . 
PaineWebber repeated a buy recommendation on the stock and raised its 1990 earnings estimate by 35 cents a share , to $ 5.10 . 
Analysts at several brokerage firms lowered their 1989 and 1990 earnings estimates on the company after its third-quarter results proved disappointing . 
The company , citing market conditions , postponed a $ 200 million debt offer . 
The market for system-management software for Digital 's hardware is fragmented enough that a giant such as Computer Associates should do well there . 
For one thing , Digital , Maynard , Mass. , has sold fewer machines . 
Revenue fell 12.7 % to $ 596.8 million from $ 684 million , although some of the decline was caused by discontinued operations . 
The 1988 quarter also included one-time gains totaling about $ 35 million . 
Surplus power would be sold on the open market , Enron said . 
Interest expense in the 1988 third quarter was $ 75.3 million . 
Sumner M. Redstone , Viacom 's chairman , said Viacom `` emerged from our leveraged buy-out structure and gained substantial operating and financial flexibility through '' the bank pact . 
Most of the factory closings and job cutbacks will affect Trinova 's Aeroquip operations , which manufacture automotive plastics , hoses and other industrial and automotive parts . 
Sales rose 8 % to $ 456.2 million from $ 422 million . 
It 's sort of a Chapter 11 situation , '' he added , referring to the U.S. bankruptcy law that protects companies from creditors while they restructure . 
Calisto Tanzi , Odeon 's owner , will retain his 23.34 % stake . 
`` We think that it 's going to be far more favorable to own a station before the law is passed than to try to buy one afterward , '' Mr. Fiorini said . 
They are telling people what roads are closed and just keeping the public informed has helped to keep the panic down , '' said James Ball , a station supervisor at Daly City Police Department . 
Radio stations provided an emergency number for people who smelled gas but did n't know how to turn off their gas supply . 
Sterling , which estimated the value of the contract at $ 150 million , said NASA selected another bidder for final negotiations . 
Revenue slipped 4.6 % to $ 835 million from $ 876 million . 
Revenue was flat at $ 2.59 billion . 
`` We did see some relief in raw material costs , but it was n't sufficient to offset the drop in sales prices , '' James R. Kuse , the company 's chairman and chief executive officer said in a statement . 
Georgia Gulf had 24.9 million shares outstanding on average in the quarter , compared with 28.6 million in the third quarter of 1988 , adjusted for a stock split paid in January 1989 . 
The amount would help Los Angeles cope in the first few weeks after its own anticipated quake , while waiting for federal assistance to arrive . 
The company had sought increases totaling $ 80.3 million , or 22 % . 
Those activities generated $ 26.1 million in operating profit last year . But according to Great American , such profits do n't count toward meeting the San Diego savings bank 's new capitalization requirements under 1989 federal law . 
The new real estate unit would have a separate capital structure to comply with the law . 
The consolidation is expected to save $ 1 million a year in administrative costs , a Great American spokesman said . 
Mr. Lang will do away with expensive circulation drives , not to mention sales staff , and attempt to publish the 17-year-old magazine supported by circulation revenue alone . 
I want to publish one that succeeds , '' said Mr. Lang . 
He said Sassy will keep its irreverent tone , but added , `` We will keep a close watch on the editorial content of the magazine . '' 
; circulation has quickly passed the 500,000 mark and advertising pages have stabilized this year at more than 300 . 
What 's more , Mr. Lang says he has what all publishers wish for : a bona fide niche . 
It gets more mail in a month than McCall 's got in a year , and it 's not from mothers . 
I feel about Sassy like I did about Working Woman 10 years ago . '' 
Only recently has it been attractively redesigned and its editorial product improved . 
Success is expected to gain at least because of the recent folding of rival Venture , another magazine for growing companies . 
The joint venture is being undone , with McCall 's magazine being sold last summer to the New York Times Co. 's Magazine Group for about $ 80 million , and Time Warner agreeing to sell back its 50 % interest in Working Woman and Working Mother to Mr. Lang . 
The venture , formed in 1986 , was supposed to be Time 's low-cost , safe entry into women 's magazines . 
Mr. Lang surprised Time soon after joining forces when he said he would negotiate rates individually with advertisers , a practice common in broadcasting but considered taboo by magazine publishers . 
Until a recent comeback , it saw steep losses in ad pages and circulation . 
Time executives complained about the shoddy editorial quality , and in the end , one Time executive who asked not to be identified said , `` Frankly , McCall 's and the joint venture were an embarrassment . '' 
`` Their management changed right after -LCB- the venture was formed -RCB- , and I do n't think they were comfortable getting into the competitive wars of women 's service magazines . '' 
`` We write straight for women on their level , '' he said . 
`` We do n't have passive readers . '' 
Mr. Lang points out that even Success , in part , fits the company 's image , since about 30 % of its readership is female . 
She will oversee Working Woman , Working Mother and Success magazines , and retain her post as publisher of Working Woman . 
`` We would have to go outside to banks to get the money and I am not ready to do that , '' he said . 
There is plenty of work to be done on what we have . 
Revenue rose 17 % to $ 1.62 billion from $ 1.39 billion . 
It ordered Rep. Bates to write letters of apology to Ms. Bertussi and to a second complainant , Karen Dryden . 
`` I accept the resolution of the matter by the Ethics Committee , '' he said . 
Based on the number of Mesa shares outstanding not already owned by StatesWest , the proposed takeover would have a value of about $ 15.3 million . 
In response to the specific offer , Gary Risley , Mesa vice president , said management will ask directors to employ a financial consultant to advise them . 
Fleet 's net was $ 96.4 million , or 86 cents a primary share , compared with $ 85.8 million , or 79 cents a share , a year earlier . 
Last year , the company had net income of $ 117.3 million , or $ 1.30 a share . 
It said it will take a $ 10 million fourth-quarter charge against discontinued operations , reflecting certain write-downs and the planned sale of a unit . 
A revised provision would be included for the conversion of short-term claims inside the net to long-term loans outside the net . 
The latest quarter included a gain of $ 193.3 million , or $ 2.46 a share , from the sale of New York Times Cable , completed in August . 
The decline primarily reflected the dilution from acquiring McCall 's , Golf World -LRB- U.S. -RRB- and Sailing World magazines ; lower equity earnings from the forest-products group because of price discounting and an unfavorable exchange rate , and an 8.7 % decline in advertising linage at the New York Times , the company 's flagship newspaper . 
Advertising volume at the company 's 35 regional newspapers decreased 1.1 % . 
Mr. Taylor , a 36-year-old state senator from Bay St. Louis , won 65 % of the vote in a district that has voted Republican in the past five presidential elections and that was once represented by Republican U.S. Sen. Trent Lott . 
Mr. Anderson , a former Lott aide , received campaign assistance from the senator and from President Bush , who visited the district last week . 
In most cases damage to company facilities and operations was minimal . 
Business was slow because many companies were closed yesterday . 
Most of its 4,500 workers were at work yesterday , and no production slowdown was anticipated as long as electricity remains available . 
The company expects to work a ship due in today with minimal delays , despite sporadic power . 
Offices were closed yesterday . 
Company , with 1,750 workers in area , is fully functional . 
Backup computer tapes were hand-carried to an IBM office in Philadelphia , and the company expects its mainframe to be up in a few days . 
It expects to be fully operational by next week . 
The company does n't expect any shipping delays . 
That facility should reopen today . 
A spokesman said sales are expected to be hurt , but the losses are covered by insurance . 
Company expects to be fully operational by next week . 
The company plans to be fully operational today . 
Business was n't disrupted . 
There was limited production of some models yesterday , but it was n't clear when the normal 750-car-a-day pace will resume . 
Plant officials are still assessing damage to parts suppliers and Port of Oakland facilities that handle shipments to the plant . 
The computer system was operating , so orders could be taken . 
Others had lesser damage and there were no injuries among workers . 
Damage will be `` easily in the millions , '' the company said . 
It expects any impact on its business to be slight . 
The company expects all branches to reopen today . 
The company said it was doing a brisk business in computer power-surge protectors , cables and uninterruptable power sources . 
The plant and its 8,500 employees gradually will resume operations over the next several days , the company said . 
The concern 's National Service Division opened a center for emergency service in Walnut Creek as part of its disaster-recovery plan . 
; major problems transporting products to those stores that remained open ; no numbers on how many stores closed . 
; no numbers on how many stores closed . 
Office closed yesterday at 4:30 p.m. EDT . 
St. Louis Southwestern Railway Co. unit halted all service Tuesday night but has since restored some freight lines and limited commuter service between San Francisco and San Jose . 
Closed yesterday due to power difficulties . 
Caltrans in Sacramento said total damage from the collapsed highway is estimated at around $ 500 million . 
Caltrans plans to add a second deck for buses and car pools above the median of a 2.5-mile stretch of the Harbor Freeway just south of Los Angeles , near the Memorial Coliseum . 
Los Angeles County Supervisor Kenneth Hahn yesterday vowed to fight the introduction of double-decking in the area . 
; Tuesday 's was 
While the pillars did have long metal bars running vertically through them for reinforcement , they apparently lacked an adequate number of metal `` ties '' that run horizontally through the column , said Leo Parker , a structural engineer in Los Angeles . 
Caltrans today uses a variation of the design Mr. Parker describes , with spiraling steel rods inside . 
The firm brought in to strengthen the structure could be liable as well . 
Given the seismic history of the Bay Area , `` it seems to me that a 6.9 earthquake is a foreseeable event . '' 
`` The work was done properly , '' he said . 
`` Basically , we had a severe earthquake of significant duration and it was just something the structure could n't withstand . '' 
`` The reason is that the technology is such that we 're not able to retrofit multi-column structures , '' he said . 
Mr. Toussie said he would respond to Lionel 's suit after his lawyers review it . 
Machinists already have rejected a proposal that called for a 4 % pay increase and 8 % bonus in the first year . 
In the second year , workers would receive a 3 % wage boost and a 3 % bonus , followed by a 3 % increase without a bonus in the third year . 
As the strike enters its 15th day today , some members are getting nervous , the spokesman conceded , but the majority of the 55,000 Machinists are prepared to `` wait it out as long as it takes . 
Coupled with his current 1.2 million shares and 4 % held by an associate , the stake would have given him control of 55 % of the concern . 
Some of it was necessary to get federal help flowing to victims , but some seemed designed mostly to project an image of a White House in action . 
, who was in California ; made a televised statement of concern ; signed a disaster proclamation ; received a written report from the Federal Emergency Management Agency ; and visited FEMA headquarters . 
; signed a disaster proclamation ; received a written report from the Federal Emergency Management Agency ; and visited FEMA headquarters . 
; received a written report from the Federal Emergency Management Agency ; and visited FEMA headquarters . 
On his FEMA visit , Mr. Bush said that he hoped there would be `` less carping '' about the emergency office 's performance this time , adding that the agency `` took a hit '' for its reaction to Hurricane Hugo . 
He visited the Hugo devastation but not until after local leaders urged him to do so . 
In 1906 , the rupture was 300 miles long and a couple feet wide . 
`` It liquefies in a patchwork quilt pattern . 
You can drive piles on it and build on it . '' 
He cited the example of San Francisco 's financial district , where many new glass towers survived almost unscathed . 
`` We 've known for years and years we 've got lots of old -LCB- pre-1950s -RCB- unreinforced brick and masonry buildings . '' 
It 's a danger . 
We know it 's there . 
`` The Bay Area has three very dangerous faults , the San Andreas , the Hayward fault and the Calaveras fault . 
It -LCB- Tuesday 's quake -RCB- has n't solved our problem . 
In California , this is the reality . 
Other , as yet unnamed , cities will follow . 
It switched to a caffeine-free formula using its new Coke in 1985 . 
In Oakland , hopes faded for finding any more survivors within the concrete and steel from the collapse of an interstate highway . 
Bush declared the region a major disaster area and the military was mobilized to prevent looting . 
Honecker , who was reported ill following gall-bladder surgery in August , said he was resigning for health reasons . 
The country was renamed the Republic of Hungary . 
Like other Soviet bloc nations , it had been known as a `` people 's republic '' since 
Last year 's figure was down from 13.4 % in 1987 and marked the fifth consecutive annual decline in the poverty rate . 
Per capita income rose 1.7 % to $ 13,120 , but median family income fell 0.2 % . 
Shamir said Tuesday that he was prepared to risk a policy conflict with the U.S. over an Egyptian plan to hold direct Israeli-Palestinian talks , which the premier 's Likud bloc opposes . 
Christian legislators are insisting on a Syrian troop pullout from Lebanon before agreeing to political changes giving the nation 's Moslems a greater role in Beirut 's government . 
The decline broke a streak of 10 quarters in which Dow posted earnings increases . 
Sales in the latest quarter rose 2 % to $ 4.25 billion from $ 4.15 billion a year earlier . 
That acquisition could further dilute earnings per share this year , the company spokeswoman said . 
Dow has n't said exactly what impact the Marion acquisition will have on 1989 earnings . 
Another problem was a 7 % increase in operating costs at a time when revenue was rising by only 2 % . 
Sales for the latest nine months rose 7.7 % to $ 13.34 billion from $ 12.38 billion in the year-ago period . 
While the book amply justifies its subtitle , the title itself is dubious . 
What shook America was not a battle for justice but for naked power , in which an army of judicial activists rolled over a judge they had demonized . 
I doubt that . 
Given Democratic frustration with the Reagan victories and Court appointments , the contingency plans in place , and Mr. Bork 's paper trail of vulnerable writings , it was pretty clear that Judge Bork never stood much chance of being confirmed . 
As Mr. Bronner himself says , the smell of `` raw meat '' was in the air . 
Ralph Neas was the organizing genius , whipping a conglomerate of pressure groups into an irresistible attacking force . 
Harvard 's Laurence Tribe was the constitutional heavy , laying out legal strategies for the senators and witnesses to follow . 
Sen. Kennedy , never mind his dubious credentials for the moral high ground , emoted brilliantly . 
Republican Sen. Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania engaged the nominee in a verbal contest aimed at showing that Mr. Bork was willing to stretch the Constitution in one area -LRB- free speech -RRB- while remaining rigid in all the others . 
It achieved a good media play , and enabled Sen. Specter and others to vote against Mr. Bork out of `` conscience . '' 
Further ammunition came from left legal theorist Ronald Dworkin , who in the New York Review of Books painted a picture of a constitutional zombie willfully reading his personal prejudices into the Constitution , particularly in the area of `` original intent . '' 
The charge of being `` outside the mainstream '' of legal thought gravely undercut Mr. Bork 's scholarly standing , leaving him bleeding on the platform . 
Demographics converged with `` mainstream '' and demonizing to seal Robert Bork 's fate . 
The word went forth to every law school that those with federal court ambitions must travel a safe constitutional journey , with no paper trail and no bite to their tongue or pen . 
He has too readily swallowed the case for the activist law school culture . 
Probing more deeply into the doctrine of `` judicial restraint , '' he would have found a long history going back to the great decisions of Justice Holmes . 
His strength lies in his majoritarian doctrine , which keeps the Court clear of transient group pressures and leaves most decisions in a democracy to elected legislatures and executives . Unfortunately , Mr. Bork failed to distinguish between such pressures and the emergence of great issues critical to a society that must be settled judicially if it is to cohere . 
Unfortunately , Mr. Bork failed to distinguish between such pressures and the emergence of great issues critical to a society that must be settled judicially if it is to cohere . 
In our time abortion has become another , best left to a line of Supreme Court decisions rather than to the chaos of 50 state legislatures . 
A reflective and growing consensus of Americans clearly wishes to apply the right to privacy in contraceptive matters -LRB- decided in the Griswold case -RRB- to abortion as well . 
One can understand Mr. Bork 's fear that the new right to privacy will become intolerably stretched , though a Supreme Court composed of men and women with realism , guts and a sense of limits should be able to manage it . 
What is certain is that if Americans allow another happening like the degrading Bork confirmation circus , it will be at their peril . 
A corporation that wants to sell stock or bonds goes to a Wall Street firm , which purchases the securities outright , accepting the financial risk of finding buyers . 
If the investment bank can sell the securities at a higher price than it paid the issuer , it makes a profit . 
That was slightly above Sotheby 's presale estimate of $ 111 million . 
Normally , Sotheby 's would have earned 20 % of the total in commissions . 
We have some level of financial interest '' in the collection . 
`` We do n't disclose specifics . '' 
It was the highest bid in history for a work of art . 
`` There seems to be a lot of art for sale , but there 's more competition . 
The competition gives the seller the ability to cut a better deal , '' he says . 
At a news conference last May announcing plans for the auction , Sotheby 's estimated its value in excess of $ 100 million . 
More recently , Sotheby 's has predicted the collection will fetch $ 140 million . 
`` The consumer has to throw out the idea that the auction house is a disinterested middleman , '' says New York art dealer David Tunick . 
While he adds that he has no problem with auction houses who sell works in which they have a financial interest , `` It ought not to be hidden in some small print . '' 
Dealers and auction houses `` know if they do n't lay out a half a million for this , another one will ; it 's that competitive . '' 
; it 's that competitive . '' 
Mr. Krenz has followed much the same career path as Mr. Honecker : Both spent years overseeing the Freie Deutsche Jugend , the youth group that is the communist regime 's principal tool for stamping young Germans into socialist citizens . 
: Both spent years overseeing the Freie Deutsche Jugend , the youth group that is the communist regime 's principal tool for stamping young Germans into socialist citizens . 
More recently , Mr. Krenz has been in charge of East German security , and is the youngest member of the ruling Politburo . 
Abandoning socialism means abandoning the East German state 's reason for existence , and with it the justification for its watchdogs and its Wall . 
In this scenario it 's hard to imagine that a pale imitation of the Federal Republic could avoid being pulled into some kind of tie -- economic , federal or stronger -- with West Germany . 
Cartoonists in West Germany have already mocked the exodus by imagining an advertisement placed by Mr. Honecker : `` Wanted : one people . '' 
The West German embassies in Prague , Budapest and Warsaw are continuing to find refugees at their gates . 
Two of the last gestures of the Honecker regime were to close the border to Czechoslovakia and install halogen lights in some spots along the frontier . 
When Poland moves to reform , it can at least lean on its past : However flawed and short-lived Joseph Pilsudski 's interwar republic , it was a nonsocialist democracy . 
: However flawed and short-lived Joseph Pilsudski 's interwar republic , it was a nonsocialist democracy . 
Czech reformers can recall the Wilsonian ideals of the same period in their country . 
Even the Soviet Union has Peter the Great to rediscover , should it choose to . 
Beyond that , it has to compete with West Germany for a claim to the German identity . 
Up to now , the main weapon of the `` worker and peasant state '' has been the ideology of socialism . 
Without Moscow 's military and party behind it , East Germany runs the risk of disintegrating . 
If it goes capitalist , and increases trade with West Germany , it will convert itself , willy-nilly , into an economic annex of the Federal Republic . 
There 's a certain cruel logic at work here : It 's particularly appropriate -- and tragic -- that the land that produced Karl Marx should prove socialism 's failure in an experiment that uses its own people as controls . 
: It 's particularly appropriate -- and tragic -- that the land that produced Karl Marx should prove socialism 's failure in an experiment that uses its own people as controls . 
Ideologues are the last to surrender , and Germans are an ideological people . 
The protesters who greeted Mikhail Gorbachev at East Berlin 's airport earlier this month were n't shouting `` Go U.S.A '' -- they were chanting `` Gorby , Help Us . '' 
Helmut Kohl 's governing conservative coalition is proving admirably true to the West German constitution by making more than 500,000 people of German descent automatic citizens this year alone . 
`` The main problem , '' Mr. Reinhold said in an East German radio interview monitored by Radio Free Europe in Munich , stems from the fact that `` the GDR is different '' from other East European states . 
`` What kind of right to exist , '' he asked , `` would a capitalist German Democratic Republic have alongside a capitalist Federal Republic ? '' 
Computer and software companies in the region are expecting virtually no long-term disruption in shipments . 
The provisions , in deficit-reduction bills recently passed by the House and Senate , could raise the price tags of such deals by up to 10 % and cool the takeover boom . 
The drop , following a 6.2 % decline in August , indicates the industry is still being hurt by the Fed 's anti-inflation battle . 
A similar proposal may be introduced soon by Senate Democrats . 
UAL 's stock fell $ 6.25 , to $ 191.75 . 
The Dow Jones industrials gained 4.92 , to 2643.65 . 
The British conglomerate cited the recent turmoil in financial markets . 
The London-based concern will sell most of its ad unit to France 's Eurocom . 
The retailer was unable to find a buyer for the building . 
`` No one is willing to place a firm bet that the stock market wo n't take another tumultuous ride . '' 
Sterling was quoted at $ 1.5920 , up from $ 1.5753 late Tuesday . 
Analysts said the additional liquidity should tend to reduce the federal funds rate . 
They note that the dollar remains extremely vulnerable to the slightest bad news from the stock exchange . 
A slight recovery in the stock market gave currency traders confidence to push the dollar higher before the unit dropped back by day 's end . 
The figures , due for release Friday , are expected to show an uptick in inflation to 4.8 % from 4.7 % in August . 
The rally spread into European markets , where traders were still betting that the earthquake disrupted the San Francisco area 's large oil refining plants . 
At the opening of the New York Mercantile Exchange , West Texas Intermediate for November delivery shot up 10 cents a barrel , to $ 20.85 , still on the belief that the refineries were damaged . 
For more than the past year , even the rumor of a major West Coast refinery shutdown has been enough to spark a futures rally because the gasoline market is so tight . 
Most said they shut down their petroleum pipeline operations as a precaution but did n't see any immediate damage . 
Gasoline terminals were also largely unhurt , they said . 
Gasoline for November delivery was off 1.26 cents a gallon to 54.58 cents . 
Heating oil finished at 60.6 cents , down 0.45 cent . 
`` One is the panic , the earthquake in San Francisco , which is positive . '' 
After the market closed Tuesday , the American Petroleum Institute had reported that crude stocks increased by 5.7 million barrels in the week ended Friday , which traders viewed as bearish . 
`` The problem is that while on the surface everything is all right , the question is , '' said Mr. Barakat , `` was there any structural damage to the pipelines or anything else . '' 
The December contract declined 1.85 cents a pound to $ 1.2645 . 
According to one analyst , workers at the Cananea copper mine in Mexico , which has n't been operating since it was declared bankrupt by the Mexican government in late August , are set to return to work . 
The analyst said it will take about two to three months before the mine begins to produce copper in significant quantities . 
He added that , while there has n't been any official announcement as yet , the Highland Valley mine strike in British Columbia , which has lasted more than three months , is regarded as settled . 
`` There are still negotiations taking place on whether there will be a loss of jobs , which has been a critical issue all along , '' he said . 
Both of these mines are normally major suppliers of copper to Japan , which has been buying copper on the world market . 
The first analyst said that the Japanese , as well as the Chinese , bought copper earlier in the week in London , but that this purchasing has since slackened as the supply situation , at least over the long term , appears to have improved . 
`` Now that the supply situation seems to be improving , it would be best for traders to switch their concentration to the demand side . '' 
`` Along with these factors , other economic reports suggest a slowing of the economy , which could mean reduced copper usage , '' he said . 
The March delivery ended with an advance of 0.16 cent a pound to 14.27 cents , for a two-day gain of 0.3 cent . 
The announcement was made because of reports Tuesday that Cuba would delay shipments to Japan scheduled for later this year , into early next year . 
The dealer said the quantity mentioned in the Japanese announcement is so small that it 's meaningless . 
The dealer said India might be the real factor that is keeping futures prices firm . 
That country recently bought 200,000 tons of sugar and had been expected to seek a like quantity last week but did n't . 
Cattle prices have risen in recent weeks on speculation that the government 's quarterly report will signal tighter supplies of beef . 
Among other things , the government is expected to report that the number of young cattle placed on feedlots during the quarter slipped 3 % . 
Rejection has been the major obstacle in the approximately 30,000 organ transplants performed world-wide each year . 
Only two of 111 transplants have been rejected . 
`` We consider it a life-saving drug , like one for AIDS , '' said Dr. John Fung , an immunologist at the University of Pittsburgh . 
`` The side effects -LCB- of cyclosporine -RCB- have made the penalty for its success rather high , '' Dr. Starzl said . 
He said that the research team had no financial stake in the drug . 
To be sure , the threat has hit home down here . 
Such spillover effects give the state a right to intervene in the marketplace and temporarily coordinate allocation of resources . 
Why should they have to co-exist with opportunists rushing in to turn a quick profit ? 
Give him an F for his failure to understand the ethics of economic equity . 
They set up absurd situations , detached from reality , and then try to reason from them . 
I 'm surprised he did n't advocate letting people loot , since that behavior can also be foreseen in a disaster and `` every individual has an incentive to alter the distribution of income in his favor . '' 
They divert law-enforcement resources at a time they are most needed for protecting lives and property . 
In a free market , his insurance rates can be raised to recover insurance-company losses . 
Mine comes from seeing thriving communities devastated -- but only temporarily . 
The shock of seeing homes destroyed and city services disrupted may cause some to confuse priorities such as the true economic value of a freezer full of meat . 
His theoretical approach and its publication in this venerable paper are no doubt a noteworthy accomplishment for him . 
Too bad theory fails in practice . 
The businesses subscribing to Mr. Laband 's effective price system will be remembered when normalcy returns . 
Perhaps , considering the value of our time , we will be unable to patronize their establishments in the post-Hugo era . 
Though the Cubs ' championship season ended with the National League playoffs , a revival of the Organic Theater 's production of `` Bleacher Bums , '' a play in nine innings set in the Wrigley Field bleachers , continues within spitting distance of the ballpark . 
The Wilbur translation is remarkable -- well worth a read and even better seen in the theater if you ever have the opportunity . 
If Mr. Wilbur 's translation is a finely ground lens through which we see the pettiness and corruption of 17th-century Paris , Mr. Falls 's production is a mirror in which we see ourselves . 
Mr. Falls transfers the setting to Hollywood , and transforms the characters into what passes for aristocracy there -- agents , producers , actors , writers and sycophants . Mr. Bartlett had slimmed Moliere 's cast of characters to six and set them in the London media world of Thatcherite Britain . 
Mr. Falls transfers the setting to Hollywood , and transforms the characters into what passes for aristocracy there -- agents , producers , actors , writers and sycophants . 
Mr. Falls kept the form , but Americanized it with Mr. Bartlett 's further help . 
Nobody smiled onstage , and nobody in the audience was encouraged to laugh . 
Led by a near-perfect performance by Alan Wilder as Max , the father , the play is at once an appalling and hilarious dissection of a family 's rage , bitterness , fear and isolation . 
Sam , Max 's brother , has escaped the flesh by working as a liveried chauffeur and never seeking a wife . 
Teddy , the eldest of Max 's sons , has made the most dramatic escape by becoming a professor of philosophy at an American university . 
As Ruth , Moira Harris , a large and beautiful woman who may be our next Colleen Dewhurst , begins almost immediately to overpower each of the men . 
We have seen her develop within a few hours from a shy and unknown in-law to a goddess of the flesh who will replace the dead mother , and then some . 
Within a year he hopes Steppenwolf will move into a new 500-seat theater on that site . 
The troupe currently performs in a converted dairy that seats 211 and provides little capacity for staging anything beyond a simple one-set production . 
`` If we wanted to stage ` Death of a Salesman , ' `` Mr. Sagan says , `` Willie Loman would have to live in a ranch house because of the low ceiling . '' 
It 's currently forced to turn away many potential subscribers beyond the 13,000 who can be accommodated in its present digs . 
For all the attention that Chicago theater has received during the past decade , not one new building has been devoted to it . 
The rest , he is confident , can be raised . 
His board members alone have pledged $ 800,000 and he is just beginning to massage local foundations and corporations . 
What will Mr. Sagan do with his new theater building if the allure of Hollywood and Broadway proves too much for such Steppenwolf stalwarts as John Malkovich -LRB- `` Dangerous Liaisons '' -RRB- , Joan Allen -LRB- `` The Heidi Chronicles '' -RRB- , and Glenne Headly -LRB- `` Lonesome Dove '' -RRB- , and the company crumbles ? 
It rose more than the New York Stock Exchange Composite , which improved 0.2 % . 
Among bigger stocks , the Nasdaq 100 Index rose 1 % , or 4.56 , to 453.05 , while the Dow Jones Industrial Average was up 0.2 % . 
While the industrial average rallied on Monday following last Friday 's collapse , the OTC market , which did n't suffer too badly during the correction , tumbled . 
As investors speculated about the long - and short-term implications , shares of a number of companies that might either profit or face problems because of the disaster were actively traded . 
`` The companies just gave back what they had reserved for , '' he said . 
`` Now , they 'll have to increase their coffers to protect for the future and that means rate increases . '' 
Safeco fell 1\/8 to 32 5\/8 on 462,900 shares . 
Ohio Casualty rose 1\/4 to 51 3\/4 on 137,200 shares . 
St. Paul Cos. jumped 2 to 59 3\/4 on 517,500 shares . 
Academy Insurance fell 1\/32 to 1 3\/16 ; but volume totaled 1.2 million shares . 
SunGard 's stock rose 1 3\/4 to 21 1\/4 on 194,000 shares . 
Apple Computer gained 1 to 48 1\/4 ; Ashton-Tate rose 3\/8 to 10 3\/8 . 
; Ashton-Tate rose 3\/8 to 10 3\/8 . 
Shares of biotechnology companies in the area were also higher . 
Chiron was up 1\/2 to 27 and Cetus gained 1\/2 to 16 3\/8 . 
Microsoft advanced 1 7\/8 to 80 1\/2 and Lotus Development added 1 1\/4 to 32 1\/2 . 
Power could n't be restored at the company 's San Francisco headquarters to allow trading yesterday morning . 
The company earned $ 6.6 million in the year-earlier quarter . 
Analysts in London believe investors , despite their stampede to dump takeover stocks , should hold on tight to their Jaguar shares , this newspaper 's Heard on the Street column said yesterday . 
Genetics Institute disclosed recently that it is embroiled in a dispute with Boehringer Mannheim , which distributes the drug , regarding the usability of some batches . 
Ciba-Geigy is a major pharmaceutical concern based in Basel , Switzerland . 
Chiron , another pharmaceutical concern , is based in Emeryville , Calif . 
Connaught is a biotechnology research and vaccine manufacturing concern . 
Merieux officials are expected to meet with federal officials in Ottawa today to discuss the decision . 
He helped persuade 10 of these senators to support him and Majority Leader George Mitchell on these grounds . 
The budget reconciliation had to be dealt with by the Oct. 15 deadline , and these Senate Democrats refused to agree to allow a vote to append capital gains to the budget bill , knowing it would pass . 
It could throw in the towel and hope to win on capital gains late this month , or it could follow the White House strategy , to veto reconciliation unless capital gains was appended . 
It endorsed the White House strategy , believing it to be the surest way to victory . 
Mr. Rahn was shocked , telephoning the office of Richard Darman , director of the Office of Management and Budget , and the administration 's chief strategist on this issue . 
The stock market , after all , represents the collective expectations about the value of the future income stream of the nation 's capital stock , discounted to present value . 
The value traded on the exchanges is close to $ 3 trillion . 
We 're talking real money . 
Mr. Rahn was pointing out an elephant rumbling through Wall Street while conventional wisdom had fastened on the UAL flea . 
They are economists and financial reporters who sympathize with the view that a capital-gains tax cut benefits the rich . 
The market rebound Monday followed weekend assurances from Mr. Darman that the administration has other plans to win the cut , which is alive and well . 
It would inevitably lead to an increase in marginal income-tax rates in 1990 , he thinks , when the White House is forced to ask for higher taxes to meet budget targets . 
The counter-argument , which he has heard , is that if he and his fellow Democrats are successful in killing the president 's proposal , the revenue gap will open up tremendously in 1990 because of the weakened economy . 
In this atmosphere , there would be no serious consideration of tax increases . 
No tax increases would be necessary . 
In Washington and on Wall Street . 
The TVA said the refinancing should save $ 75 million a year in interest payments . 
The TVA currently plans to issue a total of $ 6.7 billion in bonds to refinance its high-interest debt . 
The Treasury contended that TVA could n't borrow from both it and the public debt market . 
Those are Templeton Global Income , Templeton Emerging Markets and now the Value Fund . 
The fund closed yesterday in New York Stock Exchange composite trading at $ 9.625 , up 12.5 cents . 
In Big Board trading yesterday , James River shares closed at $ 28.375 , down 12.5 cents . 
Including a sale of stock last February , Mr. Sherry has sold 88 % of his stake in the company this year , according to SEC filings . 
Three of the utility 's directors have at least doubled their holdings in the company since July . 
Mr. Taft , who is also president of Taft Broadcasting Co. , said he bought the shares because he keeps a utility account at the brokerage firm of Salomon Brothers Inc. , which had recommended the stock as a good buy . 
Salomon Brothers confirmed that it has had a buy recommendation on the stock for about two years . 
A company spokesman said he could n't explain their sudden bullishness . 
`` I do n't know of any news or anything unusual happening here , '' said Bruce Stoecklin , director of media services . 
The Beebes alleged that toxic fumes from the carpets made them sick . 
As a result of their illness , the Beebes said , they lost $ 1.8 million in wages and earnings . 
He said that ill effects from new carpets manifest themselves immediately but that the Beebes ' symptoms appeared months later . 
Scientists are only beginning to understand what causes sick-building syndrome and much of that research was unavailable when the Beebes filed the case , she said . 
`` This project is ready to move , '' said State Urban Development Corp. Chairman Vincent Tese . 
As part of the agreement with the state , the developers -- a partnership of Park Tower Realty and Prudential Insurance Co. of America -- said they would not proceed with condemnation proceedings while there was `` significant litigation '' pending . 
To do so , the judge said , the U.S. courts must review the judicial process in the foreign country independently of the State Department 's assessment . 
He said that in this case he concurred with the State Department 's decision that Mr. Ahmad should be extradited . 
Mr. Gotlieb , who serves as a consultant to Stikeman , Elliott , one of Canada 's biggest law firms , is advising Pepper Hamilton 's Washington office on legal matters related to Canadian-U.S. investment , corporate finance and international transactions . 
I take these pronouncements , like many that have preceded them in past years , with a grain of salt . 
In an era of ` sound bites ' and instant opinion polls it is dangerous to apply broad labels to a single term . 
Early in October , six Arab nations in the Persian Gulf jacked up prices sharply . 
On Oct. 22 , led by Saudi Arabia , the world 's largest exporter , they embargoed oil shipments to the U.S. and to the Netherlands , Israel 's staunchest European ally . 
In 1956 , when Britain , France and Israel invaded Egypt to seize the Suez Canal , Arab producers cut off supplies to Europe . 
Texas simply pumped harder . 
By 1973 , the U.S. was bringing in two million barrels of Arab oil a day , more than 10 % of the 17.3 million barrels consumed daily . 
Japan and Europe , far more dependent on Mideast oil than the U.S. , would n't offend the Arabs or trade off their precious supplies . 
The U.S. did manage to supply the Dutch with oil by relabeling supplies ; once oil is shipped , no one can tell its source . 
; once oil is shipped , no one can tell its source . 
The spot dislocations that showed up were largely the result of confusion -LRB- much of it in Washington -RRB- , though that was cold comfort for drivers waiting in mile-long lines at the gas pumps . 
What the Arabs started , inflation finished . 
The figures do n't include substantial dividends on holdings of Bear Stearns stock . 
The latest period includes 14 months instead of 12 because Bear Stearns changed to a fiscal year ending in June instead of April . 
`` All of us are on a base salary of $ 200,000 if the firm makes nothing -- and that 's pretty low as far as Wall Street goes , '' Mr. Montgoris said . 
; an executive vice president , Michael L. Tarnopol , 53 , made nearly $ 3.4 million ; and two executive vice presidents , Vincent J. Mattone , 44 , and William J. Michaelcheck , 42 , made about $ 3.3 million each . 
`` Just because a particular element of the firm is down , '' such as stockbrokerage , `` does n't mean the executive committee should be paid less , '' he said . 
`` If there 's any coincidence about the departures it 's that they are leaving at a time when the business is in reasonably good shape and going forward very well . '' 
Last month , Morgan Grenfell announced its pretax profit rose 49.6 % to # 32.8 million in the first half , boosted by a healthy growth in its domestic and international corporate finance business . 
The 30-year issue was priced at a spread of 105 basis points above the Treasury 's 30-year bellwether bond . 
The 10-year issue was priced at a spread of 43 basis points above the Treasury 's 10-year note . 
The five-year issue was priced at a spread of 43 basis points above the Treasury 's comparable note . 
Par , a generic-drug maker that has been plagued by management problems , was already the subject of a federal criminal inquiry into the drug-approval process and a Food and Drug Administration investigation . 
The book noted changes made at the manufacturing level that were n't disclosed to the FDA . 
In July , Par and a 60%-owned unit agreed to plead guilty in that inquiry , as did another former Par official . 
Perry Levine , chairman , said Mr. Sawyer had `` taken significant steps '' to restore the company 's credibility and sense of professionalism and integrity . 
What do you say we all close down the poker game , go home and bank the $ 16 billion ? 
Social Security and spending for poor people are exempted . 
It will reduce spending in a very effective fashion . '' 
This attitude is being waved away by sophisticates around Washington as little more than tough talk . 
It looks to us like a golden opportunity for George Bush to chop off at the knees all this talk about a timid , unserious presidency . 
Mr. Bush would be acting in the public interest if he let the Washington elites who manipulate these budgets -- the bureaucrats , the lobbyists , the congressional staffers -- live for just one year on a restricted diet . 
Ask Tommy Lasorda ; thin is in . 
Senator Phil Gramm pointed out Monday that in the 20 years before Gramm-Rudman was enacted in 1985 , federal spending grew by about 11 % a year ; since the law , it 's grown at under 5 % annually . 
; since the law , it 's grown at under 5 % annually . 
Another major factor in this positive trend was Ronald Reagan 's decision early in his presidency to fight the budget war on the expenditure side rather than raising taxes . 
If Washington 's elites ever succeed in bursting the tax dam , Americans will be engulfed in a red sea of new spending programs , such as federalized child care . 
Others were the capital-gains cut , Section 89 repeal , the disabled workers bill , and the unprecedented reconsideration of the catastrophic health act . 
Republicans especially want a guarantee from the House leadership that they 'll get an up-or-down vote on the bills . 
This is the way government is supposed to work , with politicians taking responsibility for votes that their constituents can identify , instead of concealing them in the great reconciliation garbage truck . 
Those days are gone . 
Exchange seats hit a peak of $ 1,150,000 in September 1987 . 
Paris shares had a similar reaction , but most other European bourses posted gains , as did all major Asian and Pacific stock markets . 
The rise came a day after the year 's biggest drop on Monday , when the Nikkei fell 647.33 , or 1.8 % , in response to Friday 's 6.9 % plunge on Wall Street . 
Foreign investors reportedly started off selling but later joined in the buying . 
`` Nothing has changed fundamentally in the Tokyo market . '' 
There 's no huge buying , '' said Stephen Hill , head of equity sales at Jardine Fleming Securities Ltd. in Tokyo . 
`` Really brave views right now would be foolhardy . '' 
Construction shares that gained included Shimizu , which rose 130 to 2,080 . 
In the real estate sector , Mitsui Real Estate Development was up 100 at 2,760 , and Mitsubishi Estate gained 80 to 2,360 . 
It was down more than 40 points a half-hour before the close , marking a 61.5-point turnaround from its high , reached in the first 15 minutes of trading . 
The narrower Financial Times 30-share index fell 29.6 to 1730.7 . 
The unexpectedly wide U.S. August trade deficit of $ 10.77 billion hit an already jittery U.K. market in midafternoon . 
It was all over the place . 
If you bought , you wish you had n't , and if you sold , you wish you had n't . '' 
He said the current market `` is all about sentiment , and the sentiment in London is 90 % anxiety and worry . '' 
Britain 's economic fundamentals , he said , `` do n't look very bright . '' 
Morgan Grenfell , which has been mentioned in takeover rumors , rose 20 to 392 pence -LRB- $ 6.18 -RRB- a share . 
S.G. Warburg , a rumored target of some European banking concerns , finished 22 higher at 400 . 
Hambros rose 5 to 204 , and Schroders rose 25 to # 12.75 . 
Jaguar shares jumped 23 before easing to close at 654 , up 6 . 
It announced a 52 % plunge in pretax profit for the latest year . 
Bass ended up 3 higher at 966 , Guinness closed at 589 , down 7 , and Scottish & Newcastle dropped 11 to 359 , but Whitbread Class A shares rose 17 to 363 . 
Dealers said there was late talk of a Whitbread sale of brewing operations to Scottish & Newcastle . 
Traders attributed the action in them largely to defensive positioning in a volatile market . 
Cable & Wireless fell 20 to 478 . 
Racal Electric , which traded 11 million shares , declined 12 to 218 . 
Paris closed lower , and most Brussels shares were unable to trade for a second consecutive day because of technical problems . 
In Hong Kong , Sydney and Singapore -- the largest of those exchanges -- stocks recovered one-third to one-half of the ground they lost in Monday 's plunge , with major market indexes posting gains of 3.6 % to 4.4 % . 
In yesterday 's edition , it was incorrectly stated that the company 's share price has softened since August 1988 . 
Called a `` married put , '' the technique is carried out by purchasing a stock and simultaneously buying a put option on that stock . 
Because a put option gives its owner the right , but not the obligation , to sell a fixed number of shares of the stock at a stated price on or before the option 's expiration date , the investor is protected against a sudden drop in the stock 's price . 
That 's because the cost of buying put options eats into an investor 's profit when stock prices rise . 
`` You always want your house insured , but you do n't always feel the need for your investments to be insured . '' 
In either case , the investor faces three possible outcomes : 
The investor will be out the cost of the put , which is called the `` premium , '' and this loss will reduce the stock-market profit . 
The worst-case scenario would be if the put expires worthless . 
Once the stock price is less than the exercise price , or `` strike price , '' of the put , the gain will match the loss on the stock dollar for dollar . 
In this case , the investor 's risk would n't exceed 3.6 % of the total investment . 
That 's because it reduces the cost of the stock by the amount of premium received from the sale of the call . 
`` Many members feel there are important features of the House bill that should be enacted , '' Speaker Thomas Foley -LRB- D. , Wash . -RRB- said . 
`` If there is any support for reducing the bill , it is conditioned on their desire to see them passed in another form . '' 
`` This is a democratic process -- you ca n't slam-dunk anything around here . '' 
Yesterday 's edition incorrectly reported Monday 's trading volume as a record for the S&P 500 contract . 
In yesterday 's edition , the amount of new capital was misstated . 
The other , called the Solo , is battery operated and is the first high-performance radar detector that does n't need a power cord , the company said . 
Exports fell for the second month in a row , while imports rose to a record . 
Like most analysts , Mr. Dennis was hesitant to read too much into one month 's numbers ; but he said , `` It indicates perhaps that the balance in the U.S. economy is not as good as we 've been led to believe . '' 
The Dow Jones Industrial Average tumbled more than 60 points after the report 's release , before recovering to close 18.65 points lower at 2638.73 . 
`` It raises questions about more deep-seated problems , the budget deficit and the trade deficit and the seeming lack of ability to come to grips with them . '' 
On Oct. 14 of that year , the announcement of an unusually large August trade deficit helped trigger a steep market decline . 
The slide continued until the record 508-point market drop on Oct. 19 . 
Commerce Secretary Robert Mosbacher called the worsening trade figures `` disappointing after two very good months . '' 
`` That 's still an improvement over last year , but it leads one to conclude that basically we 've gotten all the mileage we can out of past dollar depreciation and past marginal cuts in the federal budget deficit . '' 
That 's because the budget deficit feeds an enormous appetite in this country for both foreign goods and foreign capital , overwhelming the nation 's capacity to export . 
Since March , exports have been virtually flat . 
The jump in imports stemmed from across-the-board increases in purchases of foreign goods . 
A computer with the optical device will still cost $ 6,495 , but from now on Next will outfit every computer with a hard drive and supply one at no cost to those who have already bought Next machines . 
Another factor was that customers were asking , `` Why do n't you give us a cheaper system ? '' Mr. Jobs said at a conference on university computing here . 
`` We 're extremely committed to optical storage technology '' he said . 
`` We think everything will go this way in a few years . '' 
`` We 'd still like to see a student model , '' priced at about $ 3,500 , said Ronald Johnson , director of academic computing at Minnesota 's Gustavus Adolphus College , which has bought eight Next machines . 
Most software is distributed on cheap floppy disks , but the Next computer does n't come with a device that reads them . 
He said he expects Lotus Development Corp. to introduce a Next version of its popular 1-2-3 spreadsheet program in 1990 . 
Every major maker offers computers with color displays . 
This contrasts with the year-ago quarter , when the company had net income of $ 11.7 million , or 45 cents a share , on revenue of $ 75.7 million . 
In the year-ago period , the company had profit of $ 34.3 million , or $ 1.32 a share . 
He said the company was `` encouraged by feedback '' it received from selected customers now testing Version 1.1 . 
He added gross margins and operating profit `` eroded quite dramatically '' from the prior quarter , along with sales of existing software product lines like Multimate and Framework . 
The company said in a statement that it expects to ship new products `` during the next two quarters . '' 
If the company can start to ship during this quarter , it could stem some , if not all of the red ink , he said . 
; lending practices vary widely by location . 
Profit from continuing operations rose 19 % . 
In the year-earlier quarter , net was $ 62.2 million , or 51 cents a share . 
In the chemicals segment , pretax profit rose 7 % to $ 69.2 million from $ 64.9 million . 
In the year-ago period , net included $ 32.7 million from discontinued operations . 
; the 1988 quarter did n't have such a payout . 
Nine-month per-share figures for 1989 reflect $ 12.9 million in preferred dividends that had no counterpart in the year-earlier quarter . 
About 900,000 units will continue to be publicly traded on the New York Stock Exchange , Enserch said . 
Mr. Sheinberg remains as executive vice president . 
; Mr. Vanourek was a former group vice president of Pitney Bowes Inc . 
That would increase Prospect 's ownership of the company 's fully-diluted shares outstanding to 20 % from 14.1 % . 
The former executives were indicted last October on charges of fraud , theft and conspiracy related to efforts by the company to win $ 400 million in Postal Service contracts . 
Prospect slipped 25 cents to $ 10.50 in national over-the-counter trading . 
Nothing , I assumed , would be more hopelessly dated than a political satire on the Iran-Contra affair . 
Though the play clearly is framed around the events of Iran-Contra , it takes in the wide sweep of scandals over the past 30 years . 
The witness table is center stage and below it , the paraphernalia for the ever-present media , in this case TNN , the Total News Network . 
Not only are there camera operators on all sides , but the proceedings are shown on monitors throughout the theater . 
Mr. Gelbart clearly feels that all the participants in a congressional hearing -- the witnesses , the lawyers , the interrogators and the news media -- are performers . 
He himself lives in a `` consecutive series of unnumbered houses in a town in Switzerland . '' 
Soon the studio is producing a $ 40 million picture called `` Tet , the Motion Picture , '' to distinguish it from `` Tet , the Offensive , '' as well as `` Tet , the Book '' and `` Tet , the Album . '' 
The picture , to be made in the Central American country of San Elvador , is a cover for sending $ 800 million of arms to Los Otros , the rebel group attempting to regain neighboring Ambigua , which has been taken over by the leftist dictator Dr. Overtega , a former podiatrist , who leads a revolutionary band of foot soldiers . 
Daniel von Bargen is ramrod-stiff but totally assured as Major Battle , mixing just the right brand of self-righteousness and patriotism ; Jeff Weiss is fire , brimstone and teary-eyed emotionalism as the far-right senator who serves as a friendly interrogator of Major Battle ; Zach Grenier is maddeningly officious playing a succession of lawyers ; Joseph Daly has the perfect `` aw , shucks '' demeanor of George Bush in his portrayal of the vice president ; and Ann McDonough is first-rate as a succession of witnesses ' wives . 
; Jeff Weiss is fire , brimstone and teary-eyed emotionalism as the far-right senator who serves as a friendly interrogator of Major Battle ; Zach Grenier is maddeningly officious playing a succession of lawyers ; Joseph Daly has the perfect `` aw , shucks '' demeanor of George Bush in his portrayal of the vice president ; and Ann McDonough is first-rate as a succession of witnesses ' wives . 
; Zach Grenier is maddeningly officious playing a succession of lawyers ; Joseph Daly has the perfect `` aw , shucks '' demeanor of George Bush in his portrayal of the vice president ; and Ann McDonough is first-rate as a succession of witnesses ' wives . 
; Joseph Daly has the perfect `` aw , shucks '' demeanor of George Bush in his portrayal of the vice president ; and Ann McDonough is first-rate as a succession of witnesses ' wives . 
With one she is pregnant , with Major Battle she is knitting an American flag , and as the vice president 's wife she rushes in with white hair , wearing a tailored suit and pearls , imitating Barbara Bush 's gestures down to the last detail . 
`` Mastergate '' is subtitled `` a play on words , '' and Mr. Gelbart plays that game as well as anyone . 
He describes a Mastergate flunky as one who experienced a `` meteoric disappearance '' and found himself `` handling blanket appeals at the Bureau of Indian Affairs . '' 
Mr. Gelbart deplores the obfuscation , the circumlocution and the debasement of language he sees on all sides . 
As the hearings begin , the self-important Sen. Bowman -LRB- Jerome Kilty -RRB- announces : `` Let me emphaticize one thing at the outset : We are not looking for hides to skin nor goats to scape . '' 
Major Battle himself speaks in pure Pentagonese : `` Without further monetary-stroke-military aid , scores of Ambiguan freedom lovers , who had gone way out on their life and limbs for us , were literally cut off at the knees without a paddle . '' 
At another point he intones : `` Publicity is a small price to pay for secrecy . '' 
In `` Mastergate , '' Mr. Gelbart has provided us not just one but two commodities that have all but disappeared from the Broadway theater : sharp political satire and an even sharper appreciation of the value of language . 
`` There 's no shortage of major things to do , '' he said . 
For this , a crane needed to be mounted on the Postels ' terrace . 
The Postels did not give permission . 
Nothing less , it seemed , could console them for their traumas . 
`` ` Get off your ... , ' he would bellow , '' say the authors . 
Rising in the firm , he became powerful and bland , though his new wife , Susan , made him shine in the gossip columns with her profligate spending habits and flamboyant frocks . 
Mr. Gutfreund collected $ 32 million , while Billy Salomon got $ 10 million , much less than if he had conducted the sale . 
`` I felt betrayed , '' he later said . 
Worse , Salomon 's timing had been off . 
Its profits , unlike Phibro 's , soared over the next two years , and had it held out , Salomon could have gotten an even bigger bundle . 
Often the genteel , conservative , long-term-oriented investment bankers were displaced by crude traders : `` When angered , he cursed so forcefully that his face reddened and his pale-blue eyes narrowed into tiny slits , '' the authors say of Lehman 's Lewis Glucksman . 
They were old-fashioned elegant gentlemen , who happened to be of German Jewish extraction . 
-LRB- A Fortune article on Saul Steinberg was entitled , `` Fear and Loathing in the Corporate Boardrooms . '' -RRB- 
Hostile takeovers are quite a new phenomenon . 
Second , a long-term shareholder of a good company need n't worry too much when the stock price drops temporarily : It will bounce back . 
: It will bounce back . 
As described in `` The New Crowd , '' they take on ambitious new wives , move to Greenwich , Conn. , or Bedford , N.Y. , buy OK pictures , and let their wives share the wealth with decorators . 
Having donated heavily to museums , they demand a place on their boards . 
If those who have the money do n't get involved with the museums and the charities , then City Hall will do it , badly . 
It has been rightly observed that the main thing wrong with tainted money is , t' ai nt enough of it . 
The glitzy office that Ivan Boesky vacated for a prison cell had previously contained commodity operators Marc Rich and `` Pinky '' Green , today fugitives from a potential century apiece of jail sentences . 
It has always been true that those outside the club want to climb in , and that a few will cut corners in the process . 
Some pretty seamy stuff built the turn-of-the-century families ' Fifth Avenue and Newport palazzi and endowed their daughters ' weddings to foreign noblemen . 
Mr. Boesky was a piker compared to Jay Gould and Jim Fiske , and Commodore Vanderbilt thought nothing of bribing judges and legislators . 
Valhi said the articles did n't accurately reflect Valhi and its affiliates ' intentions toward Lockheed . 
Some tariffs were eliminated when the trade pact took effect Jan. 1 . 
The remainder were to be phased out in five or 10 annual installments , with all tariffs eliminated by January 1998 . 
Participants in the U.S. missions to Canada are to be assisted by members of the Service Corps of Retired Executives , a volunteer group , in dealing with their export challenges . 
The U.S. has six trade promotion offices in Canada . 
Loral said the contract with Turkey will provide opportunities for Loral to supply that country with other defense systems . 
The expiration date had been Nov. 3 . 
Apogee was quoted in the over-the-counter market yesterday at $ 2 bid . 
Altogether , employment is expected to decline to less than 16,000 from the current level of about 18,000 . 
In a prepared statement , the company said it expects to realize those gains before year end . 
Some $ 170 million of the $ 233 million increase in nonperforming loans was related to real estate , and roughly three-quarters of that was in the troubled New England market , according to Richard Driscoll , vice chairman . 
Mr. Connolly noted that net third-quarter charge-offs , at $ 63 million , improved slightly from the $ 67 million in the second quarter . 
Total assets slipped to $ 31.4 billion , from $ 32 billion as of June 30 . 
The Chicago office figured prominently in the bank 's problems earlier this year , when $ 65 million in loans to Chicago businessman William Stoecker went sour . 
The latest month 's figures show that imports of steel from European Community nations fell to 466,000 tons from 481,000 a month earlier , while imports from Japan rose to 323,000 tons from 288,000 in July . 
Imports from Canada rose to 272,000 tons in August from 209,000 in July . 
The institute said that , excluding semifinished steel products , year-to-date imports represented 15.2 % of consumption , compared with a permitted maximum of 18.5 % . 
Consider the difficulties faced by Audi salespeople when the car was tainted by false charges of sudden acceleration , or Exxon dealers ' problems in the wake of the Valdez oil spill . 
`` It 's very important that we exude confidence , even though within the family we know there 's a lot of hard work ahead , '' said Richard Miller , the Lowell , Mass. , computer concern 's new president , in a video message to salespeople a month after he took over . 
Responding to such questions is `` defensive , '' says Kenneth Olissa , Wang 's vice president , marketing . 
Mr. Miller vetoed that : `` Even I ca n't understand all the footnotes , '' he says . 
: `` Even I ca n't understand all the footnotes , '' he says . 
: `` We tell them $ 3 billion companies do n't go out of business . 
We tell them all the major companies are having financial difficulties . '' 
Numerous computer companies are having sales slumps and earnings declines , but very few have had losses comparable to Wang 's or are carrying such a large debt load . 
Although Wang will report a loss for the first quarter ended Sept. 30 and the full fiscal year , Mr. Miller says he expects the company will return to profitability by the fourth quarter . 
`` If a salesman jeopardizes his credibility in this time of trouble , it will be a problem for the long run , '' says George Palmatier , a Minden , Nev. , sales consultant and author of `` The Marketing Edge . '' 
Ignore the present condition . 
Show it 's business as usual . '' 
Wang 's customers are data processing managers who want to be sure that their suppliers are stable , wellrun companies that will be around to fix bugs and upgrade computers for years to come . 
`` They were on the road to recovery in terms of customer attitudes until this bad quarter happened . '' 
Wang 's installed base is one of its greatest assets , and many of those customers remain extremely loyal . 
Rick Lynch , a former top salesman in Wang 's Boston office , referring to Wang 's mainstay computer line , says : `` You ca n't sell a VS to a new customer . '' 
Consultants say that Wang 's technology is among the best available in the image market . 
William Tait , a former sales manager in Indianapolis , says that his office had all but sold a $ 1.5 million image system to pharmaceutical maker Eli Lilly & Co . 
`` When they were making the decision , all hell broke loose with the finances . '' 
He says the Lilly executives told him they could n't take the risk with Wang . 
Buyers have to rely on a supplier `` continually upgrading and replacing the product , '' he says . 
`` When a company realizes that , it 's hard to go with Wang . '' 
Brian Petre , a former Wang salesman in upstate New York , says : `` You have pride in your job . 
It 's a tough thing when you ca n't . 
The reason does n't relate to your selling skills . '' 
`` The problem is , if people get down in the dumps , they stop selling , '' says Mike Durcan , a laid-off sales manager in Wang 's Austin office . 
The good news is , it 's not your fault . '' 
`` Our customers watch us for the hidden message , '' he said . 
`` Look a customer right in the eye and say , ` I 'm glad to be at Wang . 
`` Everytime we talked about Blinder International , -LCB- people -RCB- thought it was the brokerage house . '' 
Mr. Blinder said the change was n't related to the brokerage 's recent troubles , which have included sharp declines in earnings , run-ins with the securities regulators and lawsuits by former customers . 
Sales rose 7.4 % to $ 580 million from $ 540 million . 
Profit in Olin 's defense and ammunition segment rose to $ 8 million from $ 7 million . 
The metals segment , hurt by a strike , had break-even results , against $ 3 million a year ago . 
Sales rose 13 % to $ 1.91 billion from $ 1.69 billion . 
Southwestern Bell Corp. and Cincinnati Bell posted slight declines . 
Earlier rate reductions in Texas and California reduced the quarter 's revenue and operating profit $ 55 million ; a year earlier , operating profit in telephone operations was reduced by a similar amount as a result of a provision for a reorganization . 
; a year earlier , operating profit in telephone operations was reduced by a similar amount as a result of a provision for a reorganization . 
Electrical products ' sales fell to $ 496.7 million from $ 504.5 million with higher world-wide lighting volume offset by lower domestic prices and the impact of weaker currencies in Europe and South America . 
Operating profit of $ 37.2 million was unchanged . 
Revenue rose 23 % to $ 1.67 billion from $ 1.36 billion . 
Daniel Akerson , MCI chief financial officer , said the company sees further improvements in operating margins . 
`` We think we can take it to the 18 % range over next 18 to 24 months , '' he said . 
Charles Schellke , an analyst with Smith Barney , Harris Upham & Co. , said some investors apparently expected slightly better revenue growth . 
It has been trying to improve its share of the residential market . 
The company wants its business mix to more closely match that of AT&T -- a step it says will help prevent cross subsidization . 
The current quarter , he said , `` looks fine . 
We think revenue will continue to grow and that we can control costs and thus improve profitability . '' 
The company noted that the year-ago period was particularly strong , with an increase of nearly 70 % . 
In composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange , Cincinnati Bell fell 25 cents to $ 29 . 
Mr. Carlucci , 59 years old , served as defense secretary in the Reagan administration . 
Those duties had been held by Van Pell , 44 , who resigned as an executive vice president . 
For the nine months , it had a loss of $ 58.3 million , or $ 2.44 a share , after earnings of $ 29.5 million , or $ 1.20 a share , in the 1988 period . 
Before the loan-loss addition , it said , it had operating profit of $ 10 million for the quarter . 
Look at what happened to UAL 's chairman , Stephen M. Wolf , and its chief financial officer , John C. Pope . 
Even if the banks resurrect a financing package at $ 250 a share , the two executives would still get about $ 25 million less than they stood to gain in the initial transaction . 
In the $ 300-a-share buyout , that totaled about $ 76.7 million . 
By yesterday 's close of trading , it was good for a paltry $ 43.5 million . 
He left his last two jobs at Republic Airlines and Flying Tiger with combined stock-option gains of about $ 22 million , and UAL gave him a $ 15 million bonus when it hired him . 
His 1988 salary was $ 575,000 , with a $ 575,000 bonus . 
United paid him a $ 375,000 bonus to lure him away from American Airlines , and he was paid a salary of $ 342,122 last year with a $ 280,000 bonus . 
Conceivably , in a scaled-back buy-out , they could be bumped back to coach seats for life . 
; Warner-Lambert Co. 's profit rose 22 % and Eli Lilly & Co. 's net income rose 24 % . 
The results were in line with analysts ' expectations . 
A stronger U.S. dollar reduced third-quarter and first-nine-month sales growth 2 % and 3 % , respectively . 
International sales accounted for 47 % of total company sales for the nine months , compared with 50 % a year earlier . 
The drug was introduced in West Germany this year . 
Spurred by growth in world-wide sales of the company 's prescription drugs , Warner-Lambert said 1989 will be the best year in its history , with per-share earnings expected to increase more than 20 % to about $ 6.10 . 
Sales for the quarter rose to $ 1.11 billion from $ 1.03 billion . 
; U.S. sales rose 15 % . 
The segment 's growth was led by sales of the cardiovascular drugs Lopid , a lipid regulator , and Dilzem , a calcium channel blocker . 
; U.S. sales rose 5 % . 
World-wide sales of Trident gum , Certs breath mints , and Clorets gum and breath mints , increased 12 % to $ 277 million . 
Nine-month sales grew 12 % to $ 3.39 billion from $ 3.03 billion a year earlier . 
Higher sales of pesticides and other plant-science products more than offset a slight decline in the sales of animal-health products to fuel the increase in world-wide agricultural product sales , Lilly said . 
That compares with per-share earnings from continuing operations of 69 cents the year earlier ; including discontinued operations , per-share was 88 cents a year ago . 
; including discontinued operations , per-share was 88 cents a year ago . 
Analysts estimate Colgate 's world-wide third-quarter sales rose about 8 % to $ 1.29 billion . 
He said the improvement was a result of cost savings achieved by consolidating manufacturing operations , blending two sales organizations and focusing more carefully the company 's promotional activities . 
Colgate 's household products business , which includes such brands as Fab laundry detergent and Ajax cleanser , has been a weak performer . 
`` We 've done a lot to improve -LCB- U.S. . -RCB- results , and a lot more will be done , '' Mr. Mark said . 
`` Improving profitability of U.S. operations is an extremely high priority in the company . '' 
By late last night , Globe Managing Editor Thomas Mulvoy , bending to the will of his troops , scrapped the new drawings . 
Globe columnist Mike Barnicle -- in the second attack on his employer in as many weeks -- averred that his shadowy countenance was so bad , it looked `` like a face you 'd find on a bottle of miracle elixir that promises to do away with diarrhea in our lifetime . '' 
Mr. Barnicle reminded readers that he still has n't forgiven Globe management for questioning a $ 20 expense chit he submitted for parking his car while chasing a story . 
Mr. Barnicle was hardly kinder to the renderings of colleagues Michael Madden -LRB- `` appears to be a pervert '' -RRB- , Will McDonough -LRB- `` looks as if he drove for Abe Lincoln '' -RRB- or Bella English , whose `` little girl now screams hysterically every time she sees a newspaper . '' 
`` Instead of buying masks for your kids , just cut out the columnists ' pictures ... . 
Is such a view justified ? 
Enormous ice sheets retreated from the face of North America , northern Europe and Asia . 
It is probably continuing and may well account for most of , or all of , present-day global warming . 
`` On the comptroller side , you 're developing and making work financial controls governing a $ 6 billion budget . 
Leaping into rages , sinking into bouts of drunkenness and mistrust , Mr. Noriega has put to death some 70 of his troops involved in the coup , according to U.S. officials monitoring crematoriums and funeral parlors in Panama City . 
His meals are most often prepared by women he trusts -- his full-time mistress , Vicky Amado , and her mother , Norma . 
More enemies to be dealt with . 
America 's war on the dictator over the past two years , following his indictment on drug charges in February 1988 , is the legacy of that relationship . 
Before American foreign policy set out to destroy Noriega , it helped create him out of the crucible of Panama 's long history of conspirators and pirates . 
The woman had nearly died . 
Mr. Noriega 's tips on emerging leftists at his school were deemed more important to U.S. interests . 
From that point on , the U.S. would make a practice of overlooking the Panamanian 's misadventures . 
The 55-year-old Mr. Noriega is n't as smooth as the shah of Iran , as well-born as Nicaragua 's Anastasio Somoza , as imperial as Ferdinand Marcos of the Philippines or as bloody as Haiti 's Baby Doc Duvalier . Yet he has proved more resilient than any of them . 
`` He has mastered the art of survival . '' 
Mr. Noriega might have fallen of his own weight in 1988 because of Panama 's dire economic situation , says Mr. Moss , but increasing external pressure has only given him additional excuses for repression , and a scapegoat for his own mismanagement . 
One Colombian drug boss , upon hearing in 1987 that Gen. Noriega was negotiating with the U.S. to abandon his command for a comfortable exile , sent him a hand-sized mahogany coffin engraved with his name . 
`` The Americans have left him without a way out . 
Mr. Noriega often tells friends that patience is the best weapon against the gringos , who have a short attention span and little stomach for lasting confrontation . 
The contact occurred through Mr. Noriega 's half-brother , a Panamanian diplomat based in Peru named Luis Carlos Noriega Hurtado . Luis Carlos , knowing that helping the Americans could advance the career of any Panamanian officer , relayed Tony 's reports on the leftist tendencies he observed among his fellow students and , more important , among his officers and instructors . 
Luis Carlos , knowing that helping the Americans could advance the career of any Panamanian officer , relayed Tony 's reports on the leftist tendencies he observed among his fellow students and , more important , among his officers and instructors . 
A spy was born . 
Born the illegitimate son of his father 's maid , he was raised on the mean streets of the central market district of Panama City . 
`` He had an elegant uniform with gold buttons in a country where there was a cult of militarism , where officers were the elite with special privileges , '' recalls Darien Ayala , a fellow student in Peru and a lifelong friend . 
His commanding officer at the Chiriqui Province garrison , Major Omar Torrijos , gave him an intriguing assignment : Mr. Noriega would organize the province 's first intelligence service . 
: Mr. Noriega would organize the province 's first intelligence service . 
Satisfying its interests was a priority for any Panamanian leader . 
It was modest pay by American standards , but a healthy boost to his small military salary , which fellow officers remember as having been $ 300 to $ 400 monthly . 
`` He started building the files that helped him gain power . '' 
By pressuring taxi and bus drivers who needed licenses , he gained a ready cache of information . 
He knew which local luminaries had been caught driving drunk , which had been found with their mistresses . 
The campaign so divided union leaders that the government found them far easier to control . 
Noriega was an expert at bribing and blackmailing people . '' 
Rodrigo Miranda , a local lawyer and human-rights monitor , recalls an intoxicated Noriega visiting prisoners in their cells at the 5th Zone Garrison headquarters in David , where he had his offices . Mr. Noriega would order them all to take off their clothes and run around the courtyard naked , laughing at them and then retreating to his office . 
Mr. Noriega would order them all to take off their clothes and run around the courtyard naked , laughing at them and then retreating to his office . 
`` People started wondering if something was wrong with him , '' Mr. Miranda recalls . 
He signed up for intelligence and counter-intelligence training under American officers at Fort Gulick in Panama in July 1967 , according to a copy of a 1983 resume with details Mr. Noriega has since classified as secret . 
He flew to Fort Bragg , N.C. , in September of that year for a course in psychological operations , returning to the School of the Americas in Panama for a two-month course called `` military intelligence for officers . '' 
He rose to chief of intelligence in Panama 's socalled G-2 in 1970 after providing populist dictator Torrijos the critical support to defeat a coup attempt against him a year earlier . 
He became Gen. Torrijos 's inseparable shadow , and the holder of all Panama 's secrets . 
Mr. Noriega , by now a lieutenant colonel , expanded his contacts to include the Cubans -- not to mention the Israelis , the Taiwanese and any other intelligence service that came knocking . 
When U.S. diplomats complained to the CIA of Col. Noriega 's moonlighting , intelligence experts always insisted that his allegiance was first to the Americans . 
`` Some of us wondered how our intelligence people could put so much stock in his information when he was just as close to the Cubans . '' 
During the Nixon administration , the Drug Enforcement Administration became dismayed at the extent of the G-2 's connections to arrested drug traffickers . 
One DEA agent drew up a list of five options for dealing with Col. Noriega , one of which was assassination . 
`` Everybody was afraid of him , '' Mr. Ingersoll says . 
The tapes included wiretaps of Gen. Torrijos 's own phone , according to American intelligence officials . 
`` In the world of intelligence , if you want to get information , you get it from seedy characters . 
The question is how much you get tied in with seedy characters so they can extort you . '' 
Mr. Turner was troubled enough to cancel the U.S. contract with the rent-a-colonel at the beginning of the Carter administration . 
Prosecutors in Southern Florida indicted five Panamanians on charges of illegally running arms to Sandinista rebels trying to overthrow the Nicaraguan government of Mr. Somoza . 
Mr. Noriega made plans to fly to Washington for a meeting with his counterpart at the Pentagon . 
Dade County and federal authorities , learning that he intended to fly through Miami , made plans to arrest him on the gun-running charges as soon as he hit U.S. soil . 
According to military officers at the time , word was passed to Mr. Noriega by his American hosts that the police would be waiting . 
On Monday , U.S. officials received a routine , unclassified message from the military group commander in Panama . 
Their original indictment against Mr. Wittgreen , the friend of Mr. Noriega , and the other four was dismissed on a technicality . 
Mr. Sanford was told Mr. Noriega 's friend , Mr. Wittgreen , would be handling the shah 's security . 
It would n't be a good idea to indict him -- much less Mr. Noriega , the prosecutor was told . 
`` Unfortunately , '' Mr. Eskenazi wrote in a letter , `` those of us in law enforcement in Miami find ourselves frequently attempting to enforce the laws of the United States but simultaneously being caught between foreign policy considerations over which we have no control . '' 
`` If he had been found guilty , we could have stopped him . '' 
Soon , the military became a veritable mafia controlling legal and illegal businesses . 
The Reagan administration also put Mr. Noriega 's G-2 back on the U.S. payroll . 
During the Reagan years he expanded his business and intelligence contacts with the Cubans and the Sandinistas . 
He allegedly entered into Panama 's first formal business arrangement with Colombian drug bosses , according to Floyd Carlton , a pilot who once worked for Mr. Noriega and who testified before the U.S. grand jury in Miami that would ultimately indict the Panamanian on drug charges . 
Mr. Blandon says the general allowed the Contras to set up a secret training center in Panama . 
Although , his help for the Contra cause was limited , it was enough to win him important protectors in the Reagan administration , says Sen. Patrick Leahy , a Vermont Democrat who then served on the Senate Intelligence Committee . 
`` Noriega played U.S. intelligence agencies and the U.S. government like a violin , '' he says . 
Curtin Windsor , then the ambassador to Costa Rica , recalls being invited to Panama by Mr. Noriega 's brother Luis Carlos for a weekend of deep sea fishing and `` quiet , serious conversation '' on the Aswara Peninsula . 
Mr. Windsor notified Everett E. Briggs , the U.S. ambassador to Panama , of the invitation . 
He says Mr. Briggs told him he was being set up for a `` honey trap , '' in which Mr. Noriega would try to involve him in an orgy and then record the event `` with sound and video . '' 
Mr. Noriega was accused of ordering in 1985 the beheading of Hugo Spadafora , his most outspoken political opponent and the first man to publicly finger Mr. Noriega on drug trafficking charges . 
Mr. Noriega was growing desperate . 
As recounted in a stipulation that summarized government documents released for the North trial , Mr. Noriega offered to assassinate the Sandinista leadership in exchange `` for a promise to help clean up Noriega 's image and a commitment to lift the -LCB- U.S. . -RCB- ban on military sales to the Panamanian Defense Forces . '' 
The representative responded that Noriega had numerous assets in place in Nicaragua and could accomplish many essential things , just as Noriega had helped -LCB- the U.S. . -RCB- the previous year in blowing up a Sandinista arsenal . '' 
Mr. Noriega 's proposal was turned down . 
Within weeks the unfolding Iran-Contra scandal took away Mr. Noriega 's insurance policy . 
The death of CIA Director William Casey and resignation of Oliver North allowed anti-Noriega political forces to gain influence . 
Public protests against him were triggered in June 1987 due to charges by Diaz Herrera , his former chief of staff , that Mr. Noriega had stolen the 1984 election and had ordered the killing of Messrs. Spadafora and Torrijos . 
Few American officials were willing any longer to defend him . 
Mr. Noriega believes he has n't any alternative but to continue clutching to power . President Bush has sworn to bring him to justice . 
Mr. Noriega believes he has n't any alternative but to continue clutching to power . 
It is a knock-out battle -- perhaps to the death . 
That allowed him to get stronger and stronger , '' he says . 
`` I do n't think we created him as much as we fed him , nurtured him and let him grow up to be big and strong . 
`` They need to do something about this , '' said Maury Harris , economist at PaineWebber Group Inc . 
Factory output dropped 0.2 % , its first decline since February , after having been unchanged in October . 
Factories operated at 83.7 % of capacity , the lowest rate in more than a year and down from 84.1 % in September . 
Production of factory equipment , one indication of the strength of manufacturers ' investment spending , fell 0.3 % . 
`` Whenever corporate profits are weak that means capital spending is going to soften subsequently , '' Mr. Harris said . 
Analysts do n't expect the September surge in auto production to be repeated in the coming months . 
William R. Attridge resigned those posts , as well as a seat on NESB 's board . 
`` What this is saying is that the surgeon general 's message is having an impact , '' said Melvyn Tockman , an epidemiologist at the Johns Hopkins School of Hygiene and Public Health in Baltimore . 
The death rate from lung cancer of white males aged 35 to 44 in the mid-1970s was 13.4 per 100,000 , but the mortality rate of the same age group in the mid-1980s was 9.6 , a decline of 28.7 % . 
Measured the same way , the decline for black males was 14.2 % . 
The drop in mortality rates for women was less steep -- 8.9 % for blacks and 5.3 % for whites . 
`` Smoking prevention programs should reach larger segments of the population , especially children , adolescents and minorities . '' 
`` Non-smoking should be established as the norm of social behavior '' around the world , the editorial says , through the enactment of laws that limit advertising , boost tobacco prices and promote anti-smoking education . 
A higher proportion of black men smoke than white men . 
While nearly equal percentages of black and white women currently smoke , in both sexes more whites have given up smoking than blacks . 
; Hispanics were included with whites . 
The forces at work included computer-guided trading , as well as profit-driven market makers and institutional investors who had bought stock on the cheap during the recent correction . 
The Nasdaq Composite closed down 1.05 , or 0.2 % , to 459.93 . 
The barometer of the biggest nonfinancial stocks settled at 448.49 , off 1.40 . 
`` The market must have turned up and down 15 different times , '' commented Lance Zipper , head of OTC trading at Kidder Peabody . 
`` Every time you thought it was going into a rally it gave up , and every time you thought it would rally it came down . 
This is a tough market . '' 
Most of trading action now is from professional traders who are trying to take advantage of the price swings to turn a quick profit , he and other traders said . 
`` A lot of the professional traders are just going back and forth . 
They 're just as confused . '' 
He believes that the volatile conditions created by program trading has `` thoroughly confused '' investors about where the market is headed . 
Program trading is `` benefiting a few to the detriment of many and I wish someone would do something about it , '' he complained . 
Share turnover subsided to 161.5 million . 
Advancing and declining issues finished about even . 
Of the 4,345 stocks that changed hands , 1,174 declined and 1,040 advanced . 
The stock , which finished Monday at 29 1\/2 , traded as high as 29 3\/4 and as low as 28 3\/4 before closing at 29 1\/4 , down 1\/4 . 
The stock tumbled 2 3\/4 on news that it might have to take a charge against earnings if it ca n't successfully resolve a dispute with its European licensee , Boehringer Mannheim , over its anti-anemia drug , EPO . 
The stock recovered somewhat to finish 1 1\/4 lower at 26 1\/4 . 
The wholesaler of cash and carry merchandise reported fiscal fourthquarter earnings that were better than analysts had expected . 
The news could n't have been better , '' said Linda Kristiansen , a Dean Witter Reynolds analyst , in an interview . 
Its shares added 3\/4 to 30 3\/4 . 
MCI Communications tumbled 2 5\/8 to 42 3\/8 on 4.7 million shares even though the telecommunications giant reported a 63 % increase in third-quarter profit . 
The company , which leases technology equipment , reported substantially lower net income for its fiscal first quarter , which ended Aug. 31 . 
Medicine in the 19th century was dedicated mostly to combating sepsis and diagnostic analysis . 
Writing in the 1960s Ms. Carson suggested that the human race could be eliminated in 20 years , and Mr. Wald suggested that life on earth might end by 1985 . 
Mr. Ehrlich predicted unprecedented famine by 1980 . 
There were many more . 
Thousands of chemical products were categorized as carcinogenic , with recommendations that they be banned from industrial use because they produced malignant tumors in overdosed rats . 
Unknown before 1960 were the inconclusive effects of acid rain , greenhouse warming and ozone depletion , all of which required burgeoning political power and gargantuan expense . 
Local pollution problems require cheap energy and capital for their solution . But the New Environmentalists oppose private wealth creation -LRB- which , they claim , depletes natural resources -RRB- and nuclear power -LRB- even though it would counteract the greenhouse effect -RRB- . 
They are in the forefront of opposing the search for new landfills and methods of incineration and even oppose new methods of research such as genetic engineering . 
Let 's rationalize our priorities by solving pollution problems at the local level as heretofore . 
Each speaker was asked to address a specific topic , not deliver a point of view . 
Each scientist independently concluded society and government are underreacting when it comes to substantive policy change . 
This leads to a very special sense of urgency . 
If the media decide to work harder at educating the public about these complex and technical issues , that hardly can be termed non-objective journalism . 
We have literally altered the chemistry and physics of our planet 's atmosphere . 
This portends consequences from what we have already done that will be very destabilizing to social and economic systems . 
The problems of the environment are so interrelated , so inextricably entwined with our current way of life and so large that it is unlikely we will be able to address them effectively unless major changes are made in less than 10 years . 
No , we are not overreacting . 
A company spokesman said yesterday that Coca-Cola Enterprises sticks by its 1989 forecast . 
The volume is well below the industry 's 4 % to 5 % growth rate of recent years , but in line with other soft-drink companies for the third quarter . 
Consumers have been accustomed to buying soft-drinks at discounted prices for several years . 
Coca-Cola Enterprises said it had to boost spending for trade and dealer incentives to try to keep volumes from slipping . 
The company said it expects consumers will adjust to higher-priced soft drinks . 
`` They 're out there promoting like crazy , trying to get prices up by promotion , '' said Roy Burry , an analyst with Kidder , Peabody & Co . 
Revenue was flat at about $ 2.97 billion . 
Sales rose 25 % to $ 3.90 billion from $ 3.13 billion . 
PepsiCo closed at $ 58.50 a share , up $ 1.375 . 
It is providing $ 50 million in emergency financing to the company and has agreed to buy as much as $ 75 million in receivables from B. Altman & Co. and Bonwit Teller , L.J. Hooker 's two fully owned department-store chains . 
At the time , the Merksamer chain had 11 stores in operation . 
Today , there are 77 units , all located in shopping malls . 
This year , a number of retail leveraged buyouts have failed , causing jitters among suppliers , and Mr. Merksamer apparently wanted assurances that he wo n't have delivery problems . 
First Boston Corp. is advising L.J. Hooker on the sale of the Merksamer business . 
In 1979 , the pair split the company in half , with Walter and his son , Sam , agreeing to operate under the Merksamer Jewelery name . 
Mr. Regal had been president and chief executive of RBS Industries Inc . 
The one-hour program will be repeated with updates throughout Saturday mornings . 
They only accounted for 5 % , at best , of the station 's total revenues . '' 
Spokesmen for the television networks of CBS Inc. and Capital Cities\/ABC Inc. , say there are no plans to alter the children 's line-up on Saturday mornings . 
There has been a surge in syndicated children 's shows to independent stations , as well as competition from videocassettes for kids and from cable outlets such as Nickelodeon and the Disney Channel . 
; Turner Broadcasting System Inc. 's Cable News Network has its highest ratings , outside of prime time , on Saturday mornings . 
NBC Productions or NBC News could supply the network with other Saturday morning shows , a move that would control costs . 
Animated shows , which are made by outside production companies , cost the network about $ 300,000 per episode . 
Sales rose 5.2 % to $ 2.04 billion from $ 1.94 billion the previous year . 
Mr. Wertheimer , 38 years old , had been a first vice president in the industrial group in investment banking . 
In this article , I was alleged to have said , `` Any patient with high-risk colon cancer is really getting short shrift if he 's not getting this therapy . '' I did n't say this , and I 'm totally opposed to the philosophy expressed by the quote . 
I have not offered and will not offer routine therapy with the two drugs , levamisole and 5-fluorouracil , to any of my colon-cancer patients . 
I believe any physician who truly cares about cancer patients , both today and tomorrow , should offer the hope of something better than that . 
It will compare 21 different blends of gasolines with three mixtures of up to 85 % methanol . 
Mr. Keating , for his part , has filed suit alleging that regulators unlawfully seized the thrift . 
`` We have no plans at this time to pay off those notes , '' he said . 
She said they have `` oversimplified and made some erroneous assumptions that make their analysis completely off-base . '' 
He insisted , as he has before , that creditors would be paid in full under the plan . 
It could n't sell its South American routes , one of the major assets marked for disposal . 
A last-minute snag in negotiations with AMR , over an unrelated lawsuit between American and another Texas Air unit , caused the deal to collapse . 
Those changes in its condition meant the reorganization plan previously presented to creditors would have to be revamped . 
The committee has two groups of experts it calls on to analyze Eastern 's plans . Both said the new plan would n't work . 
Other costs also would increase , including maintenance , because Eastern has an older fleet . 
Flanked by flight attendants , pilots and gate agents dressed in spiffy new blue uniforms , they said Eastern has exceeded its operational goals and is filling its seats . Starting next month , Eastern will begin flying 775 flights daily instead of the previously announced 700 , they said . Mr. Bakes declined to give out Eastern 's daily losses , but said he did n't expect Eastern would have to dip into the cash from asset sales currently held in escrow . These accounts hold several hundred million dollars , primarily from asset sales . The plan Eastern hopes to pursue , he said , calls for Eastern to have $ 390 million in cash by year 's end . Both he and Mr. Lorenzo predicted that plan might be confirmed in January . 
Starting next month , Eastern will begin flying 775 flights daily instead of the previously announced 700 , they said . 
It must be accepted by the court . '' 
That deadline has been extended once and could be extended again . 
; they have been trying to head it off this year . 
Ways and Means Chairman Rostenkowski backed a simplification plan in the pending House tax bill , but the plan turns out to be a big revenue loser . 
Proponents of simplification fear that the chances of getting it into the final bill are waning . 
`` We hear it has low priority on the House side , '' says Samuel Starr of Coopers & Lybrand , CPAs . 
If the law is n't changed , he says , `` we are left staring at rules that are almost impossible to implement , because there are so many complex depreciation calculations to do . '' 
It lets victims elect to deduct casualty losses on either 1989 or amended 1988 returns , whichever offers the larger tax benefit ; they have until April 16 to choose . 
In filing an original -LRB- not amended -RRB- return , a couple should consider whether damaged property is owned jointly or separately and whether one spouse has larger income ; that may determine whether they should file jointly or separately . 
Interest will be imposed on unpaid taxes , but late-payment penalties on the returns will be waived if the balance due and paid is 10 % or less of the liability . 
Excise-tax returns due by Oct. 31 or Nov. 30 may be delayed to Jan. 16 . 
Extensions ca n't be granted for filing employment-tax returns due Oct. 31 or for depositing withheld taxes , but late penalties will be abated for deposits made by Nov. 15 . 
Estimating that the state may lose $ 15 million a year , officials announced the filing of 15 criminal actions and `` hundreds '' of civil penalties . 
; he saved $ 47,000 in 1974-81 by living with family members and pinching pennies and $ 45,000 of secret gifts from his remorseful father , who had abandoned the family in 1955 . 
The court rejected his incredible claims , denied his deductions , and imposed a negligence penalty ... . 
After a tortuous climb , she is rewarded by a picture-postcard vista : a glade of golden aspens under an azure Indian-summer sky . 
This summer , speeding bikers were blamed for an accident in the Napa County park , in which a horse -- spooked on a trail that was closed to bikers -- broke its leg . 
The animal had to be destroyed ; the bikers fled and were never found . 
; the bikers fled and were never found . 
They have even sent helicopters in pursuit of bikers after hikers and equestrians complained they were being driven from trails . 
Two years ago , the district decided to limit the bikes to fire roads in its 65,000 hilly acres . 
At least half that growth will have come in the past three years alone . 
An adept bicyclist can leap from a dead stop to the top of a picnic table without losing balance . 
The state of California , following the lead of some regional parks , recently adopted regulations that closed nearly all hiking paths in state parks to mountain bicycles . 
The move largely consigns them to roads used by motorized vehicles . 
The bikes are unwelcome on trails in national parks . 
Even the U.S. Forest Service , whose lenient `` multiple-use '' philosophy permits motorized vehicles on thousands of miles of its trails across the U.S. , has begun to close some lands to the bikes , including major portions of the popular Pacific Crest Trail , which stretches from California to Canada . 
Sierra has been instrumental in securing a number of the California bans . 
It has been waging an all-out campaign to beat back a proposal , pushed by Utah bike groups , to allow the cycles in federally designated wilderness areas , where they are now prohibited . 
Pressure from these members prompted the club recently to soften its anti-bike rhetoric ; it no longer , for example , lumps the bikes into the same category as motorcycles and other terrain-marring off-road vehicles . 
`` I have a mountain bike , yet as a hiker I 've been run off the road by kids careening down a fire trail on them , '' says Gene Coan , an official at Sierra 's headquarters in San Francisco , echoing the concerns of many members . 
; many are appalled that the conservation community would suddenly consider them the enemy . 
Mr. Langton 's group , Concerned Off-Road Bicyclists Association , mounted petition drives to help keep open certain Santa Monica Mountain trails designated for closing . 
Biking groups in Montana , Idaho , Michigan and Massachusetts have won similar concessions , says Tim Blumenthal , mountain bike editor of Bicycling magazine . 
; in the San Francisco-area park district where a ranger was clobbered by a cyclist this summer bikers have formed a volunteer patrol to help rangers enforce regulations , and to school riders in proper trail etiquette . 
While some are renegade riders who simply scorn regulations , much bad riding simply reflects ignorance that can be corrected through `` education and peer pressure , '' says Jim Hasenauer , a director of the International Mountain Biking Association . 
They wanted a machine that would allow them to pedal into rugged terrain then inaccessible to cycles . 
They got a machine more responsive , more stable and in many ways easier to ride than the thin-tired racing bikes that then were the rage . 
Last year , 25 % of the 10 million bicycles sold in the U.S. were mountain bikes . 
In California , a bellwether market , they accounted for more than 80 % of all bike sales . 
City dwellers love them because they shift smoothly in traffic , bounce easily over curbs and roll through road glass with far fewer flat tires than racing bikes . 
By one estimate , everyone here under 50 owns at least one bike . 
The town is home to the Mountain Bike Hall of Fame and it hosts the annual Fat Tire Bike Week . 
This summer , the jamboree attracted more visitors than the busiest week of the town 's winter ski season . 
`` The mountain bike feels as comfortable as the ` paperboy ' bike you had as a kid , but it can do so much more , '' he says . 
That cut short the rally in Treasury bonds and depressed prices moderately below late Monday 's levels . 
Long-term Treasury issues declined about half a point , or $ 5 for each $ 1,000 face amount . 
`` People are breathing a major sigh of relief that the world did n't end Monday morning '' or yesterday . 
In an apparent attempt to keep a lid on short-term interest rates , the Fed once again pumped money into the banking system . 
The Fed has allowed a key short-term interest rate to decline about one-quarter percentage point . 
The federal funds rate on overnight loans between banks has been hovering around 8 3\/4 % , down from 9 % previously . 
Nikko 's Mr. Conlon fears a huge wave of Treasury borrowing early next month will drive down Treasury bond prices . 
That , coupled with poor third-quarter corporate-earnings comparisons , `` will make trouble for the equity market for the next two to three months , '' he says . 
`` They shot the whole orchestra just because the piano player hit a bad note , '' said Laszlo Birinyi , president of Birinyi Associates Inc. , referring to the stock market 's plunge Friday on news of trouble in financing the UAL Corp . buy-out . 
Late yesterday in New York , the dollar rose to 142.75 yen from 141.80 yen Monday , but fell to 1.8667 marks from 1.8685 marks . 
Sales rose 9 % to $ 7.54 billion from $ 6.95 billion . 
Some competing forest-products firms have recently reported improved results due to strong pulp and paper business . 
Pulp and paper performance depends on cost and price variables , the company said . 
Get the problem behind you and do n't look back , '' said James J. McDermott , analyst at Keefe , Bruyette & Woods , in approving of the move . 
Bankers Trust `` has had the capacity to do this for some time , '' the analyst said . 
He expects Citicorp to take a similar step this year . 
Wells Fargo & Co. of San Francisco posted a 17 % jump . PNC Financial Corp. , the parent of Pittsburgh National Bank , reported net income climbed 9.8 % , while net for Banc One Corp. of Columbus , Ohio , grew 3.8 % . 
PNC Financial Corp. , the parent of Pittsburgh National Bank , reported net income climbed 9.8 % , while net for Banc One Corp. of Columbus , Ohio , grew 3.8 % . 
`` There 's nothing in here that 's horrible and nothing to make you think they 're setting the world on fire , '' said Carole Berger , analyst for C.J. Lawrence , Morgan Grenfell Inc . 
`` The consumer business continues to drive the earnings stream , '' said Mr. McDermott of Keefe , Bruyette & Woods . 
A `` concerning '' item the analyst cited was the 10 % jump in expenses , which the bank attributes to costs of expanding both its consumer credit-card operations and its overseas branch business . 
Its margin fell only seven basis points , or 7\/100ths of a percentage point , from a year ago , compared with a 13-point drop at Security Pacific Corp. and much larger declines among banks in other parts of the country . 
Non-interest income fell slightly to $ 191.9 million from $ 193.3 million , while Wells Fargo continued to rigorously control non-interest expense , which was almost flat at $ 393.4 million . 
That trend , and Wells Fargo 's heavy exposure to leveraged buy-outs , are about the only worries analysts have about Wells Fargo 's financial picture . 
Wells Fargo is rebuilding its loan-loss reserve , which increased to $ 711 million at Sept. 30 from $ 664 million the previous quarter but was down from $ 852 million a year ago , when the bank still had some shaky foreign loans . 
The comparable year-earlier number was $ 56 million , a spokesman said . 
`` We did n't take part in a lot of deals '' in the quarter `` because their credit quality was poor , '' the spokesman said . 
Trust income grew 15 % , to $ 49.9 million , while service charges , fees and commissions increased 22 % , to $ 79.4 million . 
Much depends on the opposition , a loose group of regional and ideological parties led by former Gandhi cabinet minister Vishwanath Pratap Singh . 
The elections will be held in different states on one of the two days . 
His pledge to clean up local administration and Indian politics , including his own party , went unfulfilled . 
His `` Mr. Clean '' image was muddied by an arms-kickback scandal , which will be a major campaign issue . 
Some analysts predict that disappointment in Mr. Gandhi 's spent pledge to reduce corruption and heavy-handed local government will crest at the polls . 
`` There 's a wide feeling of indignation across the country , '' says Bhabani Sen Gupta of the Center for Policy Research , in New Delhi . 
`` I think the people will be judging the regime by a petty policeman , by a corrupt revenue collector . 
This could be a big protest against an administrative failure . '' 
Economic analysts call his trail-blazing liberalization of the Indian economy incomplete , and many are hoping for major new liberalizations if he is returned firmly to power . 
The landslide was fueled by panic that prevailed in India at the time . 
Mrs. Gandhi had been assassinated by separatist Sikhs , and many Indians feared their country might split apart . 
In the previous three general elections , similar national issues clinched the vote . 
In 1971 , the Congress Party won after India 's victory in the Bangladesh war . 
In 1977 , Mrs. Gandhi was thrown out of office after her 19-month emergency rule , and in 1980 , after her successors made a mess of their three years in power , she was restored to office . 
Analysts say the opposition will struggle this week to unite , and its success will be clear only when it announces its final list of parliamentary candidates . 
The opposition charged that the money was used to bribe Indian government officials , an allegation denied by Mr. Gandhi 's administration . 
The scandal has faded and flared , but recent disclosures propelled it back onto the front pages , and that has helped galvanize the opposition , which last week blocked passage of two constitutional amendment bills . 
It was the first time in 20 years that such government bills were defeated . 
That illustrates the kind of disappointment many Indians feel toward Mr. Gandhi , whom they zestfully elected and enthusiastically supported in his first two years in power . 
His term has produced no spectacular failures in politics , in the economy or on the military front , and has chalked up some successes . 
His failures in those two areas deeply , and sometimes bitterly , disappointed many Indians . 
`` The Congress government is taking the farmers ' bread and not giving us any support . 
When there are well problems , light problems , road problems , the government tells us to forget it . '' 
Even if it unites for the elections , its coherence is likely to be temporary . 
When the Congress -LRB- I -RRB- lost the 1977 election , following Mrs. Gandhi 's hated emergency rule , a similar coalition took power and then disintegrated . 
The report says that investigations were severely hampered by lack of cooperation from Bofors . 
Bofors says it ca n't disclose the names of the middlemen because it would jeopardize industrial confidentiality . 
A portion of the report containing names of the middlemen is withheld by officials citing bank secrecy requirements . 
According to Gen. Sundarji , that would have forced Bofors to disclose the names of the middlemen who received kickbacks from the company . 
`` When stocks stabilized , that was a disappointment . '' 
Fed officials injected more cash into the banking system by arranging $ 1.5 billion of repurchase agreements during the usual pre-noon intervention period . 
The move was meant to keep a lid on interest rates and to boost investor confidence . 
She said a more aggressive move was n't needed . 
Some so-called high-quality junk issues , such as R.H. Macy & Co. 's 14 1\/2 % subordinated debentures , rose . 
The Macy 's issue closed up about one point at a bid price of 97 . 
`` Underwriters of the TVA bonds reduced their market risk by selling Treasurys to cover at least part of their -LCB- TVA -RCB- holdings , '' said James R. Capra , a senior vice president at Shearson Lehman Government Securities Inc . 
The Office of Finance of the Federal Home Loan Banks said it priced a four-part $ 2.27 billion bond offering for the banks to yield from 8.125 % to 8.375 % . 
The August gap was expected to have expanded to $ 9.1 billion . 
The latest 10-year notes were quoted late at 99 25\/32 to yield 8.01 % , compared with 100 1\/32 to yield 7.97 % . 
The discount rate on three-month bills rose to 7.52 % for a bond-equivalent yield of 7.75 % . 
The rate on six-month bills rose to 7.53 % for a bond-equivalent yield of 7.92 % . 
TVA offered $ 2 billion of 30-year bonds priced to yield 9.06 % ; $ 1 billion in 10-year notes priced to yield 8.42 % ; and $ 1 billion in five-year notes priced to yield 8.33 % . 
Dealers noted that it 's difficult to structure new Remics when prices are moving widely . 
Freddie Mac 9 % securities were at 97 5\/32 , down 3\/32 . 
The lists total $ 654.5 million . 
The 6 3\/4 % notes due April 1994 were up 0.10 point to 97.85 to yield 7.31 % . 
The Treasury 11 3\/4 % bond due 2003\/2007 rose 23\/32 to 112 10\/32 to yield 10.03 % . 
The benchmark No. 111 4.6 % bond due 1998 ended on brokers ' screens at a price of 96 , off 0.15 point to yield 5.27 % . 
By an 11-2 margin , Senate negotiators voted to preserve the 235 mortgage refinancing plan , and despite powerful allies , the opposition found itself undercut by an unusual alliance of liberals and conservatives . 
`` We are stewards here , not of the mortgage companies , but the taxpayers , '' said the Texas Republican . 
The bulk of the money would be funneled through the National Endowment for Democracy , but the legislation is so vaguely written that it has been dogged by questions regarding the money 's true purpose and its ultimate destination . 
Final approval -- on a 64-35 roll call -- was never in doubt , but the opposition drew an unusual mix of senators , including Republicans Jesse Helms and Warren Rudman and Democrats Bill Bradley and John Glenn . 
Critics warned such cash contributions may only undercut the opposition party 's standing , and one irony is that under Nicaraguan law a major portion of the opposition party 's funds must be shared with the government 's Supreme Electoral Council . 
The station is promised $ 1.8 billion within the $ 5.36 billion provided for research and development in the National Aeronautics and Space Administration , and the nation 's high-speed aerospace plane -- cut by the Senate -- could receive as much as $ 60 million in new funds or transfers . 
While the practice was discouraged in the past , the conference agreement is laced with veterans ' hospitals , environmental projects and urban grants designated for specific communities . 
The most striking example yesterday may have been in community development funds , where the two houses had separately approved a total of 27 projects valued at $ 20 million , and the conference added 15 more valued at $ 8 million to ostensibly preserve `` balance '' between the House and Senate . 
An exemption will remain for flights longer than six hours to Hawaii and Alaska , but estimates by the tobacco industry yesterday indicate all but about 30 flights would be covered . 
The same issue threatens to spill over to the foreign aid debate , and Mr. Bush also is threatening to veto any agreement that preserves Senate-passed provisions renewing U.S. support for the United Nations Fund for Population Activities . 
`` As a result of your ultimatum , '' writes the Wisconsin Democrat , `` I guess there is no longer any point in taking administration views into account on other items in conference , inasmuch regardless of their resolution you apparently intend to veto this bill . 
Gold , which has n't risen or fallen significantly in quite some time , yesterday achieved what may be a new level of impassiveness : The most actively traded futures contracts closed unchanged despite nervous fluctuations in both the dollar and the stock market . 
: The most actively traded futures contracts closed unchanged despite nervous fluctuations in both the dollar and the stock market . 
The December 1989 contract , which has the greatest trading volume , ended at $ 371.20 an ounce . 
The other months posted advances of 10 cents to 20 cents an ounce . 
Gold tried to rally on Monday but ran into the same situation that has subdued gold prices for more than a year : selling by gold producers , who want to fix the highest possible price for their gold . 
`` Producers at the moment regard that area a good one in which to sell gold . '' 
`` Investors in the U.S. and Europe are comfortable with the actions of the -LCB- Federal Reserve -RCB- in its willingness to supply liquidity to financial system , which helped the stock market rebound on Monday , '' he said . 
`` They still bear the memory of October 1987 , when they bought gold after the stock market crashed and ended up losing money because gold prices subsequently fell , '' Mr. Nichols said . 
`` It 's an experience they do n't want to repeat . '' 
There is little incentive to buy gold because if the stock market goes higher , it may be just a false alarm . 
This is keeping the gold traders handcuffed . '' 
`` The dollar has n't reacted much to it , so gold has n't either , '' he said . 
Since stock market indexes plummeted last Friday , participants in all markets have been wary . 
When traders become confident that the stock market has stabilized , oil prices are expected to rise as supply and demand fundamentals once again become the major consideration . 
Crude oil for November delivery edged up by 16 cents a barrel to $ 20.75 a barrel . 
November gasoline slipped slightly . 
The March contract advanced 0.14 cent a pound to 14.11 cents . According to an analyst , Cuba ca n't meet all its shipment commitments and has asked Japan to accept a delay of shipments scheduled for later this year , into early next year . 
`` Japan is perceived as a wealthy nation that can turn elsewhere in the world market and buy the sugar , '' the analyst said . 
It was the possibility of this demand that helped firm prices , the analyst said . 
Another analyst noted that Cuba has been deferring shipments in recent years . 
`` To the professionals in the trade it did n't cause much surprise . 
The March futures contract traded as high as 14.24 cents , but could n't sustain the advance , '' he said . 
Cattle futures prices were also supported yesterday by signs that supermarket chains are making plans to increase their promotions concerning beef . 
Traders are especially sensitive to reports of possible U.S. soybean sales because U.S. exports are lagging . 
Since Sept. 1 , about 13 million fewer bushels of U.S. soybeans have been sold overseas than for the same period last year . 
Ratings under review are Ryder 's A-1 collateral trust debentures , A-2 senior notes and bonds , A-2 preferred stock and the company 's Prime-1 rating for commercial paper . 
Moody 's said it is assessing the strategies Ryder 's management may follow in addressing significant challenges in some major markets . 
The rating agency said it is focusing especially on the transportation service company 's efforts to control costs , improve margins and enhance its competitive position in its primary business , vehicle leasing and rental . 
; their herds are thriving . 
At this week 's U.N. conference in Lausanne , they imposed a global ivory ban that seeks to overturn local policies . 
Legitimate ranchers , who have an interest in preserving the herds , would go out of business . 
Poachers would control the underground trade . 
The Greens from the First World wanted a morality play , not a negotiation . 
Five countries announced they would not honor what one Zimbabwean delegate wryly called the `` made in Switzerland '' solution . 
The director of Zimbabwe 's Wildlife Department described American conservationists as `` fat little puppies from urban environments who do n't know a thing about Africa . '' 
That 's not fair ; they 're not all fat . 
; they 're not all fat . 
After NBC weather man Willard Scott broadcast the hot-line number , it was flooded with 10,000 calls . 
Last week , the U.S. Chamber of Commerce began using its national TV show to seek help , such as equipment , for business owners . 
In lobbying on other health-coverage topics , the National Federation of Independent Business will press for legislation that would give self-employed people a 100 % tax deduction for their own health plans , up from 25 % currently . 
The Section 89 victory could have a downside by making it harder to oppose lawmakers on other health proposals . 
Even though the announcement was true in the end , it was issued without the senator 's permission . 
`` I blew it , '' Mr. Motley says apologetically . 
Small-business suppliers want prisons to stop getting high priority , especially as prison production grows with swelling inmate populations . 
The garage owners say they would benefit because car owners would be less likely to go back to dealers for the simpler repairs after two years . 
Shops represented by the Automotive Service Industry Association and the Motor Equipment Manufacturers Association oppose any increase in warranty length . 
They say the longer the warranty , the longer customers will automatically return to new-car dealers , which then find non-warranty work that might otherwise go to repair shops . 
He will remain on the Banc One board . 
The Kabul regime would fall . 
Millions of refugees would rush home . 
A resistance government would walk into Kabul . 
Those who bought that illusion are now bewildered . 
Eight months after Gen. Boris Gromov walked across the bridge into the U.S.S.R. , a Soviet-controlled regime remains in Kabul , the refugees sit in their camps , and the restoration of Afghan freedom seems as far off as ever . 
Soviet leaders said they would support their Kabul clients by all means necessary -- and did . The U.S. said it would fully support the resistance -- and did n't . 
The U.S. said it would fully support the resistance -- and did n't . 
The terms of the Geneva accords leave Moscow free to provide its clients in Kabul with assistance of any kind -- including the return of Soviet ground forces -- while requiring the U.S. and Pakistan to cut off aid . 
The only fly in the Soviet ointment was the last-minute addition of a unilateral American caveat , that U.S. aid to the resistance would continue as long as Soviet aid to Kabul did . 
In February 1989 , when the Soviets said they had completed their pullout , the U.S. cut it further . 
Gen. Gromov himself said Soviet troops expected to leave behind more than $ 1 billion of military equipment and installations for the Kabul regime . 
Since the troop withdrawal , Moscow has poured in an additional $ 200 to $ 300 million worth per month -- nearly $ 2 billion since February , equivalent to the total U.S. aid to the resistance in nine years . 
This includes what Deputy Foreign Minister Yuli Vorontsov fetchingly called `` new peaceful long-range weapons , '' including more than 800 SCUD missiles . 
Later that month , it added an entire tank brigade , including 120 T-72 tanks and more than 40 BMP state-of-the-art infantry fighting vehicles . 
By September , a new Reinforced Motorized Rifle Brigade with an additional 300 combat vehicles , 1,000 more trucks and 10,000 Soviet-trained Afghan troops had arrived in Kandahar . 
In the last few weeks , Moscow has added FROG-7B missiles , the bomber version of the An-12 , MiG-23BN high-altitude aircraft , MiG-29s , which can outfly Pakistan 's U.S.-built F16s , and Sukhoi SU-27 fighter-bombers , which can outfly the MiG-29s . 
It is well-known that the regular Afghan infantry is filled with reluctant conscripts . 
Complete units have been trained and indoctrinated in the U.S.S.R. and other East bloc nations ; 30,000 to 40,000 of these troops have returned . 
; 30,000 to 40,000 of these troops have returned . 
In preparation for the withdrawal , Moscow , Kabul and New Delhi signed two agreements for several hundred newly civilian Indian experts to replace some of the more visible Soviet military personnel . 
The Soviets cut a deal with Iran : a future Iranian role in Afghanistan in exchange for Iranian support of Soviet policy . 
The deal was symbolized by the restoration of the Shi'ite Sultan Ali Keshtmand to the Afghan prime ministry . 
Before his assassination in 1988 , President Zia of Pakistan repeatedly stated that fresh Soviet troops were being inserted into Afghanistan even as others were ostentatiously withdrawn . 
Rep. Bill McCollum -LRB- R. , Fla. -RRB- reports that these included 20,000 to 30,000 Soviet Central Asian KGB Border Guards , ethnically indistinguishable from Afghans and wearing unmarked uniforms . 
This heavy outside support for the worst has undermined better , moderate leaders . 
The deal fell through , and Kandahar remains a major regime base . 
Experienced resistance commanders wanted to use guerrilla action and siege tactics to wear down the regime . 
They took more than 25 % casualties ; journalists report that they faced minefields without mine detectors . 
; journalists report that they faced minefields without mine detectors . 
The wonder is not that the resistance has failed to topple the Kabul regime , but that it continues to exist and fight at all . 
Thus far there is no indication that they have been re-supplied with Stingers or other anti-aircraft weapons . 
A cutoff of U.S. military aid would merely abandon them to die in vain . 
Creation of a new , realistic U.S. policy is long overdue . 
Though he nominally supports both programs , Mr. Bush has n't been a passionate champion of either cause , as Mr. Reagan was . 
A combination of factors -- a weariness among some conservatives , a decline in the perception of a Soviet threat and a preoccupation with other issues -- seem to explain the strange tranquility . 
You hate to do it because he 's your father . '' 
Mr. Burton says conservatives ' unhappiness with Mr. Bush 's cautious handling of the recent unsuccessful coup in Panama will make them more willing to speak out . 
Mr. Bush has struck a deal with congressional leaders to provide nonlethal aid to the Contras until Nicaragua holds national elections next February . 
Instead of focusing on the Contras , Mr. Bush has switched to urging members of Congress -- most recently in a White House meeting yesterday -- to approve financing for the election campaign of political opponents of Nicaragua 's Sandinista government . 
The House has already voted for a deep cut in funding , and in the end the program 's backers will be hard pressed to head off some reduction in spending next year . 
The Soviets have agreed to complete a treaty cutting strategic weapons without including restrictions on space-based defenses . 
`` The short of it is that the most hard-bitten among us can not get into too sour a mood with communism collapsing , '' says Mitchell Daniels , a former Reagan White House aide who now is president of the Hudson Institute . 
Other conservative champions , like Wyoming Republican Sen. Malcolm Wallop , a longtime SDI advocate , do n't have the clout with the Bush White House that they enjoyed with President Reagan . 
`` For there to be wind in the sails of any program , the chief executive has to be blowing in the sails , '' says Rep. Burton . 
`` What I 'd like to see , if he is up to it , is for Reagan to take to the hustings to regenerate enthusiasm for SDI , '' the congressman says . 
Mr. Allen 's commissioners voted to call his unread speech `` thoughtless , disgusting and unnecessarily inflammatory . '' 
Commissioner Mary Francis Berry said it was `` another sad episode in the saga of the unguided missile who is chairman . '' 
Rep. Don Edwards , the California Democrat , warned Mr. Allen that the speech would be `` outside the scope of the commission 's jurisdiction . '' 
Thomas Stoddard , head of the Lambda Legal Defense Fund , called the prospect of the speech `` frankly shocking . '' 
He said that other participants in the conference `` do not believe that the rights of Americans should be guaranteed to citizens who are homosexual , '' but that `` I mean to persuade you to the opposite view . '' 
Rights on such a basis , whether for blacks or homosexuals , are `` mere indulgences , '' he said , subject to being taken back . 
His speech criticized the `` idiocy of notions of protected groups in society '' as opposed to individual equality or , as he put it , in `` a common destiny as Americans . '' 
Instead of lobbying for special treatment , Mr. Allen said that homosexuals and others should try to ensure equal treatment under the law and not aim for special privileges that would risk `` invidious retrenchment with government complicity . '' 
What 's really going on here ? 
He last made waves when he dared to defend an Indian girl who had been adopted by non-Indian parents off her reservation . 
Mr. Allen quickly ran up against the liberal establishment again , which somehow elevated the vague concept of `` Indian rights '' above the rights of individual Indians . 
Their ridicule of him is no substitute for argument . 
Their effort to run him out of Washington is an embarrassment to the original purpose of their own movement . 
We hope the next head of the Civil Rights Commission will be as brave as Mr. Allen in making the case for equality of civil rights . 
John C. Dannemiller , executive vice president and chief operating officer , will become president and chief operating officer . 
He did n't bite . 
At the GM stall , they barely looked at a gleaming Cadillac , preferring to talk about cooperation possibilities . 
Officials said 91 companies from 14 countries , including the U.S. , had displays , down from about 260 firms from more than 20 countries at the last show in 
A Daikin executive in charge of exports when the high-purity halogenated hydrocarbon was sold to the Soviets in 1986 received a suspended 10-month jail sentence . 
The newspaper Leninskoye Zamya said the committee decided the plan to parcel out economic powers previously exercised by Moscow to the country 's 15 republics `` does n't reflect the radical changes in the Soviet federation . '' 
The eucalyptus plantation and pulp mill , which would have covered about 175,000 acres in the Irian Jaya region , had been approved by Indonesia 's investment board . 
In Brussels , Hotel de Ventes Horta auctioned pistols and sabers - along with paintings and jewels . 
The auction house , known for its sales of top-drawer 19th and 20th century works , is providing `` a service to clients who do n't want to sell just their fabulous oil paintings , '' says Villa Grisebach 's Vivien Reuter . 
`` Everything has to be the same between countries , '' says Campo 's Stefan Campo , who is asking clients to sign protest petitions . 
`` Then there 'll be fair competition . '' 
Instead of banning such shopping , the confederation proposed amending controls to be sure the privilege is n't abused ... . 
Charges for staff cuts and other restructuring produced a net loss of $ 54.1 million , or 77 cents a share , in 1988 's third quarter . 
`` If you believe that a good performance next year is contingent on an acceleration of revenue , there is n't a lot here to base optimism on . '' 
Alex Henderson , an analyst with Prudential-Bache , says Polaroid officials told him yesterday that U.S. sales of the company 's new conventional film product , introduced in the second quarter , have been `` disappointing '' after a promising start . 
Mr. Yanes said the film , One Film , is currently carried at about 15,000 retail outlets , including drugstores and supermarkets . 
Last year , the company had a nine-month loss of $ 15.1 million , or 23 cents a share . 
: It plunged 60.25 points before lunch , with most of the drop occurring in 25 minutes . 
Richard Bernstein , senior quantitative analyst at Merrill Lynch & Co , says , `` My gut feel is that we 'll live with those swings for a while . '' 
`` We watch the same indicators and listen to the same prognosticators . 
Like lemmings , we tend to move in the same direction at same time . '' 
Investors believe they can can rely on such derivative securities to get in and out of the stock market without actually selling any stocks ; that is , a way of staying liquid even when they own stocks . 
`` It 's the idea that what goes in easy can come out easy '' -- so that bouts of higher volatility get built into the stock market . 
It added another 5 % Monday before stocks rallied . 
When they did , the firm reduced those stock holdings to about 70 % . 
Before the 1987 crash , an estimated $ 60 billion in institutional money was managed under this hedging technique . 
Others are doing `` index arbitrage '' a strategy of taking advantage of price discrepancies between stocks and futures . 
Wall Street traders say that , with institutional brokerage commissions far lower than in the 1970s , securities firms ca n't afford to take the risk of buying too much stock . 
`` I think everyone 's a little more leery , '' says Jack Baker , head of equity trading at Shearon Lehman Hutton Inc . 
`` The institutions have driven -LRB- commission -RRB- rates down to the point where it makes no sense to commit capital , '' says Tom Gallagher , senior executive vice president in charge of institutional trading at Oppenheimer & Co . 
`` Why should I risk money for a guy for who 's paying me five cents a dance ? 
Many traders say that `` circuit breakers '' put in place to damp volatility after the 1987 crash actually added to volatility when the stock market plunged Friday . 
The circuit breakers caused a 30-minute shutdown in trading in Standard & Poor 's 500-stock index futures contract as the markets were falling . 
`` It was scary to people thinking that they could n't get their trades off . '' 
UAL Corp. is a good example . 
Valued as a buy-out target , the airline stock was trading at nearly $ 280 a share . When the deal ran into trouble , the stock tumbled ; it closed at $ 198 yesterday . 
When the deal ran into trouble , the stock tumbled ; it closed at $ 198 yesterday . 
; it closed at $ 198 yesterday . 
Presumably , UAL is now trading closer to its value based on earnings . 
Scott Black , a value-oriented money manager who heads Delphi Management Inc. , points out that for those who invest on fundamentals , `` the value of a stock from day to day does n't change all that much . '' 
Hans Stoll , finance professor at Vanderbilt University , says the current volatility in U.S. markets pales in comparison to the 1930s , decades before derivative instruments such as options and futures were introduced . 
`` I just ca n't believe that the innovations in the financial market are causing any of this volatility , '' he says . 
In 1936 , John Maynard Keynes wrote that `` of the maxims of orthodox finance none , surely , is more antisocial than the fetish of liquidity . '' 
It leads investors to focus on short-term price movements -- `` a game of musical chairs , '' he called it -- rather than on long-term fundamental valuation . 
He estimated it could take a day for a computer security manager to expunge the virus from a computer system . 
If it finds one and gets into the system , it will display a screen when a user logs on that says , `` Worms Against Nuclear Killers ... . You talk of times of peace for all , and then prepare for war . '' 
If it finds one of those passwords , Mr. Alexander said , the worm will do such things as change users ' passwords to a series of random numbers , preventing them from signing on to the network . 
Yesterday , the number grew to 40 ; today the number is expected to grow to 100 . 
; today the number is expected to grow to 100 . 
Activists fear that if the shuttle carrying Galileo into orbit should explode , or if Galileo itself crashes into the Earth during the two times it flies close to the planet , fatal levels of plutonium would be released into the atmosphere . 
NASA said the Galileo worm had nothing to do with either delay . 
He said the Chaos Computer Club , of West Germany , once managed to invade SPAN and do such things as change the value of pi , messing up some calculations . 
Beginning in the early 19th century , with U.S. v. Hudson and Goodwin , the Supreme Court has repeatedly held that a judicial power to declare conduct to be against the public interest and hence criminal , while well established in British law , would usurp legislative authority under the doctrine of separation of powers . 
In 1983 , the Supreme Court tried to supply a workable definition in the Dirks v. SEC decision , which found that liability depended on whether the tipper had breached his fiduciary duty to the corporation in order to obtain `` some personal gain '' and whether the tippee knew or recklessly disregarded this fact . 
Consider the facts underlying the 1989 conviction of Robert Chestman . 
She called her daughter to take her to the bank , who , in turn , persuaded her husband , a Mr. Loeb , to run this errand . 
Hearing of this information , the husband discussed it with his broker , Mr. Chestman , and Mr. Chestman then bought for his own account and other clients . 
Basically , Mr. Chestman was a fourth-level tippee . 
Did Mr. Loeb , his tipper , breach a fiduciary duty -LRB- and , if so , to whom -RRB- ? 
Essentially , Mr. Freeman had invested heavily in the Beatrice leveraged buy-out , when he was told by another prominent trader , Bernard `` Bunny '' Lasker , that the deal was in trouble . After placing orders to sell , Mr. Freeman called Martin Siegel , an investment banker at Kidder , Peabody & Co. , who was advising on the deal , to confirm these rumors . Mr. Siegel asked Mr. Freeman who his source was and , on hearing that it was Bunny Lasker , responded : `` Well , your bunny has a good nose . '' 
After placing orders to sell , Mr. Freeman called Martin Siegel , an investment banker at Kidder , Peabody & Co. , who was advising on the deal , to confirm these rumors . 
Mr. Siegel asked Mr. Freeman who his source was and , on hearing that it was Bunny Lasker , responded : `` Well , your bunny has a good nose . '' 
Was there a fiduciary breach in order to obtain personal gain ? Had the case gone to trial the same issues would have surfaced : 
Arguably , both were on notice that their behavior was at least risky . 
After-the-fact judicial examination of an actor 's conduct has always been the common law 's method . 
When only civil liability is involved , this method has the undeniable strengths of factual specificity and avoidance of overgeneralization . 
When a court decides that a particular actor 's conduct was culpable and so extends the definition of insider trading to reach this conduct , it does not see the potentially enormous number of other cases that will be covered by the expanded rule . 
Today , after Mr. Freeman 's plea , there is an uncertainty that is both unfair and inefficient . 
In 1987 , the Supreme Court attempted in McNally v. U.S. to halt the inexorable expansion of these statutes by adopting a rule of strict construction for ambiguous criminal statues . Yet , late last year , Congress effectively reversed this decision by enacting a one-sentence statute that defined fraud to include any scheme to deprive another of `` the intangible right of honest services . '' At a stroke , this may criminalize all fiduciary breaches -LRB- and possibly all misrepresentations by an agent or employee -RRB- . 
At a stroke , this may criminalize all fiduciary breaches -LRB- and possibly all misrepresentations by an agent or employee -RRB- . 
We are confronted less with a judicial power grab than with a legislative giveaway . 
Predictably , when confronted with morally dubious behavior , prosecutors will exploit the latitude such openended statutes give them . 
A year earlier , net included a $ 700,000 taxlow carry-forward . 
Nervous investors continued to limit their buying to blue-chip stocks while dumping takeover-related issues . 
Decliners on the Big Board outnumbered advancers , 931 to 658 . 
The stock tumbled 24 7\/8 to 198 on volume of 2.8 million shares . 
UAL , which is trying to reconstruct a buy-out bid that banks would n't finance , represents the future of one of the most powerful ingredients in the bull market - corporate restructuring . 
An important element of this phenomenon -- the now-shaky market for junk bonds , used often to finance restructurings and takeovers -- continued to cast a pall over stocks . 
This Friday brings the `` double witching hour , '' Wall Street 's nickname for the monthly simultaneous expiration of a variety of stock index futures , index options and options on individual stocks . 
Traders are already buckling their seat belts . 
Previous monthly expirations of the Major Market Index futures and Standard & Poor 's 100-stock index options have produced spectacular volatility . 
Investors `` are buying stocks that have predictable earnings , '' said Edward J. Laux , head of block trading at Kidder Peabody . 
Citicorp fell 1\/2 to 32 , and Manufacturers Hanover slipped 3\/8 to 40 1\/4 . 
The Dow Jones Transportation Average fell 49.96 to close at 1254.27 . 
AMR , the parent of American Airlines , continued to retreat in the wake of New York developer Donald Trump 's decision to withdraw his $ 120-a-share takeover bid . The stock fell 3 1\/4 to 73 1\/4 on 3.4 million shares . 
The stock fell 3 1\/4 to 73 1\/4 on 3.4 million shares . 
Delta Air Lines fell 1 7\/8 to 67 7\/8 , USAir Group dropped 3\/4 to 40 1\/4 , Southwest Airlines dipped 1\/2 to 25 and Alaska Air Group slid 3\/8 to 24 1\/4 . 
Eastern said it is ahead of schedule in resuming its operations after filing earlier this year for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection , from which it expects to emerge early next year . 
Other blue-chip consumer issues also fared relatively well : PepsiCo rose 1 3\/8 to 58 1\/2 ; Coca-Cola Co. was unchanged at 66 3\/4 ; McDonald 's also closed unchanged at 30 1\/2 , and Merck rose 1\/2 to 75 1\/4 . 
: PepsiCo rose 1 3\/8 to 58 1\/2 ; Coca-Cola Co. was unchanged at 66 3\/4 ; McDonald 's also closed unchanged at 30 1\/2 , and Merck rose 1\/2 to 75 1\/4 . 
; Coca-Cola Co. was unchanged at 66 3\/4 ; McDonald 's also closed unchanged at 30 1\/2 , and Merck rose 1\/2 to 75 1\/4 . 
; McDonald 's also closed unchanged at 30 1\/2 , and Merck rose 1\/2 to 75 1\/4 . 
Standard & Poor 's 500-stock index fell 1.69 to 341.16 , and the New York Stock Exchange Composite Index fell 0.88 to 188.89 . 
Philips Industries tumbled 3\/8 to 22 7\/8 ; Hilton Hotels fell 2 1\/2 to 92 and Holiday Corp. fell 2 1\/8 to 69 7\/8 . 
; Hilton Hotels fell 2 1\/2 to 92 and Holiday Corp. fell 2 1\/8 to 69 7\/8 . 
International Paper fell 1 3\/8 to 51 1\/2 , Union Carbide eased 7\/8 to 25 , Chevron gained 1\/8 to 64 , and Eastman Kodak closed down 3\/4 to 44 1\/4 . 
Among the three worst-performing groups , with declines of 10 % to 20 % , are airlines , casinos and securities brokers . 
The Nasdaq composite index closed down 1.05 to 459.93 on volume of 161.5 million shares . 
`` Because there is a lot more volatility now , if guys see that they can make a quick 10 % or 15 % profit , they 'll take it . '' 
The company 's third-quarter earnings were below both analysts ' forecasts and the year-earlier level . 
The company reported that earnings from operations for the September quarter were up about 25 % from a year earlier . 
DWG Corp. jumped 1 1\/4 to 15 on 454,100 shares . 
Carnival Cruise Lines Class A dropped 1 to 21 1\/8 on 331,400 shares . 
Eastern 's Class F preferred rose 12 % , or 1 1\/4 , to 11 3\/4 ; the Class E preferred gained 7 % , or 5\/8 , to 10 1\/4 . 
; the Class E preferred gained 7 % , or 5\/8 , to 10 1\/4 . 
On Monday , the company , a provider of environmental consulting services , reported a wider fiscal fourth-quarter loss and predicted a loss for its fiscal 1990 first quarter , but said a profit is expected for all of fiscal 1990 . 
In part , the trust cited the need to retain cash for possible acquisitions . 
According to a spokesman , One Liberty will have paid out as dividends the required amount of its taxable income to maintain its legal status as a real estate investment trust . 
Investors can get slightly higher yields on deposits below $ 50,000 than they can on deposits of $ 90,000 and up . 
`` October is a big rollover month and perhaps they anticipate greater demand ... among people leaving the stock market . '' 
`` Reports from branches are that there has been greater interest in the last day or so , '' said Steven Braitman , a vice president at Chemical Bank in New York . 
Chemical said deposits Monday were about $ 5 million higher than usual and it expects more activity as investors receive the proceeds from sales of stock . 
Six-month CDs of $ 50,000 and less yielded an average 8.02 % in the week ended Tuesday , down from 8.10 % , according to Banxquote . The yield on six-month T-bills fell to 7.82 % on Monday , from 8.01 % the week before . 
The yield on six-month T-bills fell to 7.82 % on Monday , from 8.01 % the week before . 
Mr. Mehl noted that actual rates are almost identical on small and large-denomination CDs , but yields on CDs aimed at the individual investor are boosted by more frequent compounding . 
In late April , when interest rates were at their recent highs , short-term CDs sold by brokers were offering yields half a percentage point or more higher than banks . 
`` What happened in the stock market and the bigger trade deficit '' reported yesterday `` make it unlikely that short-term interest rates will rise '' any time soon , said Mr. Mehl of Banxquote . 
`` That puts pressure on CD rates . 
At the recent meetings of the World Bank and International Monetary Fund , the Bush administration announced its intention to decide by yearend the size of the next increase in the IMF 's capital base . 
This would be consistent with its unwavering support for the Brady Plan and G-7 exchange-rate intervention , and with its financial commitment to Mexico , Poland and others . 
Its role in the economies of developing countries has grown steadily since the 1970s . 
The size and pace of disbursements will accelerate further under the Brady Plan , which promises larger and earlier disbursements to approved countries . 
Japan has supported a larger role for the IMF in developing-country debt issues , and is an important financial resource for IMF-guided programs in developing countries . 
Opponents of the increase argue that the IMF practices central planning while supporting ineffective governments . 
They question whether the IMF has any role in developing countries , given its original mandate to assist industrial countries in balance-of-payments emergencies . 
They worry that new IMF funding of developing countries will simply end up substituting IMF debt for reschedulable commercial bank debt , a bad trade all around . 
They believe microeconomics , which addresses the problems of markets , investment climate and management practices , is the key to developing-country growth , not the IMF 's Keynesian focus on trade deficits , quarterly targets and government debt . 
They point at the numerous developing-country governments that have inflated , taxed and regulated themselves into despair under successive IMF programs . 
Liberals may support the stabilizing , quasi-governmental role of the IMF on two conditions : that the administration give assurances that liberal Democrats ' support will not be used against them in congressional re-election campaigns ; and that the legislation address -- with dollars -- social and environmental concerns . Conservative Republicans will be given the choice of supporting or fighting their party 's popular president in an election year . 
Conservative Republicans will be given the choice of supporting or fighting their party 's popular president in an election year . 
Commentators would fret over the implications for the G-7 coordination process and the stability of world financial markets . 
Because commercial banks and the developing-country governments believe they will get a piece of any capital increase , a scaled-down IMF mission would leave both feeling shortchanged . 
With the increase , even more developing-country energy and talent would be diverted from creating profitable economic systems to setting up economic planning ministries that generate IMF-approved economic plans . 
Upping the ante could slow economic development even further , as countries delay market-opening steps in anticipation of richer multilateral support . 
The issues are too important to be left to the financial and budget ministries fighting over the size of the capital increase , rather than its purpose . 
The Merc said Mr. Roberts withheld from the market certain orders in cooperation with another trader , David Stein . 
`` It is important to the cable industry that we have a vibrant and competitive pay-television marketplace , '' Mr. Malone said in a statement . 
He added , `` We do n't intend to be drawn into it , '' noting that TCI wo n't play any active role in the management of Showtime . 
`` This takes any question of Showtime 's viability and puts it away once and for all , '' Mr. Biondi said in a telephone interview . 
`` We do n't want to bring back something the members will reject . '' 
After Mr. Ackerman announced he was soliciting consents from shareholders in order to wrest control of Datapoint from Mr. Edelman , the corporate raider purchased 30 % of Datapoint 's shares . 
The purchases increased his stake to 16.2 % of the shares outstanding . 
It warns that the AIDS epidemic `` may reduce the rate of growth of the work force , curb productivity gains and slow economic growth . '' 
The dollar finished at its intraday highs . 
Economists had expected a $ 9.1 billion gap . 
In late New York trading yesterday , the dollar was quoted at 1.8667 marks , down from 1.8685 marks late Monday , and at 142.75 yen , up from 141.85 yen late Monday . 
Sterling was unchanged at $ 1.5753 . 
In the ratings compiled by the A.C. Nielsen Co. , ABC , which broadcast the World Series , topped the competition with a 14.8 rating and 25 share . 
The highest-rated show continues to be ABC 's `` Roseanne . '' 
; ABC had four and CBS had one . 
The acquisition `` gives us additional production capacity for the food service coffee business and a stronger distribution network , '' a P&G spokesman said . 
MacMillan Bloedel , a Vancouver , British Columbia , forest products concern , said the 8.1 % loan is due Oct. 16 , 1996 . 
Funds will be used to repay existing short-term debt and to finance capital spending , it said . 
DFC asked the central bank to appoint managers after it revised loan-loss provisions to around the same level of shareholders ' funds of 180 million New Zealand dollars -LRB- US$ 105.4 million -RRB- . 
Its effectiveness ca n't be determined until a large clinical trial is undertaken by the Army in January , according to Robert Redfield , chief of acquired immune deficiency syndrome research at Walter Reed Army Institute of Research . 
`` We 've demonstrated that you can . '' 
Other antibodies sparked by the preparation are of a sort rarely present in large quantities in infected or ill individuals , he added . 
The administration officials do n't ordinarily meet with the entire membership of the open market committee . 
Sales for the quarter slipped 2.7 % to $ 601.3 million from $ 618.1 million . 
Prices for general-purpose PVC resin have dropped more than 15 % since last December , he said . 
Third-quarter operating profit of the specialty-chemicals group declined slightly to $ 24.3 million from $ 24.9 million . 
GM is likely to reach the cooperative operating pact it has been seeking in about two weeks , knowledgeable individuals say . 
A victor in the fight for Jaguar may not emerge until after the expiration late next year of British government takeover restrictions . 
The curbs prevent a buyer from purchasing more than 15 % of Jaguar shares without permission . 
`` This is an exceptionally odd takeover battle , '' says London analyst Christopher Will of Shearson Lehman Hutton . 
Fears that Ford 's ardor might be cooling put Jaguar shares into reverse after GM confirmed its friendly negotiations with Jaguar . 
`` Sit tight '' through the coming volatility , Mr. Reitman suggests , though he concedes that many small investors will find Jaguar 's zigzags `` too hard to swallow . '' 
Ford might challenge the proposal by offering a full bid if holders and the U.K. government agreed to drop the anti-takeover barrier early . 
`` I think Ford is going to come out with full guns blazing , '' Mr. Reitman says . 
`` Ford wants -LCB- Jaguar -RCB- very much . '' 
U.S. takeover-stock speculators , who may own between 20 % and 30 % of Jaguar , could give Ford enough votes to block the GM deal . 
He believes Jaguar 's share price could zoom to between # 8 and # 10 -LRB- $ 12.60 to $ 15.80 -RRB- . 
At the moment , he intends to keep the firm 's 180,000 Jaguar shares . 
`` Ford 's appetite to attack -LCB- Jaguar -RCB- could gradually wane over time , particularly if Saab is a reasonably attractive proposition , '' says John Lawson , an auto analyst at London 's Nomura Research Institute . 
He thinks Saab-Scania AB on Friday will announce the sale of 50 % of its car division to Ford ; the companies have been discussing closer cooperation for months . 
`` I thought the probabilities of -LCB- a bidding war -RCB- happening were less , '' he says . 
Of course , that was before Ford 's latest move . 
Revenue rose to $ 235.2 million , from $ 176.4 million . 
The stock had hit a high of $ 81 a share early last week but collapsed to $ 73.50 in the Friday stock plunge . 
The trend drove up the aftertax margin -- net income as a percentage of revenues -- to 21.1 % in the quarter , compared with 20.7 % a year earlier . 
While it has predicted that overall growth in unit sales of personal computers is slowing to about a 10 % yearly rate , its own products are selling at a much faster rate because many are geared to the high-performance end of the market . 
That segment continues to post strong quarter-to-quarter gains , while the low-end , or commodity segment , of the industry is experiencing sluggish growth or even sales declines . 
The accord with MIPS calls for Control Data to share its expertise in data storage , the companies said . 
UAL has fallen $ 87.25 , or 31 % , in the three trading days since disclosure of the buy-out 's collapse jolted the stock market . 
The Dow Jones industrials closed off 18.65 points , at 2638.73 , after plunging over 60.25 points in the morning . 
Bond prices ended lower after an early rally , while the dollar was mixed . 
Exports declined for the second month in a row , while imports rose to a record . 
An analyst called it one of the worst trade reports since the dollar bottomed out in 
An analyst cited weaker capital spending and exports . 
Merck 's profit climbed 25 % , Warner-Lambert 's 22 % and Eli Lilly 's 24 % . 
It has since asked holders not to immediately tender their shares under a recent $ 72-a-share , or $ 104 million , bid from AB SKF of Sweden , until McGill directors have completed their evaluation . 
Mr. Turner said the test initially will be used in conjunction with biopsies and other tests , but eventually might become the benchmark for tumor analysis . 
`` We do n't know yet how useful it 's going to be , '' he said . 
Two weeks ago , viewers of several NBC daytime consumer segments started calling a 900 number for advice on various life-style issues . 
Eventually viewers may grow bored with the technology and resent the cost . 
`` With the competitiveness of the television market these days , everyone is looking for a way to get viewers more excited . '' 
Blair Entertainment , a New York firm that advises TV stations and sells ads for them , has just formed a subsidiary -- 900 Blair -- to apply the technology to television . 
For a while , high-cost pornography lines and services that tempt children to dial -LRB- and redial -RRB- movie or music information earned the service a somewhat sleazy image , but new legal restrictions are aimed at trimming excesses . 
MTV used one to give away the house that rock star Jon Bon Jovi grew up in . 
For several years , Turner Broadcasting System 's Cable News Network has invited viewers to respond nightly to topical issues -LRB- `` Should the U.S. military intervene in Panama ? '' -RRB- , but even the hottest controversies on CNN log only about 10,000 calls . 
Capital Cities\/ABC Inc. , CBS Inc. and General Electric Co. 's National Broadcasting Co. unit are expected to announce soon a joint campaign to raise awareness about hunger . 
The subject will be written into the plots of prime-time shows , and viewers will be given a 900 number to call . 
Callers will be sent educational booklets , and the call 's modest cost will be an immediate method of raising money . 
ABC Sports was looking for ways to lift deflated halftime ratings for `` Monday Night Football . '' 
Kurt Sanger , ABC Sports 's marketing director , says that now `` tens of thousands '' of fans call its 900 number each week to vote for the best punt return , quarterback sack , etc . 
: After thanking callers for voting , Frank Gifford offers a football videotape for $ 19.95 , and 5 % of callers stay on the line to order it . 
Jackets may be sold next . 
A spokesman said its purpose is `` to bolster the impression that NBC Sports is always there for people . '' 
: On Mondays , Unilever N.V. 's Lever Bros. sponsors tips on diet and exercise , followed by a 30-second Lever Bros. commercial . 
If the caller stays on the line and leaves a name and address for the sponsor , coupons and a newsletter will be mailed , and the sponsor will be able to gather a list of desirable potential customers . 
She would n't say what the premium is , but it 's believed to be about 40 % above regular daytime rates . 
Experts are predicting a big influx of new shows in 1990 , when a service called `` automatic number information '' will become widely available . 
This service identifies each caller 's phone number , and it can be used to generate instant mailing lists . 
`` For a piece on local heroes of World War II , we can ask people to leave the name and number of anyone they know who won a medal , '' he says . 
`` That 'll save us time and get people involved . '' 
`` These are just baby steps toward real interactive video , which I believe will be the biggest thing yet to affect television , '' he says . 
Although it would be costly to shoot multiple versions , TV programmers could let audiences vote on different endings for a movie . 
Fox Broadcasting experimented with this concept last year when viewers of `` Married ... With Children '' voted on whether Al should say `` I love you '' to Peg on Valentine 's Day . 
`` A menu by phone could let you decide , ` I 'm interested in just the beginning of story No. 1 , and I want story No. 2 in depth , '' Mr. Monsky says . 
`` You 'll start to see shows where viewers program the program . 
The company did n't disclose the new estimate but said the change was related to Integrated 's failure to sell its core businesses , as well as `` other events , '' which it did n't detail , that occurred after its announcement last week that it was in talks with the unidentified prospective buyer . 
Whitehall cited concerns about how long Integrated would be able to hold together the sales force as one reason its talks with Integrated failed . 
Some buildings collapsed , gas and water lines ruptured and fires raged . 
The quake , which also caused damage in San Jose and Berkeley , knocked out electricity and telephones , cracked roadways and disrupted subway service in the Bay Area . 
Moscow , which left the group in 1983 to avoid explusion over allegations that political dissidents were being certified as insane , could be suspended if the misuse of psychiatry against dissenters is discovered during a review within a year . 
The flight was rescheduled for today . 
A White House spokesman said that while Bush would n't alter a longstanding ban on such involvement , `` there 's a clarification needed '' on its interpretation . 
The move by the Convention on Trade in Endangered Species , meeting in Switzerland , places the elephant on the endangered-species list . 
An anonymous caller to a local radio station said cocaine traffickers had slain the magistrate in retaliation for the extraditions of Colombians wanted on drug charges in the U.S. . 
They stopped short of resuming diplomatic ties , severed in 1979 . 
The plunge followed a drop of $ 56.875 Monday , amid indications the takeover may take weeks to be revived . 
`` This is a total bloodbath '' for takeover-stock traders , one investment banker said . 
A similar demand was made by a group that represents some of United 's 26,000 noncontract employees . 
Although Mr. Wolf and John Pope , UAL 's chief financial officer , stood to pocket $ 114.3 million for stock and options in the buy-out , UAL executives planned to reinvest only $ 15 million in the new company . 
Several reports as the day progressed gave vague or conflicting indications about whether banks would sign up . 
Last week , just before the bank commitments were due , the union asked the U.S. Labor Department to study whether the bid violated legal standards of fairness governing employee investment funds . 
Mr. Kellner said that despite losses on UAL stock , his firm 's health is `` excellent . '' 
Although it may not be legally obligated to sell the company if the buy-out group ca n't revive its bid , it may have to explore alternatives if the buyers come back with a bid much lower than the group 's original $ 300-a-share proposal . 
The company said it expects to pay the first dividend , of 12.5 cents a share , in the 1990 first quarter . 
The total borrowing will be about $ 208 million , the company said . 
It attracts people with funny hair -LRB- or with no hair -- in front of me a girl with spiked locks sat beside a boy who had shaved his -RRB- . 
Whoever constitute the local Left Bank come out in force , dressed in black , along with a smattering of yuppies who want to be on the cutting edge . 
People in Glass houses tend to look stoned . 
He sits down at the piano and plays . 
The typical Glass audience , which is more likely to be composed of music students than their teachers , certainly does . 
Philip Glass is the emperor , and his music the new clothes , of the avant-garde . 
The piano compositions , which have been labeled variously as minimalist , Oriental , repetitive , cyclical , monophonic and hypnotic , are relentlessly tonal -LRB- therefore unthreatening -RRB- , unvaryingly rhythmic -LRB- therefore soporific -RRB- , and unflaggingly harmonious but unmelodic -LRB- therefore both pretty and unconventional -RRB- . 
It is music for people who want to hear something different but do n't want to work especially hard at the task . 
It is E-Z listening for the now generation . 
His more is always less . 
Far from being minimalist , the music unabatingly torments us with apparent novelties not so cleverly disguised in the simplicities of 4\/4 time , octave intervals , and ragtime or gospel chord progressions . 
`` Opening '' -LRB- 1981 -RRB- , from Glassworks , introduces the audience to the Glass technique : Never straying too far from the piano 's center , Mr. Glass works in the two octaves on either side of middle C , and his fingers seldom leave the keys . 
: Never straying too far from the piano 's center , Mr. Glass works in the two octaves on either side of middle C , and his fingers seldom leave the keys . 
The music is not especially pianistic ; indeed , it 's hard to imagine a bad performance of it . 
Nothing bravura , no arpeggios , no ticklish fingering problems challenge the performer . 
We hear , we may think , inner voices , but they all seem to be saying the same thing . 
His hands sit farther apart on the keyboard . 
Seventh chords make you feel as though he may break into a -LRB- very slow -RRB- improvisatory riff . 
The chords modulate , but there is little filigree even though his fingers begin to wander over more of the keys . 
Contrasts predictably accumulate : First the music is loud , then it becomes soft , then -LRB- you realize -RRB- it becomes louder again . 
`` The Fourth Knee Play , '' an interlude from `` Einstein on the Beach , '' is like a toccata but it does n't seem to move much beyond its left-hand ground in `` Three Blind Mice . '' 
He does this in at least three of his solo pieces . 
You might call it a leitmotif or a virtuoso accomplishment . 
`` Mad Rush '' began its life as the accompaniment to the Dalai Lama 's first public address in the U.S. , when Mr. Glass played it on the organ at New York 's Cathedral of St. John the Divine . Later it was performed on Radio Bremen in Germany , and then Lucinda Childs took it for one of her dance pieces . 
The point is that any piece can be used as background music for virtually anything . 
Parts 1 , 2 , and 5 come from the soundtrack of Errol Morris 's acclaimed film , `` The Thin Blue Line , '' and the two other parts from incidental music to two separate dramatizations of the Kafka story of the same name . 
When used as background in this way , the music has an appropriate eeriness , as when a two-note phrase , a descending minor third , accompanies the seemingly endless litany of reports , interviews and confessions of witnesses in the Morris film . 
Its supposedly austere minimalism overlays a bombast that makes one yearn for the astringency of neoclassical Stravinsky , the genuinely radical minimalism of Berg and Webern , and what in retrospect even seems like concision in Mahler . 
A 20 % stake would allow Honeywell to include Yamatake earnings in its results . 
The previous period 's results included a $ 108 million pretax charge related to unrecoverable contract costs and a $ 12.3 million pretax gain on real estate sales . 
Sales for the latest quarter were flat , at $ 1.72 billion . 
Sales declined slightly to $ 5.17 billion . 
In an excursus of little relevance to his central point about private enforcement suits by environmental groups , Michael S. Greve informs your readers , `` ... the Clean Water Act is written upon the presumption -- the pretense , rather -- that nothing but zero risk will do ; it establishes a legal standard of zero discharge '' -LRB- `` Congress's Environmental Buccaneers , '' Sept. 18 -RRB- . This statement surely buttresses your editorial viewpoint that environmental protection is generally silly or excessive , but it is simply wrong . 
; it establishes a legal standard of zero discharge '' -LRB- `` Congress's Environmental Buccaneers , '' Sept. 18 -RRB- . 
The Clean Water Act contains no `` legal standard '' of zero discharge . 
It requires that `` discharges of pollutants '' into the `` waters of the United States '' be authorized by permits that reflect the effluent limitations developed under section 301 . 
Whatever may be the problems with this system , it scarcely reflects `` zero risk '' or `` zero discharge . '' 
This fatuous statement was not taken seriously when enacted in 1972 , and should not now be confused with the operative provisions of the statute . 
; your tippling readers may be led to believe that nothing but chance or oversight protects them , as they cower in the night with their scotch and waters , from the hairyknuckled knock of the Sierra Club at their doors . 
Despite renewed interest by the public in such topics as the environment and the Third World , it has n't been able to shake its reputation as a magazine boys like to flip through in search of topless tribe women . 
Worse , it lagged behind competitors in offering now-standard gimmicks , from regional editions to discounts for frequent advertisers . 
`` What we want to do is take a more aggressive stance . 
People did n't believe we were in tune with the marketplace , and in many ways we were n't . '' 
It largely rested on its hard-to-fault demographics : 10.8 million subscribers in the first half , up from 10.5 million a year ago ; an average age of 42 for readers -- at the height of their consuming years ; loyalty to the tune of an 85 % average subscription renewal rate . 
The reason , ad executives say , is that the entire magazine business has been soft -- and National Geographic has some quirks that make it especially unattractive during a soft market . 
When ad dollars are tight , the high page cost is a major deterrent for advertisers , who generally want to appear regularly in a publication or not at all . 
It now offers 30 regional editions , it very recently began running ads adjacent to articles , and it has been beefing up its sales force . 
In one ad , a photo of the interior of the Sainte-Chapelle in Paris is paired with the headline , `` The only book more respected than ours does n't accept advertising . '' 
Another ad pictures a tree ant , magnified 80 times , with the headline , `` For impact far beyond your size consider our regional editions . '' 
Whether she can meet that ambitious goal is still far from certain . 
`` We want it to be a '90s kind of image . '' 
He was executive vice president , director of broadcast production . 
While not specifically mentioned in the FBI charges , dual trading became a focus of attempts to tighten industry regulations . 
Critics contend that traders were putting buying or selling for their own accounts ahead of other traders ' customer orders . 
The exchanges say liquidity becomes a severe problem for thinly traded contracts such as those with a long time remaining before expiration . 
The agency did n't cite specific situations where dual trading might be allowed , but smaller exchanges or contracts that need additional liquidity are expected to be among them . 
Whether a trade is done on a dual or non-dual basis , the member said , `` does n't seem to have much economic impact . '' 
The House 's bill would prohibit dual trading in markets with daily average volume of 7,000 contracts or more , comprising those considered too difficult to track without a sophisticated computer system . 
The Senate bill would force the CFTC to suspend dual trading if an exchange ca n't show that its oversight system can detect dual-trading abuses . 
The Chicago Merc banned dual trading in its Standard & Poor 's 500-stock index futures pit in 1987 . Under the rules , traders decide before a session begins whether they will trade for their own account or for customers . Traders who stand on the pit 's top step , where most customer orders are executed , ca n't trade for themselves . A Merc spokesman said the plan has n't made much difference in liquidity in the pit . 
Under the rules , traders decide before a session begins whether they will trade for their own account or for customers . 
Traders who stand on the pit 's top step , where most customer orders are executed , ca n't trade for themselves . 
`` It 's too soon to tell ... but people do n't seem to be unhappy with it , '' he said . 
He said he would n't comment on the CFTC plan until the exchange has seen the full proposal . 
It adds something to the market . 
Specifications include a polished bronze sculpture at the center of each showroom and a tile bridge spanning a stream that flows into the building from outside . 
Some are even coming up with their own novel designs . 
Lee Seidman of Cleveland says Infiniti `` was a bear on interiors '' but at least let him retrofit an existing building -- without the stream . 
Mr. Seidman says he turned down a Lexus franchise in part because `` the building was gorgeous but very expensive . '' 
That 's the lesson offered through one case study featured in a design exhibit . 
Blocked by patent protection from following suit , Dictaphone decided to go a step further and cut the cassette in half again -- down to the length of a paperclip . 
By 1979 , designers and engineers at Dictaphone , a Pitney Bowes subsidiary , had produced a working model of a `` picocassette '' recorder . 
Both were right . 
To date , says Emil Jachmann , a Dictaphone vice president , it has `` broken even or shown a small loss . '' 
It helped Dictaphone attract better engineers , and it provided new technology for other company products . 
: The lower teeth gathered the leaves into a pile , while the higher , harder teeth moved the top of the pile . 
Richard Mason , president of Ames Co. in Parkersburg , W. Va. , says the Barrett rake `` makes sense , '' but it would be `` tough '' to explain to consumers . 
`` They either pick it up , '' he says , `` or they start pulling from a fresh direction . '' 
Four tubular steel `` Bedfellows , '' each roughly in the shape of a `` W , '' are attached to the bottom of the box spring in a recessed position ... . 
Living there for six years was really scary . 
The ghosts of the past are everywhere : They are kept at bay only by feeding them vast quantities of our defense budget . 
During the Korean War , Gen. Douglas MacArthur demanded and got , in addition to his U.N. command in Korea , his own naval command in Japan , NavforJapan . 
Those obsolete operations cost less than $ 2 billion a year , and keep Mac 's ghost quiet . 
In 1941 , Raeder and the German navy threatened to attack the Panama Canal , so we created the Southern Command in Panama . 
The Southern Command has grown even bigger since the war because Raeder 's ghost sometimes runs through the E ring dressed like Gen. Noriega . 
The Command 's huge bureaucracy is needed to analyze whether leaders of coups against Gen. Noriega meet the War Powers Act 's six points , Cap Weinberger 's seven points , the Intelligence Committee 's 32 points and Woodrow Wilson 's 14 points necessary to justify U.S. support . 
So far no one has . 
The brigade has n't been heard from since , but we keep the staff around just in case . 
We keep a lot of shrines to him around the Pentagon : statues , busts , relics and such . 
The Army headquarters on the third deck of the Pentagon used to burn a lot of incense to him , but the Navy headquarters on the fourth deck made them stop it . 
You see , Marshall had this thing about the Navy and the Marines -- he wanted to make them part of the Army but Secretary of the Navy James Forrestal blocked him . 
Now his ghost wo n't let up till it 's done . 
When the shah died , President Carter was so scared that the shah 's ghost would blame him for shoving him out to make way for the ayatollah that he declared the Carter Doctrine . 
Mr. Carter said he would go to war to stop anyone from trying to grab Iran . 
; he knew the RDF was neither rapid nor deployable nor a force -- even though it cost $ 8 billion or $ 10 billion a year . 
It made my shoelaces dance with terror . 
Why , he used to lay in wait for Cap ; suddenly he 'd leap from behind some statue of Marshall onto Cap 's chest and grab him by the throat and choke him till he coughed up an additional $ 2 billion or so . 
; suddenly he 'd leap from behind some statue of Marshall onto Cap 's chest and grab him by the throat and choke him till he coughed up an additional $ 2 billion or so . 
He bought $ 4 billion in prepositioning ships and $ 7 billion in ammo and equipment to fill them , and parked them at a new $ 6 billion base at Diego Garcia in the middle of the Indian Ocean . 
Before they let him go he added a thousand bureaucrats to the RDF in Tampa and renamed it Central Command . 
He gave those bureaucrats charge of all naval operations in the Persian Gulf and Indian Ocean . 
They had fun moving the carriers around , but it turned out that they had forgotten all about mine sweepers . 
Lucky for Cap , Ike was easygoing and soon went away , while the shah -- he kept coming back . 
All these reports about him committing genocide are probably exaggerated anyway . 
He appeared late one night in the bedroom of the new defense secretary , Dick Cheney . 
He would n't leave until Mr. Cheney promised to do whatever the Pentagon systems analysts told him . 
Marshall 's ghost is satisfied for now , but he 'll be back . 
They know that they can hold off the ghosts only a little while longer by cutting carriers and ships . 
Gives me the willies just thinking about it . 
In an international buying spree that began barely two years ago , Mr. Paul amassed a collection of about 30 pre-18th-century works , including the Preti , at a total cost of $ 28 million . By midnight Oct. 6 , all of the paintings were supposed to have been sold off , under orders from Florida 's comptroller , whose office regulates the state 's S&Ls . CenTrust did n't meet the deadline . The collection was at the heart of a grandiose plan Mr. Paul had in which the art was to do double duty -- as an investment for CenTrust and as decoration for the S&L 's new office tower , designed by I.M. Pei . The rub is that the $ 28 million was plucked from the funds of this federally insured institution even as CenTrust was losing money hand over fist . Mr. Paul had no right to buy art for the S&L in the first place -- it is n't on the comptroller 's `` permissible '' list -- without seeking a special dispensation , which he did not do . Besides that , some of the paintings that were to grace the walls of CenTrust actually ended up hanging in the chairman 's estate on La Gorce Isle off Miami Beach . 
CenTrust did n't meet the deadline . 
The rub is that the $ 28 million was plucked from the funds of this federally insured institution even as CenTrust was losing money hand over fist . 
Mr. Paul had no right to buy art for the S&L in the first place -- it is n't on the comptroller 's `` permissible '' list -- without seeking a special dispensation , which he did not do . 
The acquisitions , officials said in a letter to Mr. Paul , were `` unsafe , unsound and unauthorized . '' 
The comptroller 's office says it is `` monitoring the situation . '' 
There 's no fire sale here . '' 
Although Mr. Paul has pared a $ 1.35 billion junk-bond portfolio to less than $ 900 million since April , the high-yield debt market has plummeted . 
Divesting itself of what is left , as is required of all thrift institutions by July 1994 under the new federal S&L bailout law , may well prove difficult . 
Late last week federal regulators ordered the thrift institution to stop paying dividends on its preferred stock -- a move that suggests deep concern about an institution . 
Mr. Paul has a plan to bring in $ 150 million by selling off 63 of CenTrust 's 71 branches , but it has yet to be approved by regulators . 
Embittered shareholders -LRB- some of whom are suing -RRB- say the chairman and his collection epitomize the excesses of speculation that set off the national S&L crisis . 
-LRB- CenTrust shares have fallen sharply in price from a high of $ 15.125 in 1986 to close yesterday at $ 2.875 . -RRB- 
`` They say , ` Johnny Payson got $ 53 million for his , so certainly $ 10 million is n't too much for mine . ' 
Mr. Payson , an art dealer and collector , sold Vincent van Gogh 's `` Irises '' at a Sotheby 's auction in November 1987 to Australian businessman Alan Bond . 
-LRB- Trouble is , Mr. Bond has yet to pay up , and until he does , Sotheby 's has the painting under lock and key . -RRB- 
There , on one of his first shopping trips , Mr. Paul picked up several paintings at stunning prices . 
The price paid was a record for the artist . 
The rest were withdrawn for lack of acceptable bids . -RRB- 
Mr. Paul denies phoning and gloating . 
`` It 's just not true , '' he says . 
People were interested in seeing him , but it was recognized that the route was through Sotheby 's and particularly George Wachter . '' 
Sotheby 's , the auction house founded in London 1744 and now under the umbrella of Sotheby 's Holdings Inc. , was hoping to stir up interest in old masters as it strove to build its U.S. business . 
`` An unknown quantity to most of the art world , Paul is no stranger to lavish spending , '' the magazine said , noting that he does n't stop at paint on canvas but also spends big on art you can eat . 
`` He recently bid $ 30,000 at a Paris charity auction for a dinner cooked by six of the world 's great chefs , but the final party cost closer to $ 100,000 . '' 
-LRB- Mr. Paul says it was n't that high . -RRB- 
The comptroller 's office eventually extended the deadline to six months but broadened its demands , ordering that the `` book value of the collection -LCB- be -RCB- reduced to zero . '' 
The state obliquely noted that unsafe banking practices are grounds for removing an officer or director and closed with the admonition to Mr. Paul : `` Govern yourself accordingly . '' 
He explains that he was `` merely storing the paintings at home -- with some display -- because of the special dehumidified environment '' required for their safekeeping , until CenTrust 's new building was ready for them . 
He owns 43 % of CenTrust 's shares . 
David Tunick , the president of David Tunick Inc. , a New York gallery , says scholars question the authenticity of the Rubens . 
It may have been painted instead by a Rubens associate . 
`` It sounds like with the Rubens he got absolutely taken to the cleaners . '' 
`` It 's not beyond credibility the Rubens will someday be worth $ 12 million , but whether it could be sold for that amount tomorrow remains to be seen . '' 
`` I 'm forever dumbfounded by what I see making these high prices . '' 
Dealers contemptuous of the purchase price , he says , were themselves interested in buying the Rubens but lost out . 
`` Most of them were n't even born the last time the painting was displayed publicly , '' he says . 
Salomon Brothers Inc. , the investment-banking firm , in its annual tally of investment returns , reported that old masters appreciated 51 % in the year ended June 1 , the greatest return of any of 13 assets it tracked . 
-LRB- Impressionist and modern paintings , not tracked by Salomon , are ranked even higher at 74 % by Sotheby 's . -RRB- 
The percentages omit from consideration the many paintings that go begging at auction . 
Art indexes track winners , not losers . 
It 's not that there are n't any bids , but the bids do n't meet the minimum `` reserve '' prices set by the sellers . 
`` They went up 51 % last year , and they 'll do it again this year , '' he declares . 
`` They were a sleeper . 
Everybody was out buying Monets . '' 
Mr. Paul claims to have sold three paintings , at more than a 10 % profit . 
That is n't 51 % , and the claim is n't documented . 
Mr. Paul says he had not one but four advisers and that he never bid impulsively . 
After all , he had the counsel of `` curators from the most reputable museums in the world . '' 
`` After a few years , you can argue there has been natural appreciation , '' says Susan Theran , the publisher of Leonard 's Annual Price Index of Art Auctions . But quick turnover in artwork is `` like pawning your jewelry -- you end up with 50 % . 
People hold out and try to get a bargain . '' 
Mr. Wachter says Mr. Paul was a quick study who worked intensely and bought the best pictures available at the moment . 
`` On occasion , he paid a high price , '' Mr. Wachter concedes , but he says those who bid less and dropped out were dealers who would then have marked up the paintings to resell them at a profit to collectors . 
Sotheby 's , she says , is `` wearing both hats . '' 
`` Estimates are based on the previous price of similar works sold at auction and current market conditions , and are not affected by any knowledge of who the potential buyer could be . '' 
Frequently , clients express interest in paintings but do n't end up bidding , she adds , `` so we do n't know who the potential buyer will be . '' 
`` I tried to steal the picture -- to buy it attractively -- and -LCB- Sotheby 's -RCB- would n't do it . 
They were protecting his interests . '' 
Mr. Paul has been characterized as `` the Great Gatsby or something , '' complains Karen E. Brinkman , an executive vice president of CenTrust . 
The media , she says , have distorted his personal life . 
`` I do n't think I have a life style that is , frankly , so flamboyant , '' he says . 
The offices are done in hardwood and oriental rugs , leatherbound books and , of course , a $ 12 million Rubens . 
Just say the offices are tastefully appointed , '' he says . 
All of the former board 's members were CPAs , provoking conflict-of-interest criticism because they were writing rules while handling clients ' books at the same time . 
In the late 1960s some CPAs failed to correct such abuses as clients picking permissive rules that hyped earnings and stock prices . 
On Dec. 13 , 1973 , it issued its first rule ; it required companies to disclose foreign currency translations in U.S. dollars . 
; it required companies to disclose foreign currency translations in U.S. dollars . 
The FASB since then has issued 102 rules , and some still rile industry . 
The conversion increased total equity capital by about $ 38.5 million to a total of $ 156.8 million . 
Mervin Lung remains chairman and chief executive officer . 
The latest earnings reflect an increase of about 5.5 million in common shares outstanding . 
Revenue rose 3 % to $ 1.52 billion from $ 1.48 billion . 
The No. 1 domestic aluminum producer , Aluminum Co. of America , Friday said its earnings fell 3.2 % to $ 219 million , or $ 2.46 a share . 
Analysts on average had been expecting about $ 2.70 for Alcoa and $ 1 for Alcan . 
Much of the price decline has been blamed on a slowing economy and the third quarter is typically the industry 's slowest period . 
He said shipments are continuing at a `` healthy '' pace and the company has no excess inventory . 
Aluminum shipments of 329,600 metric tons were nearly equal to the year-earlier period , the company said . 
Weakening corporate earnings , they say , are no prescription for a bull market . 
He suspects that Friday 's market decline may have a second leg , perhaps a 10 % to 15 % drop later on . 
Before the 1987 crash , the P\/E was more than 20 . 
Our view is that we may see a profit decline . '' 
Some think investors should sell into rallies . 
The market `` is going to wind down , '' says Gerald W. Perritt , a Chicago money manager . 
`` Things are a little less overpriced '' after Friday 's jolt in the market . He expects stocks to decline an additional 5 % to 30 % , with the Dow perhaps bottoming out between 2000 and 2100 `` between now and June . '' 
He expects stocks to decline an additional 5 % to 30 % , with the Dow perhaps bottoming out between 2000 and 2100 `` between now and June . '' 
He found 85 still overvalued and 15 fairly valued . 
`` I 've been two-thirds in cash since July , and I continue to think that having a defensive position is appropriate , '' he says . 
Companies that piled on debt in leveraged buy-outs during the past two years `` will continue to surface as business problems . '' 
Fredric Russell , a money manager in Tulsa , Okla. , says Friday 's cave-in `` is going to have more of a permanent impact on the psyche of many investors than Wall Street would want to admit . '' 
`` I still think we will have a 3000 Dow , whether it 's six months or 12 months from now I do n't know , '' says David Dreman , managing partner of Dreman Value Management in New York . 
`` We 're doing a little buying '' in some stocks `` that have really been smashed down . '' 
Yesterday , Goldman Sachs , Merrill Lynch and Dean Witter all increased the proportion of assets they recommend investors commit to stocks . 
Dean Witter now recommends 85 % , Goldman 65 % and Merrill Lynch 50 % . 
`` It was a healthy cleansing , '' says Michael Holland , who runs Salomon Brothers Asset Management in New York . 
`` I do n't see this as a bear market at all . 
It 's a recognition that there was much too much fluff in the LBO market . '' 
`` It was an overreaction to an event -LCB- the failure of a management and union group to get bank financing for a takeover of UAL -RCB- that does n't mean that much to lots of stocks . '' 
Newspapers are full of headlines about companies defaulting on their debts and banks writing off real estate loans . That hurts investors ' confidence in the economy and stocks . 
That hurts investors ' confidence in the economy and stocks . 
`` Disappointing profits are likely to get worse in the next two quarters , '' says Mary Farrell , a market strategist at PaineWebber . 
Companies with steady earnings growth could do well , she says , while others with high debt or poor earnings could see their shares decline far more than 10 % . 
The chains include Bloomingdale 's , owned by Campeau Corp. , Toronto ; Saks Fifth Avenue and Marshall Field 's , owned by B.A.T Industries PLC , London ; and B. Altman & Co. and Sakowitz Inc. , owned by Hooker Corp. , which is now being managed by a court-appointed provisional liquidator . 
`` Investors are n't going to be throwing money at any of the proposed LBOs , but doing deals on the basis of ridiculous assumptions never made sense , either . '' 
Those days are over now , he believes . 
Bankers believed in the greater-fool theory that says somebody else is always willing to pay more . 
This is no longer true today . '' 
To make an LBO work , now we are going to need more than just junk bonds . 
Not only could the Wall Street gyrations damp Christmas sales if consumers lose confidence in the economy , but potential junk-bond buyers are sure to demand even stronger covenants and greater management equity participation . 
`` It 's called bad money driving out good money , '' said one retailing observer . 
`` Institutions that usually buy retail paper have to be more concerned . '' 
`` Retailers who had good track records of producing profits will have a better chance to buy back their companies . '' 
Potential bondholders will either look for greater equity participation on behalf of management , or insist the equity component of the deals be substantially greater than in the past . 
The judge held that the combination of colors used for the Sony products is distinctive and subject to protection under New York state law , rather than federal law . 
The court left open whether FERC could reimpose a new deadline later . 
After the payment , the Cleveland company owes $ 57 million on the loan . 
Certain details of the restructured facilities remain to be negotiated . 
The agreement is subject to completion of a definitive amendment and appropriate approvals . 
Mr. Kossuth was vice president and director , corporate finance , of Nesbitt Thomson Deacon Inc. , a Toronto investment dealer . 
`` This city already has too many tourists , and it ca n't hold them all , '' says Pierluigi Beggiato , the president of the Venice hoteliers association . 
`` What do we want casinos for when we have n't got anything in the shops ? '' one housewife asked . 
According to the Middle East Economic Survey , the North African nation is holding talks with Italy for adding a fourth pipe to a section of the Trans-Mediterranean pipeline , expanding capacity by up to six billion cubic meters a year from 12.5 billion . 
Editor Hasse Olsson said plans had called for 7,000 copies of the monthly Are Paev -LRB- Business Paper -RRB- to be sold at newsstands and an additional 3,000 promotion issues to be sent by direct mail . 
He said 13,000 more copies were sent to Estonia because of strong sales . 
The amount is equal to about 30 years earnings for the average peasant , who makes $ 145 a year ... . 
In yesterday 's edition , it was incorrectly included with a list of New York chains up for sale . 
South Korean consumers are expected to buy almost 500,000 passenger cars this year , up 60 % from 1988 . 
Demand is so strong that all of the domestic makers -- Hyundai , Kia Motors Corp. , Daewoo Motor Co. and even upstart SsangYong Motor Co. -- plan to build more factories . 
Industry analysts predict that by 1995 , South Korea will be building three million cars a year -- about half of that for export . 
Currently only one in 38 South Koreans owns a car , up from one in 200 a decade ago . 
`` In the year 2000 it will be one car per family . 
At that point domestic sales will slow down , '' says Kim Yoon Kwon , director of marketing for Daewoo Motor . 
: South Koreans suddenly have a lot more money . 
`` We never thought we 'd own a car , '' says Kwang Ok Kyong , who just bought a Daewoo LeMans on a five-year loan . 
SsangYong began making variations of the Jeep-like `` Korando '' vehicle . 
The most popular style is the stretched `` Family , '' which resembles a Ford Bronco or Chevy Blazer . 
; a Family can cost over $ 25,000 . 
It sees sales rising 45 % to 26,000 units next year . 
Its advantage has been the peppy little Pride , sold as the Ford Festiva in the U.S. . 
At 3.8 million won , or $ 5,700 , the econobox is the lowest-priced car in South Korea . 
Loans for as long as five years make the cars very accessible , with monthly payments as low as 80,000 won , or $ 120 . 
Shipments of its Lemans to GM 's Pontiac division are off about 65 % from a year ago , versus a 44 % decline for Hyundai and an 18 % increase for Kia . 
Even giant Samsung Group is rumored in the Korean press to be considering getting into the auto-making business ; a company spokesman had no comment . 
; a company spokesman had no comment . 
Both posts had been vacant . 
Much of the money was switched into the firm 's money market funds . 
Outflows since the close of trading Friday remain below one-third their level of two years ago , Fidelity said . 
This time , `` We do n't have that at all . '' 
As a group , their cash position of 10.2 % of assets in August -- the latest figure available -- is 14 % higher than two years earlier . 
Many fund managers have boosted their cash levels in recent weeks . 
Vanguard Group Inc. saw heavy exchanges from stock funds into money market funds after the telephone lines opened at 8:30 a.m . 
`` In the first hour , the real nervous folks came along , '' a spokesman said . 
Most of that increase came in the first hour after the phone lines opened at 8 a.m . 
Because mutual fund trades do n't take effect until the market close -- in this case , at 4 p.m. -- these shareholders effectively stayed put . 
This avoids knocking down prices further . 
The $ 1.1 billion T. Rowe Price High Yield Fund was among the funds that borrowed during the Campeau crisis , says George J. Collins , president of T. Rowe Price Associates Inc . 
When the market stabilized , he added , the firm sold the bonds and quickly paid the loans back . 
Central 's assets are $ 240 million . 
In September 1971 California officials seized `` bootlegged '' lenses -- made by unlicensed companies -- after some showed traces of bacteria . 
In October doctors were debating the product 's safety , some claiming it caused infections . 
The product overcame the bad publicity and kept evolving . 
In 1983 `` extended wear '' versions , designed to be worn for 30 days at a time , wree offered . 
Eighteen months ago a `` disposable '' seven-day model bowed ; a year 's supply costs about $ 500 . 
As in other jittery times , many small businesses expect a particularly rough time raising funds as investors shun risky deals , seeking safety in bigger companies . 
`` The more variables that indicate risk , the more the investor is going to drive a hard bargain . '' 
At the time , its shares were selling above their initial offering price of $ 19 , and bankers believed Staples would sell new stock without a hitch . 
`` We have capital requirements , '' says Mr. Linsert , `` so we have to go ahead '' with a planned $ 1.5 billion private placement . 
Unless the market goes right back up , he says , `` it may take us six to nine months to find the money , instead of three . '' 
Hand-holding is becoming an investment-banking job requirement . 
Officers of the company , a health-care concern , `` were very discouraged on Friday and felt they should n't go public ; we felt they should , '' says Sanford Robertson , partner in the banking concern . 
; we felt they should , '' says Sanford Robertson , partner in the banking concern . 
Yesterday , when similar securities rebounded , it bumped the valuation up again . 
`` We were just beginning to look at the increase in IPOs , seeing the light at the end of the tunnel , '' says Frank Kline Jr. , partner in Lambda Funds , a Beverly Hills , Calif. , venture capital concern . 
He calculates that the recent market slide translated into a 5 % to 7 % reduction in IPO proceeds to companies . 
Exabyte Corp. had been planning to sell 10 % of its stock this week in an IPO that would raise up to $ 28.5 million . 
Debt-free and profitable , the Boulder , Colo. , computer-products concern could borrow funds if it decides against an IPO now , he says . 
`` It 's a wait-and-see situation right now , '' says Terry McGowan , president . 
Sierra Tucson Cos. , a Tucson , Ariz. , operator of addiction-treatment centers , has a planned doubling of capacity riding on an IPO scheduled for next week . 
If it does n't , he says , the company would have to change its expansion timetable . 
In a sagging market , the Federal Reserve System `` might flood the market with funds , and that should bring interest rates down , '' says Leonard T. Anctil , vice president of the Bank of New England , Boston . 
For small companies , he says , interest rates are far more important than what happens on stock exchanges . 
Partly because the 1987 market crash made it harder for them to find financing , many high-technology concerns have made such alliances recently . 
Some even see a silver lining in the dark clouds . 
Alan Wells , president of Bollinger , Wells , Lett & Co. , a New York merger specialist , thinks panicky investors may lose their enthusiasm for leveraged buy-out and giant takeover deals . 
This will add to the appeal of small business , he says , where investors often have a degree of influence . 
The company said its real estate portfolio is `` highly leveraged , '' while about two-thirds of its investments are n't income-producing . 
A year earlier , the company had a loss of $ 10.8 million , or $ 3.04 a share , on revenue of $ 10.8 million . 
In the previous year , it had a loss of $ 22.5 million , or $ 6.52 a share , on revenue of $ 41.1 million . 
Book value per share , which is based on investments at cost , was a negative $ 6.69 a share . 
The latest quarter included a gain of 11 cents a share as a partial reversal of the recall charge , because the reserve established last year exceeded the actual recall costs . 
The group had an operating profit of $ 65 million , against a loss of $ 13 million a year earlier . 
Sales rose 2.9 % to $ 5.42 billion , from $ 5.27 billion . 
It implies that the British Empire was rooted in its subjects ' minds , manners and morals , and argues , tacitly , that its self-destructive flaws were embodied in the defensive snobbery , willful blindness , role-playing and especially the locutions of its domestic servants . 
Stevens 's dutiful conflation of the public and private realms -- like his beloved master 's -- destroys all it was designed to preserve . 
Such armor crushes the soldier . 
The mask cuts to the quick . 
It is the very lack of obvious drama or spectacle that sets the beauty of our land apart . 
What is pertinent is the calmness of that beauty , its sense of restraint . 
It is as though the land knows of its own beauty , of its own greatness , and feels no need to shout it . 
His answer is one `` possessed of a dignity in keeping with his position . '' 
Such dignity `` has to do crucially with a butler 's ability not to abandon the professional being he inhabits . '' 
He `` will not be shaken out by external events , however surprising , alarming or vexing ... . 
Continentals are unable to be butlers because they are as a breed incapable of the emotional restraint which only the English race are capable of . '' 
; one 's pantry is `` not unlike general 's headquarters during a battle . '' 
You see , I know my father would have wished me to carry on just now . '' 
With great aplomb he considers not only filial devotion and -LRB- utterly repressed -RRB- sexual love , but British anti-Semitism , the gentry 's impatience with democracy and support of Hitler , and the moral problematics of loyalty : `` It is , in practice , simply not possible to adopt such a critical attitude towards an employer and at the same time provide good service ... . 
I will hereafter devote myself to serving him . ' This is loyalty intelligently bestowed . '' ` This employer embodies all that I find noble and admirable . 
I will hereafter devote myself to serving him . 
' This is loyalty intelligently bestowed . '' 
I trusted in his lordship 's wisdom ... . 
I ca n't even say I made my own mistakes . 
Really -- one has to ask oneself -- what dignity is there in that ? '' 
Aer Rianta , the Irish airport authority , could build a cargo terminal in the Soviet Union . 
Aeroflot could lease some of its cargo planes to Aer Lingus , through GPA , for a joint-venture cargo airline . 
The Irish-Soviet aviation connection is alive and well here at Shannon Airport . 
GPA is indeed talking about leasing Western planes to Aeroflot and even about buying Soviet-built Tupolev 204s . 
Aer Lingus is in discussions with the Soviet carrier about a cargo venture and other possibilities . 
Aer Rianta already has so many ventures with Aeroflot that its chief executive is studying Russian . 
`` They look the same . 
They 're very friendly . '' 
`` We have to study their experience very well , '' he says . 
`` We must find any way to get business . '' 
An apartment complex down the road is the crew-rest and staging area for more than 130 Aeroflot pilots and flight attendants . 
Tankers from the Latvian port of Ventspils each year unload 25 million gallons of fuel into a special tank farm at the airport . 
What Aeroflot does n't pour into its own gas-guzzling Ilyushins is bartered to the airport authority , which resells it to 11 Western carriers including Air France , Trans World Airlines and Pakistan International Airlines . 
Last year , the Irish airport authority , in a joint venture with Aeroflot , opened four hard-currency duty-free shops at Moscow 's Sheremetyevo Airport . 
Aer Rianta now manages duty-free sales on all Aeroflot international flights out of Moscow . 
Duty-free shops in Leningrad 's Pulkova Airport opened in July , and hard-currency shops in Leningrad hotels and on the Soviet-Finnish frontier are coming soon . 
Thanks to a new air-traffic agreement and the ability of Irish travel agents to issue Aeroflot tickets , tourists here are taking advantage of Aeroflot 's reasonable prices to board flights in Shannon for holidays in Havana , Kingston and Mexico City . 
The round-trip fare to Havana is 410 Irish punts -LRB- $ 578 -RRB- . 
Jamaica costs 504 punts . 
When it opened in 1939 , Shannon was the first landfall in Europe for thirsty airplanes flying from North America . 
Advances in aircraft fuel efficiency over the years made a Shannon stop unnecessary for most Western air fleets , but Aeroflot still flies inefficient Ilyushins that ca n't make it from Moscow to Managua on one hop . 
The latest figures compare with July 's 4.5 % month-to-month rise and 11.3 % year-to-year fall . 
An ebullient Kenneth Iverson , Nucor 's chairman , says the company 's plant eventually will make a ton of steel in 1.5 man hours , compared with four to six man hours at a conventional mill . 
`` Everyone in the world is watching us very closely . '' 
Already , USX Corp. and Armco Inc. are studying Nucor 's technology to see if they can adopt it . 
Says the chief executive officer of a major Midwest steel company : `` It 's damn worrisome . '' 
New , efficient and sophisticated processes make it easier for smaller , less cash-rich companies to make steel at a fraction of what Big Steel paid decades ago . 
Eager engineers espouse direct-steelmaking and direct casting , which by the end of the 1990s will enable production without coke ovens and blast furnaces . 
Those massive structures , while posing cost and environmental headaches , effectively locked out all but deep-pocketed giants from steelmaking . 
`` It 's no longer enough to beat the guy down the street . 
You have to beat everyone around the world , '' says Mr. Dennis . 
He wants to see steelmakers more involved in computers and artificial intelligence . 
`` They 've got too much invested in the old stuff and they ca n't get their workers to be flexible . '' 
Nucor 's plant in Crawfordsville , Ind. , ultimately will produce only one million tons annually , a drop in the 40-million-ton-a-year flat-rolled steel bucket , and it will be years before such plants can compete in the high-profit market . 
Because all operations are connected , one equipment failure forces a complete plant shutdown . 
On some days , the Nucor plant does n't produce anything . 
In the past , says Armco 's chief economist John Corey , steelmakers made a product and set it out on the loading dock . 
`` We said : ` We 've got a product : if you want it , you can buy it , ' '' he says , adding : `` Now we 're figuring out what people need , and are going back to make it . '' 
, ' '' he says , adding : `` Now we 're figuring out what people need , and are going back to make it . '' 
After letting aluminum-makers take the recycling lead , a group of the nation 's largest steelmakers started a recycling institute to promote steel cans to an environmentally conscious nation . 
Other steelmakers envision steel roofs covering suburbia . 
USX is funneling drilling pipe to steel-hungry Soviet Union . 
This year , the nation 's largest steelmaker reactivated its overseas sales operation . 
Almost all capital-improvement programs announced by major steelmakers within the past year involve building electrogalvanizing lines , used to produce steel for such products as household appliances and car doors . 
`` It 's like everyone climbing out of the QE II and getting into a lifeboat , '' says John Jacobson , an analyst with AUS Consultants . 
`` After a while , someone has to go over the side . '' 
Although he does n't expect any bankruptcies , he does see more plants being sold or closed . 
`` Unless there is an enormous rate of economic growth or a further drop in the dollar , it 's unlikely that consumption of U.S. produced steel will grow sufficiently to offset the growth of minimills . '' 
Japanese and European steelmakers , which have led the recent technology developments , are anxiously awaiting the lifting of trade restraints in 1992 . 
A Taiwanese steelmaker recently announced plans to build a Nucor-like plant . 
`` They 're dead wrong . '' 
That may be the largest patent award ever , but it is well below the $ 12 billion Polaroid seeks . 
`` It 's like panning for gold outside of Grand Central Station . 
You might find something , but the chances are low , '' said Michael Ellman , an analyst at Wertheim Schroder & Co . 
If so , the damages could be tripled . 
`` Carr told Kodak on many occasions to avoid various features because of Polaroid 's patent positions , '' and Kodak followed his advice in every instance , Mr. Crary said . 
It 's difficult to be that consistently wrong . '' 
Polaroid claims it could have manufactured and sold all the instant cameras and film sold by Kodak if Kodak had n't entered the market . 
Kodak hired Robert Buzzell and Polaroid brought in Robert J. Dolan . 
That compared with the year-earlier $ 1.25 billion , or $ 2.10 a share -- which was inflated by a 15-cents-a-share gain from the sale of some MCI Communications Corp. stock and by an unspecified amount from a payment by Fujitsu Ltd. relating to a software dispute . 
The computer giant , whose U.S. results have been dismal for years , noted that revenue rose again in the U.S. in the third quarter , following an increase in the second period . 
The company said in a statement that `` demand for IBM products and services continues to be good world-wide . 
We do not see anything in the fundamentals of our business that would cause us to change our strategy of investing for profitable growth . '' 
`` I think 1990 will be another mediocre year , '' said Steve Milunovich of First Boston . 
He said IBM has priced its leases aggressively , thinking that would help win business . But he said IBM would have won the business anyway as a sale to a third party that would have then leased the equipment to the customer . 
He said IBM has not only hurt its short-term revenue outlook but has also been losing money on its leases . 
Revenue increased 6.5 % to $ 42.25 billion from $ 39.68 billion . 
So far , analysts have said they are looking for $ 3.30 to $ 3.35 a share . 
After today 's announcement , that range could increase to $ 3.35 to $ 3.40 a share . 
PepsiCo said its soft-drink prices were about 2 % higher in the quarter . 
International soft-drink volume was up about 6 % . 
Excluding the British snack-food business acquired in July , snack-food international tonnage jumped 40 % , with sales strong in Spain , Mexico and Brazil . 
Same-store sales for Pizza Hut rose about 13 % , while Taco Bell 's increased 22 % , as the chain continues to benefit from its price-value strategy . 
Taco Bell has turned around declining customer counts by permanently lowering the price of its tacos . 
Same store-sales for Kentucky Fried Chicken , which has struggled with increased competition in the fast-food chicken market and a lack of new products , rose only 1 % . 
Hydro-Quebec said Maine regulators ' refusal to approve the contract earlier this year halted work on transmission lines and stopped negotiations for resale of electricity carried through Maine to other utilities . 
`` It would now be physically impossible to begin deliveries in 1992 , '' a Hydro-Quebec official said . 
`` We wo n't sign any new contracts -LCB- with deliveries -RCB- beginning earlier than 2000 , '' the Hydro-Quebec official said . 
He said Hydro-Quebec already has some `` customers in mind '' for the power that was to be delivered to Maine . 
`` Nothing has happened since we signed the contract to undermine our conviction that Hydro-Quebec was the lowest-cost , most environmentally acceptable choice for meeting a part of our customers ' energy needs through the year 2020 , '' said Central Maine senior vice president Donald F. Kelly . 
That may just be the nature of these highly leveraged little creatures . '' 
They then had no choice in many cases but to sell the contracts at prevailing prices -- in most cases at a substantial loss . 
Exchange officials reasoned that they would n't have been able to make such a rotation with the time remaining Friday afternoon , and with the stock-index futures on the verge of closing for a second and final time , the CBOE reasoned that its best course was to remain closed . 
Fosset so far is the only member of a financial exchange to be forced to be taken over by another firm as a result of Friday 's rout . 
`` A package of credit support was put together -- including the assets of Steve and his firm . '' 
`` It was their business decision , '' the official said . 
`` It was an extraordinary situation that needed extraordinary steps , '' said Paul Stevens , OCC president and chief operating officer . 
With a jazz-piano tape playing softly in the background , the soothing hands of Sabina Vidunas begin to work on Ms. Foster 's neck and shoulders . 
`` It 's like an oasis in this room , '' Ms. Foster purrs . 
In some companies middle managers sneak massage therapists into the office , fearful that upper-level executives wo n't approve . 
`` When you leave the room after your massage , people say you look like you 're glowing . '' 
Three years ago , the Internal Revenue Service 's office in San Jose , Calif. , opened its doors to on-site massage . And even though employees paid the bill , taxpayers grumbled . 
`` Now we 're looking for a room with thicker walls , '' Ms. Banks says . 
Some masseurs have tried to get around this by calling themselves `` bodyworkers '' and describing their office visits as `` reinvigoration breaks . '' 
`` You build up a lot of tension working at a terminal all day , '' he says . 
Mr. Soule says his only beef was that the massages were being given in a company conference room ; the department 's supervised health facility would have been fine . 
; the department 's supervised health facility would have been fine . 
`` In my view , -LCB- massages -RCB- should be managed with an appropriate mixture of males and females around , '' he says . 
Russell Borner of Park Ridge , N.J. , says he has been working for the past year at a huge chemical and manufacturing concern in New York -- unbeknownst to the company 's executives . 
His massage chair is kept in a closet , and a secretary escorts him past security . 
Managers , he contends , `` are afraid how they 're going to look in the eyes of their peers . 
My attitude is : Let 's come out of the closet . '' 
Elisa Byler , a St. Louis masseuse , won over officials at Emerson Electric Co. , a maker of electrical and electronic equipment , by providing documents and other articles trumpeting the therapeutic benefits of massage . 
`` If I go in there as I normally dress , they 'd ask , ` Who is this hippie ? ' '' 
To help do this , Mr. Palmer developed a portable massage chair three years ago that he hopes will bring `` structured touching '' into mainstream America . 
`` The idea is to keep the clothes on and to keep people seated . 
The chair is a way to package massage . '' 
Customers lean forward , rest their knees on side supports and bury their face in padding on the back of the chair . 
-LRB- Ms. Ohlman , the Grand Rapids masseuse , says she has heard the odd-looking contraption compared to something out of the Spanish Inquisition . -RRB- 
Three minutes into the massage , the man curled up , began shaking and turned red . 
Paramedics were called . 
The next woman was older , and I was afraid to touch her . 
Linda Aldridge , who does full-body work in Pittsburgh , says that while on-site massage is better than nothing , tired workers should realize it is only the tip of the iceberg . 
`` There 's nothing like skin to skin . 
While some commercial lending has resumed , international lenders remain nervous about China 's economic troubles and foreign debt -- $ 40 billion at the end of 1988 . 
Many bankers view property-sector loans as particularly risky . 
The company owes $ 11 million to the Shui On Group , the project 's Hong Kong contractor , and a significant , though unspecified , amount in legal fees to Coudert Brothers , a U.S. law firm , the sources say . 
When the loan agreement was announced , it was hailed as one of the first Western-style financing transactions ever used in China . 
Unlike most loans to China , there was no Chinese guarantor . 
The loan was to have matured in just two to three years , as soon as construction was completed . 
Shoppers , many of whom operate small businesses , pay annual membership fees , which provide an income base for the stores . 
In the year ended Jan. 31 , Pace rang up profit of $ 9.4 million , or 72 cents a share , after a tax-loss carry-forward , on sales of $ 1.3 billion , and analysts expect its results to continue to improve . 
`` Even if you look at it as a turnaround situation , it 's expensive , '' said Wayne Hood of Prudential-Bache Securities Inc . 
`` In my opinion , you would only pay that kind of price if you were getting a premier player in the industry . '' 
`` If K mart ca n't get its act together in discounting , why is it spending time worrying about other growing markets ? '' 
She said , `` I would say K mart 's number one job is to address its market-share loss -LCB- in discount stores -RCB- , which longer-term will lead to improved profit margins . 
At that point , perhaps diversification would be appropriate . '' 
Pace rose $ 2.625 to close at $ 22.125 a share in national over-the-counter trading . 
The companies said Pace would ill continue to operate under its present management . 
A minute later it soared 128 points , then zoomed back down 113 points , 69 below Friday 's close . 
`` It was like flying without a pilot in the front of the plane . '' 
The Quotrons were wrong . 
The prices of the individual stocks that make up the average were correct , Quotron said , but the average was wrong . 
At about 10:40 a.m. on the over-the-counter trading desk at a major brokerage firm , a veteran trader who buys and sells some of the most active stocks looked at a senior official and asked , `` What 's going on ? Is the market up or down ? '' 
When the market opened at 9:30 a.m. EST , a reporter for the Reuters newswire miscalculated the industrial average 's drop as a 4 % decline when it really was down 0.7 % . 
`` It was a case of human error , which we found almost immediately and corrected , '' a spokesman for Reuter in New York said . 
Dillon Read 's Ms. Stark said in early afternoon that she was still viewing prices and other data as subject to verification , and she said portfolio managers continued to question the numbers they saw on the screen . 
At the start of trading last Wednesday , the average appeared to plunge more than 200 points . Actually , it was down only a few points at the time . 
Actually , it was down only a few points at the time . 
She said Quotron switched to a backup system until the problems were corrected . 
`` The eyes of the world were watching us . 
He retains his current positions as chief strategic officer of AM International and president of AM Ventures . 
So does Mr. Friend and his law partner , Nick Nichols . 
Mr. Friend says he passed that along to his adversary , and soon they were talking about the ground rules under which Derr could keep its money and the plaintiffs could take a shot at Mr. Alexander . 
Mr. Friend says he agreed to strike Mr. Alexander above the belt . 
Ms. Parks and her mother indicated they want to `` catch him unawares from behind , '' he says . 
Mr. Alexander , for his part , insisted that the punchers ca n't assign their pummeling rights to anyone else , ca n't use a blunt instrument and ca n't take a running start . 
Mr. Friend says his side is `` dead serious . '' 
Although they do n't contemplate delivering any disabling blows , he says that Mr. Alexander will be asked to sign a release from liability , just in case . 
Since the crash , many futures traders have n't assumed large positions for fear that the S&P 500 market , with much of its customer order flow missing , would dry up if prices turned against them . 
Traders were shouting bids and offers a full five minutes before the start of trading at 8:30 am 
The market hovered near Friday 's closing price of 328.85 for about a half hour , moving several index points higher or lower in seconds , then broke higher and did n't look back . 
`` You could buy at the bid and sell at the offer and make a fortune , '' he marveled . 
Salomon Brothers was among the largest sellers of stock-index futures last week , traders said . 
No trading existed for the vast majority of junk bonds , securities industry officials said . 
On Friday , trading in practically every issue ground to a halt as potential buyers fled and brokerage firms were unwilling to provide bid and offer prices for most issues . 
`` Now , I feel maybe there 's a little bit of euphoria . '' 
Paul Asquith , associate professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology 's Sloan School of Management , citing a pattern of junk-bond default rates that are low in the early years after issuance and rise later , says , `` We 're now in a period where we 're starting to see defaults from the big issue years of 1984 to 1986 . '' 
`` There 's a whole bunch of stuff that 's money good and a whole bunch of stuff that 's not so good . '' 
Almost $ 8 billion of junk bonds that are considered untradeable include issues from SCI TV , Gillette Holdings -LRB- not related to Gillette Co. -RRB- , Interco , Seaman Furniture , Allied Stores , Federated Department Stores , National Gypsum , M.D.C. Holdings , Micropolis , Leaseway Transportation and Price Communications . 
`` It 's possible to have a 10 % default rate in one year , because we 're already seeing big problems in the midst of a pretty strong economy . 
I 'm certainly not comfortable saying we 've seen the bottom . '' 
Many issues `` bounced off the floor , '' Mr. Minella said , and benchmark junk issues `` recovered all of their losses '' from Friday and early yesterday . 
`` People will learn to be more circumspect . 
If they do good credit analysis , they will avoid the hand grenades . 
I think the market is in good shape . 
He said he might now sell his AMR stake , buy more shares , or make another offer at a lower price . 
After reaching an intraday high of $ 107.50 the day Mr. Trump disclosed his bid Oct. 5 , AMR 's stock had retreated as low as $ 97.75 last week . 
`` He 's done this thing where he 'll buy a little bit of a company and then trade out of it . 
He 's written this book , ` The Art of the Deal . ' 
Why does n't he just follow through on one of these things ? '' 
AMR had weighed a wide range of possible responses , from flat rejection to recapitalizations and leveraged buy-outs that might have included either employees , a friendlier buyer such as Texas billionaire Robert Bass , or both . 
Yesterday , Mr. Trump tried to put the blame for the collapse of the UAL deal on Congress , saying it was rushing through a bill to protect AMR executives . 
Ray Neidl of Dillon Read & Co. said Mr. Trump `` is stepping back and waiting for the dust to settle . 
I 'm sure he still wants AMR . '' 
`` I was never sure Donald Trump really wanted to take AMR , '' said John Mattis , a bond analyst with Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc . 
`` What happened with United was a gracious way for him to bow out . '' 
The first UAL deal unraveled after Citibank and Chase could n't raise $ 7.2 billion . 
Citibank and Chase had agreed to commit $ 3 billion , and said they were `` highly confident '' of raising another $ 4.2 billion . 
Officials familiar with the bank talks said the UAL buy-out group -- UAL pilots , management , and British Airways PLC -- is now willing to pay higher bank fees and interest , but is n't likely to boost its $ 965 million equity contribution . 
The group 's advisers want to make certain they have firm bank commitments the second time around . 
Los Angeles investor Marvin Davis , whose $ 275-a-share offer was rejected by UAL 's board , has n't shown signs of pursuing a $ 300-a-share back-up bid he made last month . 
If they were to insist on a low bid of , say $ 200 a share , the board might n't be able to obtain a higher offer from other bidders because banks might hesitate to finance a transaction the pilots oppose . 
That could cost him the chance to influence the outcome and perhaps join the winning bidder . 
