The new `` social choice '' fund will shun securities of companies linked to South Africa , nuclear power and in some cases , Northern Ireland . 
The bond fund will invest in high-grade or medium-grade bonds , mortgages or asset-backed securities , including as much as 15 % in foreign securities . 
Under two new features , participants will be able to transfer money from the new funds to other investment funds or , if their jobs are terminated , receive cash from the funds 
Solo woodwind players have to be creative 
Solo woodwind players have to be creative if they want to work a lot 
The oboist Heinz Holliger has taken a hard line about the problem : He commissions and splendidly interprets fearsome contemporary scores and does some conducting 
Today , the pixie-like clarinetist has mostly dropped the missionary work 
Just the thing for the Vivaldi-at-brunch set , the yuppie audience that has embraced New Age as its very own easy listening . 
He believes in what he plays 
Clad in his trademark black velvet suit , the soft-spoken clarinetist announced that his new album , `` Inner Voices , '' had just been released , that his family was in the front row 
Clad in his trademark black velvet suit , the soft-spoken clarinetist announced that his new album , `` Inner Voices , '' had just been released , that his family was in the front row , and that it was his mother 's birthday 
He launched into Saint-Saens 's `` The Swan '' from `` Carnival of the Animals , '' a favorite encore piece for cellists , with lovely , glossy tone and no bite . 
Then , as if to show that he could play fast as well , he offered the second movement from Saint-Saens 's Sonata for Clarinet , a whimsical , puckish tidbit that reflected the flip side of the Stoltzman personality 
Then , as if to show that he could play fast as well , he offered the second movement from Saint-Saens 's Sonata for Clarinet , a whimsical , puckish tidbit that reflected the flip side of the Stoltzman personality . 
Mr. Stoltzman tied the composer in by proclaiming him `` the great improviser of the 18th century 
Mr. Stoltzman tied the composer in by proclaiming him `` the great improviser of the 18th century , '' and then built on the image by joining with Mr. Douglas in some Bach two-part inventions , cleverly arranged for clarinet and bassoon by Mr. Douglas . 
Keeping the mood light , the two then chanted and chortled their way through some murderous polyrhythms 
And so it went through the first half : an ingeniously chosen potpourri of pieces , none longer than five minutes , none that would disturb or challenge a listener . 
Glamorous and pure-voiced as ever , Ms. Collins sang Joni Mitchell 's `` For Free '' -- about an encounter with a street-corner clarinetist , to which Mr. Stoltzman contributed a clarinet obligatto -- and Mr. Douglas 's lush setting of a Gaelic blessing , `` Deep Peace . '' 
It was all too mellow to be believed 
Was this why some of the audience departed before or during the second half ? 
Or was it 
Either way it was a pity 
Mr. Stoltzman must have worried that his audience might not be able to take it : He warned us in advance that `` New York Counterpoint '' lasts 11 1\/2 minutes . 
It was enjoyable to hear accomplished jazz without having to sit in a smoke-filled club 
Managers and presenters insist that chamber music concerts are a hard sell 
Managers and presenters insist that chamber music concerts are a hard sell , but can audiences really enjoy them 
It was not an unpleasant evening , certainly , thanks to the high level of performance , the compositional talents of Mr. Douglas , and the obvious sincerity with which Mr. Stoltzman chooses his selections . 
One of Ronald Reagan 's attributes as President was that he rarely gave his blessing to the claptrap that passes for `` consensus '' in various international institutions . 
In fact , he liberated the U.S. from one of the world 's most corrupt organizations -- UNESCO . 
Now UNESCO apologists are lobbying President Bush to renege on President Reagan 's decision to depart . 
The U.S. , along with Britain and Singapore , left the agency 
The personal antics of agency Director Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow drew much attention , such as when several of his top aides were uncovered as KGB plants and ejected from France 
The personal antics of agency Director Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow drew much attention 
The personal antics of agency Director Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow drew much attention , such as when several of his top aides were uncovered as KGB plants and ejected from France and when a mysterious office fire was set 
Mr. M'Bow was an extreme case 
Glasnost may be partly responsible 
Soviets remain in charge of education programs , a former head of an African military tribunal for executions is in charge of culture 
Free markets , free minds and free elections have an appeal that seems to get muddled 
This can have its purposes at times 
The researchers said they have isolated a plant gene that prevents the production of pollen . 
The gene thus can prevent a plant from fertilizing itself . 
Such so-called male-sterile plants can then be fertilized by pollen from another strain of the plant 
That 's 
They sow a row of male-fertile plants nearby 
The first hybrid corn seeds produced using this mechanical approach were introduced in the 1930s 
In China , a great number of workers are engaged in pulling out the male organs of rice plants using tweezers 
The sterilizing gene is expressed 
The sterilizing gene is expressed just before the pollen is about to develop 
At Plant Genetic Systems , researchers have isolated a pollen-inhibiting gene that can be inserted in a plant to confer male sterility . 
They attached a second gene , for herbicide resistance , to the pollen-inhibiting gene . 
Both genes are then inserted into a few greenhouse plants 
The laws of heredity dictate that half of the plants springing from these greenhouse-produced seeds will be male sterile and herbicide resistant 
He said that even though virtually all corn seeds currently planted are hybrids , the genetic approach will obviate the need for mechanical emasculation of anthers 
One technique developed by some of these companies involves a chemical spray supposed to kill only a plant 's pollen . 
But there have been problems with chemical sprays damaging plants ' female reproductive organs and concern for the toxicity of such chemical sprays to humans , animals and beneficial insects . 
That 's 
That 's because pollination , while easy in corn because the carrier is wind , is more complex and involves insects as carriers in crops such as cotton 
That 's because pollination , while easy in corn 
`` It 's one thing to say you can sterilize 
Mr. Robinson of Delta & Pine , the seed producer in Scott , Miss. , said Plant Genetic 's success in creating genetically engineered male steriles does n't automatically mean it would be simple to create hybrids in all crops . 
Unwilling to put up new money for New Zealand 
Barred by its budget law from making any new domestic bond issues , Wellington 's Debt Management Office had been casting abroad to raise the 3 billion New Zealand dollars -LRB- US$ 1.76 billion -RRB- to NZ$ 4 billion it needs to come up with by the end of its fiscal year next June 30 . 
Not only can they block Wellington from raising money in Japan 
`` I think it would be irresponsible 
Both sides are jealously guarding their turf 
The banks badly want to break into all aspects of the securities business . 
Nomura , the world 's biggest securities company largely by virtue of its protected home field , and Industrial Bank of Japan , Japan 's most innovative and aggressive bank in capital markets abroad , captain the opposing sides . 
Nomura started a credit-card venture with American Express Co. that allowed cardholders to use their Nomura securities accounts like a bank account , attracting the wrath of banks . 
`` Babies , kiddies , '' growls their manager -- a fellow named Earl Weaver , who , in a different time , handled four World Series teams and now handles the Gold Coast Suns . `` Old-time kiddies , '' he says . 
Now that the baseball season is officially over , you see , it 's time for a new season to begin 
Until the baby-faced heroes of today reclaim these ballparks for spring training , there is one more 
The league is the brainchild of Colorado real estate developer James Morley -- once a minor-leaguer himself -- who says he had the idea last January 
When he sent letters offering 1,250 retired major leaguers the chance of another season , 730 responded 
-LRB- Players have to be 35 or older , except for catchers , who are eligible at 32 
Others , just released from the majors , hope the senior league will be their bridge back into the big-time . 
But as they hurl fireballs that smolder rather than burn , and relive old duels in the sun , it 's clear that most are there to make their fans cheer again or recapture the camaraderie of seasons past or prove to themselves and their colleagues that they still have it -- or something close to it 
Mr. Broberg , who started with the now-defunct Washington Senators , says that when he left baseball in 1978 , he `` never looked back 
`` It does n't replace pitching in the majors 
`` It does n't replace pitching in the majors , but it proves to me that I would have been able to play 
These days he hustles to house-painting jobs in his Chevy pickup 
While sipping a beer after practice , he vividly recounts getting the Red Sox 's Carl Yastrzemski to pop out to end the 1975 World Series , and repeating the feat against the Yankees ' Roy White in 1976 
Worse , says baseball author Lawrence Ritter , `` Someone will get a heart attack 
Some of the game 's reigning philosophers dislike the idea of middle-aged men attempting a young man 's sport . 
-LRB- No one has worked out the players ' average age 
Some have been training for months ; others only recently left active status . 
`` I 'm not going to look stupid , '' vows former Pittsburgh Pirate second baseman Rennie Stennett , sweat dotting his brow 
But the ballplayers disagree . 
At the weatherbeaten Pompano Beach municipal stadium , Mr. Blair , the 45-year-old former Oriole , knows his power is n't what it used to be . 
He 's not thinking about home runs anymore , just base hits . 
At the weatherbeaten Pompano Beach municipal stadium , Mr. Blair , the 45-year-old former Oriole , knows his power is n't what it used to be . 
Even expect stolen bases , says the wiry and fit Mr. Campaneris : `` If you know how to slide , it 's no problem 
And do n't expect many complete games by pitchers -- perhaps three out of 288 , laughs Mr. Fingers , the former Oakland reliever . Expect `` tricky '' stuff from pitchers , says Mr. Weaver , the manager . Expect brushbacks but no beanballs , says Mr. McEnaney . Even expect stolen bases , says the wiry and fit Mr. Campaneris : `` If you know how to slide , it 's no problem , '' he says . 
`` I wo n't be throwing 90 mph 
Stuffing a wad of Red Man into his cheek , he admits the fastball he brought into the majors in 1955 has become a slowball . 
Hani Zayadi was appointed president and chief executive officer of this financially troubled department store chain , effective Nov. 15 , succeeding Frank Robertson , who is retiring early . 
Statistics Canada said service-industry output in August rose 0.4 % from July . 
Separately , Statistics Canada reported that its industrial-product price index dropped 0.2 % in September , its third consecutive monthly decline . 
People 's Savings Financial Corp. said it will buy back as much as 10 % of its 2.4 million shares outstanding 
Trade and Industry Secretary Nicholas Ridley told the House of Commons yesterday that he will relinquish the government 's so-called golden share in the company 
GM has been negotiating a friendly transaction with Jaguar that likely would involve joint ventures and an eventual stake of just under 30 % . 
The share price was languishing at about 400 pence 
Such a countermove could end Jaguar 's hopes for remaining independent and British-owned . 
`` It 's either going to be a shootout 
Another person close to the talks said , `` It is very hard to justify paying a silly price for Jaguar 
Jaguar officials in the U.S. noted that Ford , as Jaguar 's largest shareholder , now has the power to call for such a meeting . 
Jaguar 's own defenses against a hostile bid are weakened 
Ford officials in the U.S. declined to comment on the British government 's action or on any plans to call a special Jaguar shareholders meeting . 
Although GM has U.S. approval to buy up to 15 % of Jaguar 's stock , it has n't yet disclosed how many shares it now owns 
Jaguar was shocked by Mr. Ridley 's decision 
Jaguar was shocked by Mr. Ridley 's decision , because management had believed the government would n't lift the golden share without consulting the company first . 
The British government retained the single golden share 
He said he was giving up the golden share `` to clear the way 
Sales of new cars in Europe fell 4.2 % in September from a year earlier 
Tokyo stocks rebounded Tuesday from two consecutive daily losses in relatively active dealings . 
London shares also rose 
Advancing issues outnumbered decliners 542 to 362 
Small-lot buying targeted at incentive-backed issues pushed up the Nikkei . 
First , he said , domestic interest rates are likely to stay at higher levels 
Third , oil prices have n't declined 
Mitsubishi Estate ended the day at 2680 , up 150 . 
In London , prices finished at intraday peaks , comforted by a reassuring early performance on Wall Street and news that the British government will waive its `` golden share '' in auto maker Jaguar . 
But trading was very sketchy 
In Tokyo , the Nikkei index of 225 selected issues was up 132.00 points to 35549.44 . In London , prices finished at intraday peaks , comforted by a reassuring early performance on Wall Street and news that the British government will waive its `` golden share '' in auto maker Jaguar . 
Meanwhile , the broad-based Financial Times 100-share index added 30.4 points to end at 2142.6 
In London , prices finished at intraday peaks , comforted by a reassuring early performance on Wall Street and news that the British government will waive its `` golden share '' in auto maker Jaguar . 
The golden share was scheduled to expire at the beginning of 
But although the golden share has been waived , a hostile bidder for Jaguar would still have to alter the British concern 's articles of association which ban shareholdings of more than 15 % 
As the London trading session drew to a close , the market was still listening to the parliamentary debate on the economy 
On the Frankfurt Stock Exchange , share prices closed higher in fairly thin trading 
Contributing to the market 's reserved stance was the release later in the day of new data on the health of the U.S. economy , in the form of the U.S. index of leading indicators . 
Contributing to the market 's reserved stance was the release later in the day of new data on the health of the U.S. economy , in the form of the U.S. index of leading indicators . 
According to reports released by the two government agencies , domestic consumer and wholesale prices each rose by 0.2 % in October from the previous month . 
As a result , consumer prices for the first 10 months of 1989 surged by 5 % 
Typically , banks offer CD yields higher than those on Treasury bills , which are considered the safest short-term investments ; banks need a competitive edge to sell their products . 
But when market interest rates move up rapidly , increases in bank CD yields sometimes lag 
The CD trend runs counter to the direction of short-term interest rates at the Treasury bill auction Monday . 
Most yields on short-term jumbo CDs , those with denominations over $ 90,000 , also moved in the opposite direction of Treasury bill yields . The average six-month yield on a jumbo CD was at 7.90 % , down from 7.93 % , Banxquote said . For longer-term CDs , yields were up . The average two-year and five-year jumbos were up 0.02 of a percentage point to 7.91 % and 7.96 % , respectively . 
However , CDs sold through major broker-dealer networks were up slightly almost across the board . 
It is offered by the flagship banks of New York 's Manufacturers Hanover Corp. in the one-year maturity only . 
I had to reach back to French 101 
I was a last-minute -LRB- read interloping -RRB- attendee at a French journalism convention 
The man with the clipboard represented a halfhearted attempt to introduce a bit of les sportif into our itinerary . 
But as the French embody a Zen-like state of blase when it comes to athletics -LRB- try finding a Nautilus machine in Paris -RRB- , my fellow conventioners were having none of it 
But as the French embody a Zen-like state of blase 
Back in the U.S.A. this kind of chi-chi airborne activity wins heartwarmingly covetous responses . 
The first thing anybody will tell you about ballooning is that it requires zip in the way of athletic prowess , or even a measure of derring-do . 
They will also tell you that even if you hate heights , you can still balloon 
They will also tell you that even if you hate heights 
-LRB- I still say do n't look down . 
In between came lots of coffee drinking 
When it was n't my turn in the balloon I followed its progress from the `` chase car 
After long stretches of this attendant ground activity came 20 or so lovely minutes of drifting above the Vosges watching the silver mists rise off the river 
It 's hard not to feel that God 's in his heaven with this kind of bird's-eye view of the world 
See , the other rule of thumb about ballooning is that you ca n't steer . 
Most balloonists seldom go higher than 2,000 feet 
When the balloon is cruising along at a steady altitude there is little sense of motion 
Only when one is ascending -- or in our case descending a tad trop rapidement -- does one feel , well , airborne in a picnic basket 
`` Attention , '' yelled our pilot 
We scuttled along for a few feet 
Eventually we came to rest in a soggy patch of field where we had the exquisite pleasure of scrambling out of the basket into the mud 
Back in the chase car , we drove around some more , got stuck in a ditch , enlisted the aid of a local farmer to get out the trailer hitch and pull us out of the ditch . 
It was the most exercise we 'd had all morning 
This meant returning to the golf course , where we watched a few French duffers maul the first tee 
A whole morning of ballooning and I had been off the ground barely 30 minutes . 
As we streaked by a blase gendarme , I could n't resist rearing up on my soggy loafers and saluting 
Testifying before a House subcommittee , Mr. Mulford said that if the Treasury had n't intervened in foreign-exchange markets in September and early October to reduce the dollar 's value , the plunge in the stock market might have provoked a steep fall in the currency that might have `` unhinged financial markets 
Testifying before a House subcommittee , Mr. Mulford said that if the Treasury had n't intervened in foreign-exchange markets in September and early October to reduce the dollar 's value , the plunge in the stock market might have provoked a steep fall in the currency that might have `` unhinged financial markets . '' 
Rep. John LaFalce -LRB- D. , N.Y . -RRB- said Mr. Johnson refused to testify jointly with Mr. Mulford 
Rep. John LaFalce -LRB- D. , N.Y . -RRB- said Mr. Johnson refused to testify jointly with Mr. Mulford and instead asked to appear 
Mr. Mulford said reports of tension between the Treasury and Fed have been exaggerated , insisting that they involved `` nuances . '' 
`` The solution is stronger domestic growth -LCB- in Germany -RCB- , '' he said . 
But because the growth of the German economy has been stronger than expected , Mr. Mulford said , it 's difficult for the U.S. to argue that Germany ought to adopt more stimulative monetary and fiscal policies 
Germany 's trade surplus is largely with other European countries rather than with the U.S. , Mr. Mulford acknowledged . 
Germany 's trade surplus is largely with other European countries rather than with the U.S. , Mr. Mulford acknowledged . 
In the past year , one inside director resigned 
Some U.S. allies are complaining that President Bush is pushing conventional-arms talks too quickly , creating a risk that negotiators will make errors that could affect the security of Western Europe for years . 
Mr. Bush has called for an agreement by next September at the latest . 
For one thing , Pentagon officials , who asked not to be identified , worry that the U.S. will have a much tougher time persuading Europeans to keep some short-range nuclear weapons on their soil 
At the same time , they contend that a reduction of NATO forces under a treaty will increase the possibility of a conventional Soviet attack 
So far , no ally has complained openly , preserving the impression that NATO is in line with the Bush position that a quick agreement bringing Soviet conventional forces down to parity with NATO is the West 's top bargaining priority . 
But even though NATO negotiators have only 10 months left under the Bush timetable , they are still wrestling over such seemingly fundamental questions as `` What is a tank ? 
Oleg A. Grinevsky , the chief Soviet negotiator in the conventional-arms talks , argued that this would mean the Soviets would have to destroy some 1,800 tanks 
Oleg A. Grinevsky , the chief Soviet negotiator in the conventional-arms talks , argued that this would mean the Soviets would have to destroy some 1,800 tanks , while the U.S. would lose none 
The Soviets complicated the issue by offering to include light tanks , which are as light as 10 tons . Oleg A. Grinevsky , the chief Soviet negotiator in the conventional-arms talks , argued that this would mean the Soviets would have to destroy some 1,800 tanks , while the U.S. would lose none because it has no light tanks in Europe . 
France , Britain and Italy all have light tanks they would like to keep out of the talks . 
The Soviets insisted that aircraft be brought into the talks 
The Soviets insisted that aircraft be brought into the talks , then argued for exempting some 4,000 Russian planes 
The dispute over that issue , according to one U.S. official , is a `` potential treaty stopper 
Accounting problems raise more knotty issues . 
`` So what 
`` The bottom line is that if we can get that -LCB- Warsaw Pact -RCB- superiority brought down to parity , we ought to keep pressing ahead as quickly as possible 
The venture would be the latest in Coke 's rapid expansion of overseas investment . 
That 's 
That 's because when Coke looks to the Pacific area , it sees an economic and demographic gold mine 
In countries such as Taiwan , South Korea and Singapore , economies are growing , resulting in a rise in disposable income that consumers can use for soft drinks . 
A Coca-Cola spokesman said it is too early to say how the joint venture would be structured 
A Coca-Cola spokesman said it is too early to say how the joint venture would be structured , or how much the company would invest in the transaction . 
Coke has tended to increase its control 
In Singapore , per-capita consumption is about one-third that of the U.S. . 
Giovanni Agnelli , a limited partnership that is the master holding company for Fiat 's Agnelli family , owns approximately 75 % of the shares in Istituto Finanziario Industriale 
The company said Maria Sole Agnelli Teodorani , sister of Fiat Chairman Giovanni Agnelli , agreed to trade her shares in IFI for new ordinary shares in the limited partnership , which will give her control of 4.67 % of Giovanni Agnelli & Co . 
The Aga Khan owns 10 % of Ifint 's capital 
As a result of the transaction , which is expected to be approved at a shareholders meeting Nov. 24 , Giovanni Agnelli & Co. will control 79.18 % of IFI 's ordinary shares . 
The value of the two transactions was n't disclosed 
The move strengthens the existing links between the Agnellis and the Aga Khan , the head of the world 's Ismaili Moslems who is a longtime family friend and frequently goes sailing with Mr. Agnelli . 
Mr. Agnelli and the Aga Khan also have some business ties 
Mr. Agnelli and the Aga Khan also have some business ties , and a spokesman for the Agnelli company did n't rule out that the current agreement could lead to further collaboration . 
It unfortunately encourages others to engage in a highly dangerous and illegal activity that only a very few are doing now . 
Under the agreement with the House and Senate leaders , the minimum wage would rise from the current $ 3.35 an hour to $ 4.25 an hour by April 1991 . 
Employers could also pay a subminimum `` training wage '' for 90 days to new workers who are up to 19 years old 
Employers could also pay a subminimum `` training wage '' for 90 days to new workers who are up to 19 years old , and then for another 90 days 
White House aides said that although they made a small compromise on the length of a training wage , the final minimum-wage increase will meet the standards set by Mr. Bush 
Under the compromise , the $ 4.25 level would be reached nine months earlier 
Under the compromise , the $ 4.25 level would be reached nine months earlier , while the training subminimum would be shorter 
Democrats argued that the training wage was a way of allowing employers to pay less than the minimum wage 
In the Senate , Edward Kennedy -LRB- D. , Mass. -RRB- , chairman of the Labor Committee , and Pete Domenici , -LRB- R. , N.M . -RRB- ranking minority member of the Budget Committee , have been working on a compromise 
Rep. Austin Murphy -LRB- D. , Pa. -RRB- , chairman of the House labor standards subcommittee , said they might have done better 
Mr. Kennedy suggested Democrats `` yielded a great deal '' on the size of the increase 
The AFL-CIO , which previously opposed the administration 's subminimum idea , said the compromise has `` adequate safeguards , so the youth are not exploited and older workers are not displaced 
The AFL-CIO , which previously opposed the administration 's subminimum idea , said the compromise has `` adequate safeguards 
The AFL-CIO , which previously opposed the administration 's subminimum idea , said the compromise has `` adequate safeguards , so the youth are not exploited 
Capital requirements will be declining 
The price was n't disclosed 
Armstrong , which has faced a takeover threat from the Belzberg family of Canada since July , said that disposing of the carpet business would improve `` total financial performance . '' 
The move also would allow the company to concentrate on core businesses , which include ceramic tile , floor coverings and furniture . 
Recently it upgraded its plants 
The government 's primary economic-forecasting gauge rose a slight 0.2 % in September 
The small increase in the index of leading indicators , which had climbed 0.5 % in August but was unchanged in July , does lend support to the view that the economy has slowed noticeably . 
Although September 's weakness followed two strong months for home sales , the decline supports other indications that the drop in mortgage rates earlier this year has had only a limited beneficial effect on the housing market 
The September drop was the largest since a 19 % drop in January 1982 
Because the figures are based on a small sample , the department said it is 90 % confident only that new-home sales fell somewhere between 5 % and 23 % during the month 
Because the figures are based on a small sample , the department said it is 90 % confident only that new-home sales fell somewhere between 5 % and 23 % during the month . 
In another report yesterday , the Commerce Department said sales of new single-family houses plunged 14 % in September to an annual rate of 618,000 from 719,000 in August . The declines were particularly pronounced in the Northeast and in the South , where Hurricane Hugo was a factor . Although September 's weakness followed two strong months for home sales , the decline supports other indications that the drop in mortgage rates earlier this year has had only a limited beneficial effect on the housing market . The September drop was the largest since a 19 % drop in January 1982 , but monthly changes in this measure are even less reliable than those in other economic indicators . Because the figures are based on a small sample , the department said it is 90 % confident only that new-home sales fell somewhere between 5 % and 23 % during the month . The department also said it takes four months to establish a trend . So far this year , 534,000 newly built homes have been sold , down 4.5 % from the like months of 1988 . The index of leading indicators got a major boost in September from a surge in consumer expectations as measured by the University of Michigan . This measure had dropped sharply in August . The Commerce Department said that as a result of a new adjustment to the formula used to calculate the index , the influence of this component has been reduced . Of the 11 components to the index , only three others rose in September : the money supply , the length of the average work week and stock prices . Several components that track the health of the manufacturing sector of the economy turned down in September . These include new orders for manufactured consumer goods , lead times on vendor deliveries , orders for new plant and equipment , and backlogs of orders for durable goods . 
Although manufacturers often are quick to call for lower interest rates , 60 % of the executives said they would prefer that the Fed keep inflation-fighting as its top priority even if that means higher rates 
Although manufacturers often are quick to call for lower interest rates , 60 % of the executives said they would prefer that the Fed keep inflation-fighting as its top priority 
The average interest rate rose to 8.3875 % at Citicorp 's $ 50 million weekly auction of 91-day commercial paper , or corporate IOUs , from 8.337 % at last week 's sale . 
An imaginative novelist writing a thriller about amateur spy-chasing might invent a Clifford Stoll 
An imaginative novelist writing a thriller about amateur spy-chasing might invent a Clifford Stoll , but it 's unlikely . 
He is 37 , an astronomer with impressive credentials , and something of a genius at making computers do his bidding . 
He probably did n't penetrate any top-secret files 
Once his cuckoo 's egg was laid , he could enter Unix and become a `` super-user , '' with access to everything 
Mr. Stoll was scanning the heavens at the Keck observatory of the Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory in 1986 when his grant ran low 
Mr. Stoll suspected the intruder was one of those precocious students who has fun breaking into computers . 
He made a midnight requisition of all the printers he could lay hands on 
After discovering that the hacker had taken over the dormant account of a legitimate user named Joe Sventek , he rigged up an alarm system , including a portable beeper , to alert him when Sventek came on the line 
After discovering that the hacker had taken over the dormant account of a legitimate user named Joe Sventek , he rigged up an alarm system , including a portable beeper , to alert him 
When the hacker moved , Mr. Stoll moved too 
Sometimes , if the hacker seemed to be into a sensitive file , he would drag his keychain across the terminal to create static or slow the system down to frustrate his quarry 
The FBI initially showed little interest 
`` Seems to 
One of its international specialists , Steve White , took a quick interest in Mr. Stoll 's hunt 
One of its international specialists , Steve White , took a quick interest in Mr. Stoll 's hunt , ultimately tracing the hacker to West Germany . 
One of its international specialists , Steve White , took a quick interest in Mr. Stoll 's hunt , ultimately tracing the hacker to West Germany . The West Germans then took over and finally found Markus Hess . 
Mips Computer Systems Inc. today will unveil a new general-purpose computer that will compete with more expensive machines from companies such as Sun Microsystems Inc. and Digital Equipment Corp . 
The machine is part of an effort by Mips to establish itself as a supplier of computers , not just of integrated-circuit technology . 
The Control Data deal is a boon for Mips 
The Control Data deal is a boon for Mips because it gives the the five-year-old company one more ally 
`` They 're getting some major wins , '' she added . 
Sony Corp. , Tandem Computers Inc. and Digital Equipment have agreed to sell MIPS computers 
In a hearing before the House Ways and Means Committee , the General Accounting Office and the Congressional Budget Office , which both are arms of Congress , advised the new S&L bailout agency to abandon plans to raise temporary working capital through debt issued from an agency that would n't be counted on the federal budget . 
The borrowing to raise these funds would be paid off 
The new S&L law allows the RTC to issue notes for as much as 85 % of the value of the assets it holds . 
The new S&L bailout law allows $ 50 billion to be spent to sell or merge sick S&Ls and their assets 
The RTC will have to sell or merge hundreds of insolvent thrifts over the next three years . 
In the meantime , the agency must raise cash to maintain assets , such as real estate 
In the meantime , the agency must raise cash to maintain assets , such as real estate , until they can be sold . 
David Mullins , assistant secretary of the Treasury , said that the working capital is necessary to reduce the final costs of the bailout , by allowing the agency to sell savings and loans without their bad assets 
David Mullins , assistant secretary of the Treasury , said that the working capital is necessary to reduce the final costs of the bailout , by allowing the agency to sell savings and loans without their bad assets , then hold the assets 
He said it has n't yet been determined how the RTC will raise the cash 
He said it has n't yet been determined how the RTC will raise the cash , but the administration does n't want it to be included on the federal budget 
He said it has n't yet been determined how the RTC will raise the cash , but the administration does n't want it to be included on the federal budget , because it would `` distort '' the budget process by requiring either exemptions from Gramm-Rudman or big increases in the budget deficit . 
`` If working capital financing is not provided , '' he said , `` the RTC may have to slow -LCB- S&L sales -RCB- or dump acquired assets through fire sales 
Not a gripping question 
Not a gripping question , unless you 're the pastry chef of this city 's Chez Panisse restaurant 
The tattered black binder , bulging with 18 years ' worth of recipes held together by rubber bands , was in chef Lindsey Shere 's purse 
The Berkeley police do n't have any leads but doubt the crime was driven by a passion for sweets . 
Chez Panisse , whose founder , Alice Waters , is considered the inventor of the cooking style known as California cuisine and whose patrons make reservations a month in advance , has n't exactly subjected diners to vanilla ice cream because of the theft . 
Still , the restaurant 's ever-changing menu of five-course dinners -- it supposedly has n't repeated a meal 
Still , the restaurant 's ever-changing menu of five-course dinners -- it supposedly has n't repeated a meal since opening in 1971 -- requires constant improvisation . 
Many in the Bay Area 's pastry community express disbelief that Ms. Shere kept only one copy of such valuable notes 
`` There are so many possible proportions 
The company has declined requests to discuss the changes 
UNIFIRST Corp. declared a 2-for-1 stock split . 
UNIFIRST Corp. declared a 2-for-1 stock split . 
Under the agreement , Healthcare , a manager of health-care facilities , said it would pay HealthVest $ 3.9 million in overdue rent and mortgage payments and repay $ 1.1 million in funds that HealthVest advanced for construction work on facilities . 
In addition , Healthcare agreed to make monthly rent and mortgage payments of $ 2.7 million to $ 3 million to HealthVest during the standstill period , to be paid 
Because Healthcare actually owes HealthVest $ 4.2 million in rent and mortgage payments each month , the amount due above the amount paid will be added to the three-year note 
The funds should help ease a cash bind at HealthVest , which has been unable to pay its debts 
Healthcare , which has been in a severe liquidity bind , said it is able to make the payments 
Actually , about two years ago , the Journal listed the creation of the money fund as one of the 10 most significant events in the world of finance in the 20th century . 
But the Reserve Fund , America 's first money fund , was not named 
The crowning moment in the career of Joseph F. O'Kicki came 
As the judge marched down the center aisle in his flowing black robe , he was heralded by a trumpet fanfare 
To many , it was a ceremony more befitting a king than a rural judge seated in the isolated foothills of the southern Allegheny Mountains . 
To many , it was a ceremony more befitting a king than a rural judge seated in the isolated foothills of the southern Allegheny Mountains . 
While his case may be extreme , it reflects the vulnerability of many small communities to domineering judges 
One former bailiff charged that the judge double-crossed him by reneging on a promise of a better paying job 
One secretary testified that the judge once called her to his office 
Even if only some of the allegations stand up , however , they provide ample testimony to the awesome power of judges in rural communities 
Some of the allegations are simply bizarre . 
That power can sometimes be abused 
Fear of alienating that judge is pervasive , says Maurice Geiger , founder and director of the Rural Justice Center in Montpelier , Vt. , a public interest group that researches rural justice issues . 
As a result , says Mr. Geiger , lawyers think twice 
He graduated near the top of his class , serving on the school law review with Richard Thornburgh , who went on to become governor of Pennsylvania and , now , U.S. Attorney General . 
After practicing law locally , he was elected to his first 10-year term as judge in 1971 
He has been considered several times for appointments to federal district and appellate court vacancies in Pennsylvania . 
And when he ran unsuccessfully for a state appellate court seat in 1983 , the Pennsylvania Bar Association rated him `` one of the best available , '' after interviewing local lawyers 
And when he ran unsuccessfully for a state appellate court seat in 1983 , the Pennsylvania Bar Association rated him `` one of the best available 
`` What about those institutions that are supposed to be the bedrock of society , the banks and the bar association ... ? '' wrote a columnist for the Tribune-Democrat , a newspaper in nearby Johnstown 
`` If only a banker or a lawyer had spoken out years ago , the judicial process would n't be under the taint it is today 
Eventually , Mr. Green testified , he began ducking out of his office rather than face the judge 
When Mr. Green won a $ 240,000 verdict in a land condemnation case against the state in June 1983 , he says Judge O'Kicki unexpectedly awarded him an additional $ 100,000 
Mr. Green thought little of it 
Mr. Green thought little of it , he told the grand jury , until the judge walked up to him 
Appalled , Mr. Green never paid the money , he testified . 
Appalled , Mr. Green never paid the money , he testified . 
Like most of Cambria County 's lawyers and residents who had dealings with the judge , Mr. Green declined to be interviewed for this article . 
`` I do n't have anything much to say 
Says another lawyer : `` The practice of law is a matter of biting one 's lip 
One had best not dance on top of a coffin 
He sipped tea sweetened with honey from his high-backed leather chair at his bench 
Four years ago , he jailed all nine members of the Cambria County School Board for several hours 
Visitors in his chambers say he could cite precisely the years , months , weeks and days remaining 
`` My name is judge , '' Judge O'Kicki told a car salesman in Ebensburg 
The judge was considered imperious , abrasive and ambitious , those who practiced before him say . 
`` Until this came up and hit the press , there was never any indication that he was doing anything wrong 
The judge came under scrutiny in late 1987 
When the judge bought his new Sunbird from James E. Black Pontiac-Cadillac in Ebensburg five years ago , the dealership had `` certain apprehensions '' about the judge 's reputation , according to the grand-jury report 
The dealership took the extra step of having all the paper work for the transaction pre-approved by Ebensburg 's local lender , Laurel Bank . 
Then , as an additional precaution , the car dealership took the judge 's photograph 
Then , as an additional precaution , the car dealership took the judge 's photograph as he stood next to his new car with sales papers in hand -- proof that he had received the loan documents . 
But when the judge received his payment book , he disavowed the deal 
But when the judge received his payment book , he disavowed the deal . 
After Laurel Bank tried to repossess the car , a vice president asked him to intervene in an unrelated legal dispute involving a trust account 
`` I find myself in an adversary relationship with Laurel Bank 
`` Perhaps if my personal matters can be resolved with Laurel bank in the near future , I may be inclined to reconsider your request 
It refinanced the judge 's loan , lowered its interest rate and accepted a trade-in that had n't originally been part of the deal -- a beat up 1981 Chevy Citation the dealer had to repair 
The judge says he ca n't discuss in detail how he will defend himself at his trial 
The judge says he ca n't discuss in detail how he will defend himself at his trial , although he contends that if he were as corrupt as state prosecutors believe , he would be far wealthier than he is 
`` If I lose , I lose my position , my career , my pension , my home and my investments 
As a money manager and a grass-roots environmentalist , I was very disappointed to read in the premiere issue of Garbage that The Wall Street Journal uses 220,000 metric tons of newsprint each year 
As a money manager and a grass-roots environmentalist , I was very disappointed to read in the premiere issue of Garbage that The Wall Street Journal uses 220,000 metric tons of newsprint each year , but that only 1.4 % of it comes from recycled paper . 
FIRST AMERICAN FINANCIAL Corp. declared a special dividend of one share of Class B common stock for each share of Class A common stock , payable to holders of record on Nov. 10 
Shareholders of the Santa Ana , Calif. , title-insurance company approved the creation of this second class of stock , which will be traded on the national over-the-counter market 
The rate on the notes will be reset annually to give the issue a market value of 101 . 
The issue is 6 % to 7 % overcollateralized 
Berthold is based in Wildbad , West Germany 
EG&G Inc. said it acquired Laboratorium Prof. Dr. Berthold , a German maker of scientific instruments . 
The Internal Revenue Service said it is willing to let the U.S. Tax Court decide how much oil man William Herbert Hunt will owe the government 
The surprise announcement came 
Although the action removes one obstacle in the way of an overall settlement to the case , it also means that Mr. Hunt could be stripped of virtually all of his assets if the Tax Court rules against him in a 1982 case heard earlier this year in Washington , D.C 
Although the action removes one obstacle in the way of an overall settlement to the case 
Although the action removes one obstacle in the way of an overall settlement to the case , it also means that Mr. Hunt could be stripped of virtually all of his assets 
The Internal Revenue Service said it is willing to let the U.S. Tax Court decide how much oil man William Herbert Hunt will owe the government after his assets are liquidated . 
Regarding Mr. Hunt 's taxes , he and the IRS have apparently agreed on a basic formula for liquidating his estate in which the IRS would get 70 % of the proceeds from a liquidating trust 
Regarding Mr. Hunt 's taxes , he and the IRS have apparently agreed on a basic formula for liquidating his estate in which the IRS would get 70 % of the proceeds from a liquidating trust and 30 % would go to other creditors . 
But they have been at odds over how much Mr. Hunt would owe the government 
The IRS had demanded $ 90 million 
Grover Hartt III , a government lawyer , warned that Mr. Hunt stood to lose certain oil and gas properties , $ 200,000 in English pottery , a Colorado condominium and other assets he might have kept 
Grover Hartt III , a government lawyer , warned that Mr. Hunt stood to lose certain oil and gas properties , $ 200,000 in English pottery , a Colorado condominium and other assets he might have kept if he had settled with the IRS . 
`` But they wanted to roll the dice 
That may not come as a surprise to Americans who have watched the Japanese snap up properties in the U.S. from golf courses to a stake in Rockefeller Center . 
But it marks a big change for the Japanese , who shunned mortgage securities 
`` You ca n't say it 's a `` tsunami '' -LRB- tidal wave -RRB- 
Earlier this year , Blackstone Group , a New York investment bank , had no trouble selling out a special $ 570 million mortgage-securities trust it created for Japanese investors . Industrial Bank of Japan , which claims to be the biggest Japanese buyer of U.S. mortgage securities , says it will more than double its purchases this year , to an amount one official puts at several billion dollars . 
`` Last year , there were only several big investors who were interested , '' says Kinji Kato , a vice president at the international arm of Nomura Securities Co . `` This year , some investors are changing their policies and investing a lot . '' 
At the moment , Nomura is the only Japanese institution authorized to act as a primary seller of Fannie Mae instruments . 
While they are n't backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. government , as Treasury bonds are , it is widely assumed that the government would support them if necessary 
While they are n't backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. government , as Treasury bonds are , it is widely assumed that the government would support them 
These securities are attractive to Japanese investors for three reasons . 
But there is a risk , which the Japanese discovered 
Since most mortgages can be prepaid or refinanced at any time , issuers of mortgage securities retain the right to buy back their bonds before maturity 
That 's a headache for long-term investors 
`` Two or three years ago , the problem was that people did n't understand the prepayment risk , '' says Nomura 's Mr. Kato . 
Compounding the trouble to Japanese investors , mortgage securities pay interest monthly 
Compounding the trouble to Japanese investors , mortgage securities pay interest monthly , since most mortgages require homeowners to make monthly payments . 
But Japanese institutional investors are used to quarterly or semiannual payments on their investments 
But there is a risk , which the Japanese discovered when they first dipped their toes into the market nearly five years ago . Since most mortgages can be prepaid or refinanced at any time , issuers of mortgage securities retain the right to buy back their bonds before maturity . That 's a headache for long-term investors , since it forces them to reinvest their money -- usually at lower rates than the original mortgage securities carried . Compounding the trouble to Japanese investors , mortgage securities pay interest monthly , since most mortgages require homeowners to make monthly payments . But Japanese institutional investors are used to quarterly or semiannual payments on their investments , so the monthly cash flow posed administrative problems . 
As a result , Japanese investors steered clear of the mortgage securities . 
Since 1985 , Japanese investors have bought nearly 80 % of $ 10 billion in Fannie Mae corporate debt issued to foreigners , money that Fannie Mae uses to buy mortgages from U.S. banks . 
Since 1985 , Japanese investors have bought nearly 80 % of $ 10 billion in Fannie Mae corporate debt issued to foreigners , money that Fannie Mae uses to buy mortgages from U.S. banks . And Japanese investors took up nearly all of two $ 200 million Real Estate Mortgage Investment Conduits , a kind of collateralized mortgage obligation , that were offered to foreigners this year . 
In addition , further packaging of mortgage-backed securities , such as Blackstone 's fund , have reduced the effects of prepayment risk and automatically reinvest monthly payments 
As Georgia-Pacific 's bid for Great Northern Nekoosa has shown , uninvited takeovers are still alive despite premature reports of their demise . 
Although poison pills come in different colors and shapes , they usually give current shareholders the right to buy more stock of their corporation at a large discount if certain events occur 
Although poison pills come in different colors and shapes , they usually give current shareholders the right to buy more stock of their corporation at a large discount 
Although poison pills come in different colors and shapes , they usually give current shareholders the right to buy more stock of their corporation at a large discount 
Although poison pills come in different colors and shapes , they usually give current shareholders the right to buy more stock of their corporation at a large discount if certain events occur -- typically , if a hostile bidder acquires more than a specified percentage of the corporation 's stock . 
However , these discount purchase rights may generally be redeemed at a nominal cost by the corporation 's directors 
Supporters of poison pills argue that their adoption forces bidders to negotiate with a corporation 's directors 
Does this team have a viable strategy for improving shareholder values 
If the answers to these questions are affirmative 
If the answers to these questions are affirmative , then institutional investors are likely to be favorably disposed toward a specific poison pill . 
However , the problem is that once most poison pills are adopted , they survive forever 
Although the current management team may be outstanding , who will be the CEO in 10 years 
Although the five-year strategy may be excellent , what will be the strategy in 25 years 
At the end of this period , the poison pill would be eliminated automatically 
One rare example of a time-limited poison pill is the shareholder rights plan adopted by Pennzoil last year 
This pill automatically expires after three years 
The Ontario Supreme Court overturned Mr. Blair 's decision . 
Buying 51 % of Rockefeller Group Inc. is right up Mitsubishi Estate Co. 's alley in one sense : The huge Japanese real estate company is entering a long-term relationship with a similarly conservative U.S. owner of tony urban property . 
`` On balance , we think it will be positive . '' 
But some Japanese government officials and businessmen worry that the prominent purchase is just the sort of deal that should be avoided for the time being . 
`` Officially , yes , we encourage the free flow of direct investment , '' says a Foreign Ministry official . 
In Los Angeles , Arco Plaza was sold to Shuwa Corp. for $ 620 million in 1986 
`` Those who have no money and are n't buying think it 's right to refrain 
`` Those who have no money and are n't buying think it 's right to refrain , but those with money who want to buy for themselves pay no attention , '' says an official of the Japan-U.S . Business Council . 
First of all , it is a friendly acquisition in which Rockefeller sought out Mitsubishi Estate and asked it to buy a majority share . Secondly , the two companies found a similarity in their business and development philosophies and intend to cooperate in a range of activities from real estate to telecommunications . 
`` We 'll continue to work with them , in keeping with the reputation of the company 
That was just an early step in a relationship with government that has earned the Mitsubishi group the dubious moniker of `` seisho , '' literally government-business , a title that has the pejorative connotation of doing the government 's bidding 
It 's known for its cautiousness 
Rockefeller is n't the first overseas purchase for Mitsubishi Estate -- it has already played a leading role in designing Los Angeles 's Citicorp Plaza . 
But the Rockefeller investment is its largest . 
Mitsubishi Estate has n't decided how it will raise the funds for the purchase , which are due in cash next April 
Mitsubishi Estate has n't decided how it will raise the funds for the purchase , which are due in cash next April , but the Marunouchi holdings alone are estimated to have a market value of as much as 10 trillion yen to 11 trillion yen . 
Moreover , as a member of the Mitsubishi group , which is headed by one of Japan 's largest banks , it is sure to win a favorable loan . 
For Mitsubishi Estate , the Rockefeller purchase will catapult it firmly into the overseas real estate business , the one area where it has lagged notably behind Japanese competitors such as Mitsui , which had purchased the Exxon Building . 
The centerpiece of that complex , the Landmark Tower , will be Japan 's tallest building 
It is the largest private-sector landowner of the Minato-Mirai 21 project , a multibillion-yen development in the port city of Yokohama , about an hour outside Tokyo . 
Time Warner Inc. and Sony Corp. may be today 's public enemies 
The two sides in the legal battle have hurled accusations of duplicity at each other for weeks 
The two sides in the legal battle have hurled accusations of duplicity at each other for weeks , and both Warner and Sony have accused each other of trying to sabotage each other 's prospects for success in the entertainment business . 
But it may amount to little more than posturing ; the two have continued on-again , off-again settlement talks over the last few weeks 
Both Warner and Sony declined to comment on the terms of the settlement discussions . 
But the people familiar with the talks said that Warner is n't expected to get any cash in the settlement . 
Warner has surpassed Sony as the largest record company 
Instead , Sony is likely to agree to let Warner participate in certain of its businesses , such as the record club of Sony 's CBS Records unit . 
The two sides are also discussing certain business ventures involving cable rights to Columbia 's movies . 
Time Warner Inc. and Sony Corp. may be today 's public enemies , but the two entertainment giants could end up becoming partners in a number of ventures as part of a settlement of their acrimonious legal dispute over Hollywood producers Peter Guber and Jon Peters . 
Still , it may be tough for the two to have a smooth partnership in anything , in the wake of sworn affidavits filed over the last week . 
Mr. Ross , who will be chairman and co-chief executive officer of Time Warner 
Mr. Ross , who will be chairman and co-chief executive officer of Time Warner after the merger is complete , denied that in his own affidavit , and called Mr. Yetnikoff 's remarks `` vicious '' and his claims `` reckless , irresponsible and baseless , '' saying Warner under his leadership has started a number of businesses in Japan . 
Still , it may be tough for the two to have a smooth partnership in anything , in the wake of sworn affidavits filed over the last week . 
Talks between the two sides could unravel , of course , as they have more than once 
Talks between the two sides could unravel , of course , as they have more than once since Sony announced its plans to hire Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters . 
But both sides appear to be more willing now to meet each other 's terms to resolve the issue . 
And although Warner has said it wanted the producers to fulfill the terms of their contract , the producers said in sworn court declarations that they did n't believe the relationship could be repaired after the acrimony of the legal battle 
And although Warner has said it wanted the producers to fulfill the terms of their contract , the producers said in sworn court declarations that they did n't believe the relationship could be repaired after the acrimony of the legal battle . 
Any settlement is also expected to exclude Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters from any of the projects they were working on at Warner . 
Once a studio chooses not to actually make a movie that is in development , producers are typically free to take it elsewhere 
Any settlement is also expected to exclude Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters from any of the projects they were working on at Warner . 
Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters also almost certainly would n't be able to participate in future sequels to `` Batman , '' the blockbuster hit they produced for Warner . 
But in acquiring Guber-Peters Entertainment , Sony will actually get a piece of the profits from `` Batman 
In a statement , Southern Co. President Edward L. Addison said , `` We believe our decision to plead -LRB- guilty -RRB- to these charges is responsible and proper . 
Mr. Barr said yesterday 's plea by Gulf Power , which came after months of negotiations , was based on evidence that Gulf Power had set up an elaborate payment system through which it reimbursed outside vendors -- primarily three Florida advertising agencies -- for making illegal political contributions on its behalf . 
The Appleyard Agency , for example , allegedly made contributions from 1982 to 1984 to various funds for political candidates 
The contributions were funded by monthly payments of $ 1,000 to $ 2,000 to Appleyard in the guise of a `` special production fee '' -- in effect , hiding the nature of the payments from the Internal Revenue Service , federal prosecutors said . 
Mr. Horton , who oversaw Gulf Power 's governmental-affairs efforts , died mysteriously in a plane crash in April 
Under the program , dubbed Chivas Class , customers who send in two labels from Chivas bottles will receive an upgrade in seating class on some Trans World Airlines flights . 
Under the program , dubbed Chivas Class , customers who send in two labels from Chivas bottles will receive an upgrade in seating class on some Trans World Airlines flights . Repeat customers also can purchase luxury items at reduced prices . 
`` I would be very leery of anything that says if you drink more , you get more 
Last year , J&B Scotch offered 500 TWA frequent flier miles in exchange for a label . 
Chivas Class is n't the first such promotion . 
MOST FOOD companies these days are trimming the fat and cholesterol content of their products to appeal to health-conscious consumers . 
Goya is selling Leche Fresca in nearly 500 grocery stores and bodegas in New York and parts of New Jersey . 
Jewelry displays in department stores were often cluttered and uninspired . 
Jewelry displays in department stores were often cluttered and uninspired . And the merchandise was , well , fake . 
As a result , marketers of faux gems steadily lost space in department stores to more fashionable rivals -- cosmetics makers . 
But lately , retailers say , fake has become more fashionable . 
Last year , the total women 's fashion jewelry business topped $ 4.9 billion , says Karen Alberg , editor of Accessories magazine . 
They 're hiring models to stroll the aisles sporting their jewels 
They 're hiring models to stroll the aisles sporting their jewels , and they 're even beginning to borrow a perennial favorite of the beauty business -- offering a gift 
`` We 've started trying just about anything to keep sales moving in the stores , '' says Kim Renk , a Swank vice president . 
And jewelry makers are beginning to use many of the same marketing tricks honed in the aggressive world of cosmetics . 
Northwest Airlines settled the remaining lawsuits filed on behalf of 156 people killed in a 1987 crash 
Northwest Airlines settled the remaining lawsuits filed on behalf of 156 people killed in a 1987 crash , but claims against the jetliner 's maker are being pursued , a federal judge said . 
U.S. District Judge Julian A. Cook Jr. announced the settlements 
The National Transportation Safety Board ruled that pilots failed to set the plane 's wing flaps and slats properly for takeoff and failed to make mandatory preflight checks that would have detected the error . 
Sun Myung Moon , the Korean evangelist-industrialist who in 1954 founded the Unification Church , remains the mystery man behind a multimillion-dollar political and publishing operation based in this country and catering to the American right . 
Mr. Moon planned to convert millions of Americans to his unique brand of Christianity 
More stable industries were to build an economically viable infrastructure for the Moon movement in North America , as they had in Japan and South Korea . 
More stable industries were to build an economically viable infrastructure for the Moon movement in North America , as they had in Japan and South Korea . Then he would move his movement to Europe . 
It is still common to read in the press that the church has 10,000 or more full-time American members and 25,000 `` associates . '' Some estimates have gone as high as 80,000 members . 
For a while in the 1970s it seemed Mr. Moon was on a spending spree , with such purchases as the former New Yorker Hotel and its adjacent Manhattan Center ; a fishing\/processing conglomerate with branches in Alaska , Massachusetts , Virginia and Louisiana ; a former Christian Brothers monastery and the Seagram family mansion -LRB- both picturesquely situated on the Hudson River -RRB- ; shares in banks from Washington to Uruguay ; a motion picture production company , and newspapers , such as the Washington Times , the New York City Tribune -LRB- originally the News World -RRB- , and the successful Spanish-language Noticias del Mundo . 
Those teams of young fund-raisers selling flowers , peanuts or begging outright at traffic intersections brought in somewhere near $ 20 million a year during the mid-to-late 1970s 
Virginia Commonwealth University sociologist David Bromley , who more than any other researcher has delved into the complex world of Unificationist finances , has concluded that profitable operations in the U.S. have been the exceptions rather than the rule . 
Start-up costs for the Washington Times alone were close to $ 50 million 
According to veteran watchers of Unificationist affairs , such as Dr. J. Gordon Melton , director of the Institute for the Study of American Religion , almost all operations are being drastically reduced 
But that was not to be . 
In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission , the majority holder of Manville acknowledged that the cash portion of its initial funding of $ 765 million will be depleted next year 
The trust , which was created as part of Manville 's bankruptcy-law reorganization to compensate victims of asbestos-related diseases , ultimately expects to receive $ 2.5 billion from Manville 
The trust is considering a sale of its Manville holdings 
Manville and the trust are discussing the offer 
In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission , the majority holder of Manville acknowledged that the cash portion of its initial funding of $ 765 million will be depleted next year , and that alternative sources of funds will be necessary to meet its obligations . 
All are non-Russian republics along the southern border of the Soviet Union 
He added : `` How is a travel agent going to sell a holiday 
The two , Szeto Wah and Martin Lee , were deemed unfit 
The committee is formulating Hong Kong 's constitution for when it reverts to Chinese control in 1997 
The committee is formulating Hong Kong 's constitution for when it reverts to Chinese control in 1997 , and Chinese lawmakers said the two can only return 
Israeli officials confirmed that Energy Minister Moshe Shahal and his Canadian counterpart , Jake Epp , discussed a possible Israeli purchase of a $ 1.1 billion Canadian nuclear reactor for producing electricity . 
However , a Canadian Embassy official in Tel Aviv said that Canada was unlikely to sell the Candu heavy-water reactor to Israel 
The South Korean government is signing a protocol today establishing formal diplomatic relations with Poland . 
South Korean government officials said they do n't expect that Seoul can loan money to Warsaw 
Under the debt-equity program , potential investors will submit sealed bids on the percentage of discount they are willing to purchase the debt at 
A federal judge ruled that Imelda Marcos was n't brought to the U.S. against her will 
A federal judge ruled that Imelda Marcos was n't brought to the U.S. against her will and that marital privileges , which protect spouses from incriminating each other , do n't apply in her case . 
Mrs. Marcos had claimed that she did n't have to turn over the documents 
Mrs. Marcos had claimed that she did n't have to turn over the documents because she was brought here involuntarily 
Mrs. Marcos had claimed that she did n't have to turn over the documents 
The law is meant to overcome delays caused by defendants ' use of foreign procedures to block U.S. requests for records , Judge Keenan said in his opinion . 
On the allegation of kidnapping , Judge Keenan wrote , `` The suggestion that Mrs. Marcos was brought to this country against her will is unsupported by affidavit or affirmation . '' 
The first one permits a witness to refuse to testify against her spouse . 
Because Mr. Marcos died Sept. 28 , the privilege can no longer apply 
The second marital privilege cited by Mrs. Marcos protects confidential communications between spouses . 
Though Judge Keenan threw out most of Mrs. Marcos 's objections , he agreed with one of her concerns : that turning over the foreign documents could violate the defendant 's constitutional right against self-incrimination 
Though Judge Keenan threw out most of Mrs. Marcos 's objections , he agreed with one of her concerns : that turning over the foreign documents could violate the defendant 's constitutional right against self-incrimination . 
As a result , he said he will examine the Marcos documents sought by the prosecutors to determine whether turning over the filings is self-incrimination . 
The firms will be registered under Japanese law as foreign legal consultants 
The firms will be registered under Japanese law as foreign legal consultants and their practice with Japanese clients will be limited to advising them on matters of foreign law . 
Sidley & Austin , a leading Chicago-based law firm , and Ashurst Morris Crisp , a midsized London firm of solicitors , are scheduled today to announce plans to open a joint office in Tokyo . 
The union sued the state in November 1985 , alleging that it intentionally segregated job classifications by sex and paid employees in predominantly female jobs less than males in comparable jobs . 
No one could voice an opinion 
No one could voice an opinion until everybody with more seniority had spoken first 
Employees wore identification badges listing not only their names but also their dates of hire . No one could voice an opinion until everybody with more seniority had spoken first , so younger employees -- often the most enthusiastic and innovative -- seldom spoke up at all . 
A rule forbidding staffers to own competitors ' cars has been lifted 
In recent years , Nissan has instituted flex-time work schedules and allowed employees to dress casually , even in blue jeans . A rule forbidding staffers to own competitors ' cars has been lifted , and now many designers drive foreign cars to get useful ideas . Nissan 's decades-old corporate song filled with references to Mount Fuji has been scrapped in favor of a snappy tune sung by a popular Japanese vocalist . 
`` We had lots of internal debate about this one , '' concedes Tadahiko Fukuyama , a senior public-relations official . 
`` We had lots of internal debate about this one , '' concedes Tadahiko Fukuyama , a senior public-relations official . 
The company 's turnaround is far from complete ; many crucial tests are just beginning . 
The big one : A company 's culture ca n't be radically changed 
The big one : A company 's culture ca n't be radically changed unless top management first admits that things have gone badly awry 
If a new person got to work on part of the speedometer , that was a big deal 
Desperately hoping to spark sales , Nissan transferred 5,000 middle managers and plant workers to dealerships . 
One group of middle-aged manufacturing men from the company 's Zama plant outside Tokyo was supposed to check out a trendy restaurant in the city . 
But when they arrived at the door , all were afraid to go in 
He liked the well-lighted lobby display of Honda 's cars and trucks so much that he had Nissan 's gloomy lobby exhibit refurbished . 
Such sudden cultural shifts may come across as a bit forced 
Such sudden cultural shifts may come across as a bit forced , but they seem to be genuine 
Nissan handled the die-hards in a typically Japanese fashion : They were n't fired 
A year ago , the company completely revamped its near-luxury sedan , the $ 17,699 Maxima , which competes against a broad range of upscale sedans ; it replaced its boxy , pug-nosed body with sleek , aerodynamic lines . 
Nissan initially planned to sell just 10,000 Paos 
Nissan initially planned to sell just 10,000 Paos , but sales have passed 50,000 
One is the Pao , a tiny coupe with a peelback canvas top and tilted headlights that give it a droopy-eyed look . 
The chairs are S-Cargo seats 
Nissan had 29 % of the Japanese car market in 1980 
Strong sales so far this year are certain to turn the tide 
Nissan concedes that it wo n't recoup all its market-share losses in Japan until at least 1995 
Nissan 's pace of new-model hits will slow 
Nissan concedes that it wo n't recoup all its market-share losses in Japan until at least 1995 , and even that timetable might prove optimistic . 
Likewise , in the U.S. , Nissan has grabbed 5.2 % of the car market so far this year , up from 4.5 % a year ago . 
The Stanza has been a nonentity compared with Honda 's hugely successful Accord and Toyota 's Camry . 
But this year , Honda has revamped the Accord and made it a midsized car . 
Nissan instead has kept its new Stanza a bit smaller than that and cut the base price 6 % ; at $ 11,450 , Stanza prices start $ 749 below the predecessor model 
Nissan 's risk is that its low-base-price strategy might get lost amid the highly publicized rebates being offered by Detroit 's Big Three . 
But `` on a new car , a rebate does n't work well 
Even if the new Stanza succeeds , Nissan will remain behind in the subcompact segment 
Nissan started advertising Infiniti 
The ads have generated some laughs but also plenty of attention 
The ads have generated some laughs but also plenty of attention because they are so unlike any other U.S. auto advertising . 
`` When I saw the Lexus sales projections , I got worried 
`` When I saw the Lexus sales projections , I got worried , '' confesses Takashi Oka , who led the Infiniti development team . 
`` Infiniti is Nissan 's big business move for the 21st century 
These days Nissan can afford that strategy 
Nissan had record net income of 114.63 billion yen -LRB- $ 868 million -RRB- in the fiscal year ended last March 31 , a remarkable recovery from the 20.39 billion yen of two years earlier , when the company lost money on operations . 
That gives it an enviable strategic advantage , at least until its rivals catch up , but also plenty of managerial headaches 
That gives it an enviable strategic advantage , at least until its rivals catch up , but also plenty of managerial headaches . 
For example , Nissan 's U.S. operations include 10 separate subsidiaries -- for manufacturing , sales , design , research , etc. -- that report separately back to Japan . 
`` We are in a transitional phase from being a Japanese company to becoming an international company based in Japan , '' says Mr. Muramatsu , the executive vice president . 
Perhaps the biggest challenge , however , will be to prevent a return to its former corporate rigidity 
`` We are still only half way through the turnaround of this company 
`` We are still only half way through the turnaround of this company , and there are many more things to do , '' President Kume says . 
Mr. Azoff has n't named the company yet 
In a statement yesterday , Mr. Azoff said he chose Warner , the largest record company 
The White House is purposely not calling the meeting a summit 
The White House is purposely not calling the meeting a summit so that there wo n't be any expectation of detailed negotiations or agreements . 
In announcing the meeting yesterday , Mr. Bush told reporters at the White House that neither he nor Mr. Gorbachev expects any `` substantial decisions or agreements . '' 
A face-to-face meeting with Mr. Gorbachev should damp such criticism 
Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell -LRB- D. , Maine -RRB- , who has been the most prominent Democratic critic of Mr. Bush 's handling of the Soviet relationship , praised the president for arranging the meeting . 
Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze , at a news conference in Moscow , said , `` As the two sides plan to hold a full-scale summit in late spring-early summer next year , they found it useful , I would say even necessary , to hold an interim informal meeting 
Although no specific agreements are expected , Mr. Shevardnadze said `` that does n't mean they will be without an agenda 
If the two leaders cover the subjects that have been featured in lower level U.S.-Soviet meetings , their talks would include human rights , Soviet reforms , regional disputes , relations with allies , economic cooperation , arms control , and joint efforts to fight narcotics , terrorism and pollution 
In an unusually candid article about the latest economic woe -- unemployment -- Pravda yesterday reported that three million Soviets have lost their jobs as a result of perestroika 
Economists in Moscow are now proposing that the state start a system of unemployment benefits . 
But one Bush administration official knowledgeable about the summit plan cautioned against assuming that there will be bold new initiatives on the Soviet economy or other issues . 
They argue that as the Kremlin follows through on announced plans to cut land forces -- the Soviets ' area of greatest strength -- the U.S. should show more willingness to cut sea forces -- Washington 's area of greatest superiority 
That meeting sent shivers through the Western alliance 
Mr. Bush said that he initiated talks with the Soviets on the informal meeting by sending a proposal to Mr. Gorbachev last July , which the Soviet leader readily accepted . 
But word of the possible session was closely held by the president and a handful of top aides 
But word of the possible session was closely held by the president and a handful of top aides , and word of it did n't reach many second-level officials until the past few days . 
Though President Bush 's political critics at home have been urging him to open a more direct dialogue with Mr. Gorbachev , it actually was the arguments of leaders within the Soviet bloc itself that led the president to seek the December meeting 
While flying home from those discussions , Mr. Bush drafted a letter to Mr. Gorbachev suggesting an informal get-together to precede their formal summit next year 
Banca Nazionale del Lavoro said its potential losses from lending to Iraq could reach 1.175 trillion lire -LRB- $ 872 million -RRB- , marking the bank 's first quantification of potential costs of unauthorized lending by its Atlanta branch . 
State-owned BNL , Italy 's largest bank , has filed charges against the branch 's former manager , Christopher Drogoul , and a former branch vice president , alleging fraud and breach of their fiduciary duties . 
The central bank had ordered BNL to come up with a suitable program by yesterday . 
Bank of Italy has also ordered BNL to shore up its capital base to account for potential foreign loan losses 
Maybe he did n't start it 
Unfortunately , according to Webster 's Biographical Dictionary , `` His policies went beyond his control and resulted ... in riots and disturbances 
I am not a proponent of everything Gandhi did 
I am not a proponent of everything Gandhi did , but some of his law breaking was justified 
I am not a proponent of everything Gandhi did , but some of his law breaking was justified because India was then under occupation by a foreign power 
I am not a proponent of everything Gandhi did , but some of his law breaking was justified because India was then under occupation by a foreign power , and Indians were not able to participate fully in decisions that vitally affected them . 
Where truly representative governments are safeguarded by constitutional protections of human rights and an independent judiciary to construe those rights , there is no excuse for breaking the law 
The case of Rosa Parks , the black woman who refused to sit at the back of the bus , comes to mind as an illustration . 
It is true that both are non-violent 
The subject of this discussion is non-violent civil disobedience 
The subject of this discussion is non-violent civil disobedience ; but , before we get on with that , let me make just a few tangential remarks about lawful demonstrations 
They are useful to call public attention to grievances 
Demonstrations are particularly apt to degenerate into criminal conduct 
The crimes may appear small 
The protesters lie down in the street , blocking traffic , and will not move 
The demonstration was non-violent and involved only a simple misdemeanor 
The demonstrators have been non-violent 
It might be alleged that TV has done more than its share to popularize and promote non-violent civil disobedience 
It might be alleged that TV has done more than its share to popularize and promote non-violent civil disobedience , so the second situation hypothesized above would be simply a case of `` chickens coming home to roost . '' 
Let us look for a moment at another type of non-violent civil disobedience that only harms other people indirectly 
Even more at fault are those leaders in and out of government who urged and supported their defections 
Under the guise of `` healing the wounds of the nation , '' President Carter pardoned thousands of draft evaders 
The precedent having been set , who can complain 
The precedent having been set , who can complain if future generations called upon to defend the U.S. yield to the temptation to avoid the danger of combat by simply declaring the war immoral and hiding 
It is difficult , however , to justify civil disobedience , non-violent or not , where citizens have full recourse to the ballot box to effect change . The public has a tendency to equate lawful demonstrations with non-violent civil disobedience . Let us look for a moment at another type of non-violent civil disobedience that only harms other people indirectly , yet does irreparable damage to the nation as a whole . The subject of this discussion is non-violent civil disobedience ; but , before we get on with that , let me make just a few tangential remarks about lawful demonstrations . They are useful to call public attention to grievances , but they have little value in educating anyone about the issues in dispute . At best , demonstrations are overused and boringly uninformative ; at worst , they can become the stimuli that lead to law breaking . 
Give television a chance to cover live any breaking of the law 
Here is a good rule of thumb : If the movement produced the leader , the chance that he is sincere is much greater than if the leader produced the movement 
If you have not , it is probable that a thorough airing of the dispute by calm and rational debate would have been the better course 
Mr. Agnew was vice president of the U.S. from 1969 
The quarter-to-quarter comparison was also enhanced by charges taken in the year-earlier period , including $ 11 million related to the modernization of a pulp and newsprint mill in Alabama . 
The agents will make more than routine inquiries about such items as marital status and dependents ; they want to look at living standards and business assets . 
The agents will make more than routine inquiries about such items as marital status and dependents ; they want to look at living standards and business assets . 
Courts have ruled that taxpayers must submit to TCMP audits 
Long-debated proposals to simplify the more than 150 civil penalties and make them fairer and easier to administer are in the House tax bill . 
But they were stripped from the Senate bill 
But they were stripped from the Senate bill after staffers estimated penalty revenue would fall by $ 216 million over five years . 
Still , congressional aides say penalty reform is a strong candidate for enactment 
Still , congressional aides say penalty reform is a strong candidate for enactment 
States are following suit . 
The group 's Mark Cahoon says its efforts begun in 1989 have led to the introduction of bills in Massachusetts , Minnesota and Colorado to establish evenhanded procedures affecting all kinds of taxpayers . 
THE MILEAGE RATE allowed for business use of a car in 1989 has risen to 25.5 cents a mile for the first 15,000 from 24 cents in 1988 , the IRS says ; the rate stays 11 cents for each added mile . 
HE RODE HIS HOBBY 
The court often weighs deductions of sideline-business costs : Do they stem from a profit-seeking activity or a nondeductible hobby ? 
He claimed losses totaling $ 42,455 
Special Judge Galloway noted that Givens managed horse-breeding in a businesslike way : He kept detailed accounts , practiced soil conservation , enhanced his experience by consulting experts , spent several hours a day doing chores , and dropped the sideline 
Special Judge Galloway noted that Givens managed horse-breeding in a businesslike way : He kept detailed accounts , practiced soil conservation , enhanced his experience by consulting experts , spent several hours a day doing chores , and dropped the sideline when his best brood mare died . 
Eastern 's creditors committee , along with the company , has consistently opposed the pilots ' claim , which if paid would have to come out of money both hope to use to pay off other bankruptcy claims 
An earlier plan , which had received the creditors ' approval in July , fell apart 
The clause was part of an agreement in which pilots accepted a substantial pay cut 
Shortly after Texas Air took control of Eastern , some Machinists union supervisors received a 20 % pay raise 
Eastern has disputed the claim 
The general public may not know his name 
Now , after beating them , Mr. Achenbaum is joining them 
They have since mellowed 
They have since mellowed , although one senior Young & Rubicam executive , echoing others , said : `` I think ad agencies owe Carl -LCB- Spielvogel -RCB- a vote of thanks for getting him out of the consulting business . '' 
They have since mellowed , although one senior Young & Rubicam executive , echoing others , said : `` I think ad agencies owe Carl -LCB- Spielvogel -RCB- a vote of thanks for getting him out of the consulting business . '' 
At Backer Spielvogel , he will work with clients and potential clients on marketing strategies 
At Backer Spielvogel , he will work with clients and potential clients on marketing strategies ; aside from agency compensation issues , he helped Nissan , for example , come up with its positioning and pricing for its new Infiniti line . 
`` I 've done over 40 ad agency searches -LCB- for clients -RCB- 
`` I 've done over 40 ad agency searches -LCB- for clients -RCB- , so I have a pretty good notion of what clients are interested in 
`` Carl has a much higher degree of intimacy with his clients than is ordinary for an agency his size . 
When the announcement came out , `` I picked up the phone and said , ` Why do n't you come to us 
Before becoming a consultant in 1974 , Mr. Achenbaum was a senior executive at J. Walter Thompson Co 
Ad agencies typically earned a straight 15 % commission ; if a client spent $ 100 million on TV time , the agency made $ 15 million 
Ad agencies typically earned a straight 15 % commission ; if a client spent $ 100 million on TV time , the agency made $ 15 million . 
More recently , he negotiated `` indemnification '' clauses in which an ad agency in some cases must pay a client 
He spent most of his career formulating marketing strategies , but became best-known for chipping away at ad agency compensation . 
But Mr. Achenbaum pioneered negotiated fees , which often worked out to less than 15 % . More recently , he negotiated `` indemnification '' clauses in which an ad agency in some cases must pay a client if it drops the account . 
Mr. Achenbaum helped Morgan in its recent agency search 
Yesterday , Mr. Matthews , now a consultant with the Stamford , Conn. , firm Matthews & Johnston , quipped , `` I think he 'll be very good at that -LCB- new job -RCB- . 
During the takeover , Mr. Hahn said he would put his account up for review 
During the takeover , Mr. Hahn said he would put his account up for review if WPP 's bid were successful 
For years , the company 's ads were tied in with pitches for Cannon sheets or Martex towels , for example 
Mr. Mingo was chief executive officer of the Mingo Group , which he founded in 1977 
Prime Minister Lee Kuan Yew , Singapore 's leader and one of Asia 's leading statesmen for 30 years , recently announced his intention to retire next year 
The prime minister , whose hair is thinning and gray 
The prime minister , whose hair is thinning and gray and whose face has a perpetual pallor 
`` It took Zhao Ziyang -LRB- former premier and party chief -RRB- 10 years to build a team of economists who understood how the Western economies work 
`` That 's very sad for China and for Asia 
Asked if the Soviets , like Chinese officials , wo n't one day face a similar conflict between the desire to liberalize economically 
Asked if the Soviets , like Chinese officials , wo n't one day face a similar conflict between the desire to liberalize economically and yet retain political control , Mr. Lee said , `` I would think that the Soviets face a deeper dilemma 
Mikhail Gorbachev , he said , is ahead of China 's leaders in his awareness of the world . 
Asked if the Soviets , like Chinese officials , wo n't one day face a similar conflict between the desire to liberalize economically and yet retain political control , Mr. Lee said , `` I would think that the Soviets face a deeper dilemma because they have been more in blinkers than the Chinese -- I mean keeping their people cut off from the outside world . '' 
Regardless , he said , he still believes the Soviet Union , while falling far short of the efficiency of a Western economy , may well manage to improve considerably 
On Asia-Pacific prosperity : `` If America can keep up the present situation -- her markets open for another 15 years , with adjustments , and Japan can grow and not cut back , and so too , Korea , Taiwan , Hong Kong , Singapore , ASEAN , Australia and New Zealand 
On Asia-Pacific prosperity : `` If America can keep up the present situation -- her markets open for another 15 years , with adjustments 
In such an arrangement , `` all benefit , '' he said . 
`` And if the Europeans come in , they benefit too 
We think it is n't such a great burden , that it carries no stigma 
I really do not understand how it is that Filipinos feel so passionately involved in this father figure that they want to dispose of 
I really do not understand how it is that Filipinos feel so passionately involved in this father figure that they want to dispose of and 
They let me down 
I do n't feel down or done in 
I mean it is a normal adult relationship . 
`` But the Filipinos and the Americans , when I talk to them , there 's so much passion about Filipino manhood being diminished as a result of being squatted upon by the Americans and so on 
The occasional Englishman tries to put on airs 
It 's just comic 
Asked why so few nations seem to share his views of America , he said , `` Many people see it that way . 
To get the Khmer Rouge as part of a process for elections . 
And when they lose , then we can expect China to stop aid 
And when they lose 
The Chinese can not be seen to have made use of the Khmer Rouge 
Everything looked good 
Everything looked good as neurosurgeon Walter Levy and colleagues carefully cut away a woman 's spinal tumor at the Cleveland Clinic in 1978 . 
Besides holding the promise of safer spinal surgery , the probe could improve the diagnosis of brain and nerve disorders such as strokes and multiple sclerosis 
If positioned over the brain 's motor-control area , the hand-held electromagnets generate nerve impulses that zip down motor nerves and activate muscles , making , say , a finger twitch 
`` All we could do was tell a patient , ` squeeze my fingers as hard as you can 
`` Under the best circumstances such tests are subjective ; when a patient is unconscious , they do n't work at all 
In the 1960s , Mayo Clinic researchers developed magnetic devices to stimulate motor nerves in the hand and other limbs . 
The field took off in 1985 
Since then , at least two commercial versions have been put on the U.S. market 
`` We do n't feel we can use -LCB- the devices -RCB- routinely in surgery yet 
The devices could help indicate when surgery would help , says Charles Tator , a University of Toronto neurosurgeon . 
For example , paralyzed car-crash victims occasionally have some intact spinal tissues that , if preserved by emergency surgery , enable partial recovery 
For example , paralyzed car-crash victims occasionally have some intact spinal tissues that , if preserved by emergency surgery , enable partial recovery . 
But such operations typically are n't performed 
`` The cost -LCB- of magnetic stimulators -RCB- would seem like peanuts 
Scientists caution there is a chance the magnet technique might spark seizures in epileptics . 
The main sensation , besides feeling like a puppet jerked with invisible strings , is `` like a rap on the head 
One apparent side effect is a minor increase in a brain hormone . 
At the University of Kentucky , a team led by Dean Currier , a physical therapy researcher , is testing the stimulators in conjunction with electric shocks to induce muscle contractions to help prevent wasting of thigh muscles after knee surgery . 
The devices might someday serve as temporary pacemakers or restarters for stopped hearts , says Dr. Tacker , whose prototype was dubbed the `` Tacker whacker . '' 
Similar studies are expected to reveal how stroke patients ' brains regroup -- a first step toward finding ways to bolster that process and speed rehabilitation . 
When the jolt is timed just right , the subjects do n't recall seeing the first group of letters 
Joint-research programs have proliferated 
Du Pont Co. , Hewlett-Packard Co. and Los Alamos National Laboratory said they signed a three-year , $ 11 million agreement to collaborate on superconductor research . 
They pay interest only for 115 months 
As part of the transaction , J.C. Penney will sell a portion of its credit-card receivables to its JCP Receivables Inc. unit 
Here in this new center for Japanese assembly plants just across the border from San Diego , turnover is dizzying , infrastructure shoddy , bureaucracy intense . Even after-hours drag ; `` karaoke '' bars , where Japanese revelers sing over recorded music , are prohibited by Mexico 's powerful musicians union . 
Keeping the Japanese happy will be one of the most important tasks facing conservative leader Ernesto Ruffo 
Mexico , with its desperate need for investment , and Japan , with its huge budget surplus , would seem like a perfect match . 
He already has finagled a $ 2 billion loan from the Japanese government . 
For the PRI to stand a chance , Mr. Salinas has to press on with an economic program that so far has succeeded in lowering inflation and providing moderate economic growth . 
`` When the fruit is ripe , it falls from the tree by itself 
`` There seems to be a presumption in some sectors of -LRB- Mexico 's -RRB- government that there is a lot of Japanese money waiting behind the gate 
Mexico is sending a number of missions to Japan looking for a major breakthrough investment in telecommunications , petrochemicals or tourism . 
Mexico is sending a number of missions to Japan looking for a major breakthrough investment in telecommunications , petrochemicals or tourism . 
It created special 20-year trusts to allow foreigners 100 % ownership in some once-closed industries . 
He could develop the beach through a trust 
He could develop the beach through a trust , but instead is trying have his grandson become a naturalized Mexican 
`` We must do more to help the Japanese here in Baja 
Plant operators are heartened by Mr. Ruffo 's pledge to cut corruption associated with the ruling party officials . 
Half of those polled see the currency trending lower over the next three months 
Those with a bullish view see the dollar trading up near 1.9000 marks and 145 yen 
A number of those polled predict the dollar will slip 
Robert White , a vice president and manager of corporate trade at First Interstate of California , agreed with that view and predicted the U.S. federal funds rate will drop to between 7 3\/4 % and 8 % within 60 days from its current level at 8 13\/16 % . 
In last month 's survey , a number of currency analysts predicted the dollar would be pressured by a narrowing of interest rate differentials between the U.S. and West Germany . 
Several other European central banks , notably in Britain , followed the West German Bundesbank 's lead by raising their own key rates . 
After a surprisingly sharp widening in the U.S. August merchandise trade deficit -- $ 10.77 billion from a revised $ 8.24 billion in July and well above expectations -- and a startling 190-point drop in stock prices on Oct. 13 , the Federal Reserve relaxed short-term interest rates , knocking fed funds from around 9 % to 8 3\/4 % . 
But predictions that central banks of the Group of Seven -LRB- G-7 -RRB- major industrial nations would continue their massive dollar sales went astray 
Tomoshige Kakita , senior deputy manager in the treasury department of Mitsui Bank Ltd. in Tokyo , suggested that uncertainty about U.S. stocks and bonds has made Japanese investors leery of holding those securities in the near term 
Tomoshige Kakita , senior deputy manager in the treasury department of Mitsui Bank Ltd. in Tokyo , suggested that uncertainty about U.S. stocks and bonds has made Japanese investors leery of holding those securities in the near term , thus damping dollar demand . 
But , Mr. Kakita added , once U.S. equities regain some stability , players will move back into dollar-denominated investments , especially Treasury bonds 
But , Mr. Kakita added , once U.S. equities regain some stability , players will move back into dollar-denominated investments , especially Treasury bonds , whose value rises 
`` If 135 is broken , some panic will be seen 
Jens-Uwe Fischer , a senior trader at Manufacturers Hanover Trust Co. in Frankfurt , said he expects the dollar to recover within the next three months to around 1.88 marks 
He said he expects U.S. interest rates to decline , dragging the dollar down to around 1.80 marks by the end of January after a short-lived dash to 1.87 marks by the end of November . 
Mr. Owen of Kleinwort Benson suggested that the new chancellor , John Major , will take a tough line in his autumn statement later this month , helping to underpin the pound . 
West Germany will repeal the unpopular turnover tax on securities transactions as of Jan. 1 , 1991 , Economics Minister Helmut Haussmann said . 
The securities-turnover tax has been long criticized by the West German financial community 
The tax has raised less than one billion marks -LRB- $ 545.3 million -RRB- annually in recent years 
In the interview , Mr. Haussmann did n't specify the amount of revenue the government will lose 
The new date means that the tax will be officially repealed before the end of the current parliamentary term at the end of 1990 and guarantees its abolition 
Earlier this year , President Bush made a final `` take-it-or-leave it '' offer on the minimum wage : an increase to $ 4.25 an hour over three years 
It is compromises such as this that convince Washington 's liberals that if they simply stay the course , this administration will stray from its own course on this and other issues 
Chemical said Steven Edelson resigned recently 
The head trader of Chemical Banking Corp. 's interest-rate options group has left the company , following valuation errors that resulted in a $ 33 million charge against its third-quarter results . 
A Chemical spokeswoman said the second-quarter charge was `` not material 
A Chemical spokeswoman said the second-quarter charge was `` not material 
While the incidents involving interest-rate options and forward-rate agreements are unrelated , some observers say they echo a 1987 incident in which Bankers Trust New York Corp. restated the value of its foreign exchange options contracts downward by about $ 80 million 
These complex products require close monitoring 
When Thomas W. Wathen went big league last year , he acquired a treasure-trove of Americana along with a well-known but ailing security business : Pinkerton 's Inc 
There was a wanted poster offering `` Rewards for the Arrest of Express and Train Robbers Frank James and Jesse W. James '' and the original Pinkerton 's logo with an open eye and the inscription `` We Never Sleep , '' which inspired the phrase `` private eye . '' 
Then there were two gold watches once owned by Allan Pinkerton , who founded the company in Chicago in 1850 . 
The ever-optimistic Mr. Wathen has learned that while acquiring a big brand-name company can be a shortcut to growth , it can also bring a host of unforeseen problems 
The ever-optimistic Mr. Wathen has learned that while acquiring a big brand-name company can be a shortcut to growth 
Over the next 20 years , California Plant Protection opened 125 offices around the country . 
Yet although California Plant Protection was netting bigger and bigger clients -- the firm provided security for the 1984 Summer Olympics in Los Angeles -- it still did n't have the name recognition of Pinkerton 's 
Yet although California Plant Protection was netting bigger and bigger clients -- the firm provided security for the 1984 Summer Olympics in Los Angeles -- it still did n't have the name recognition of Pinkerton 's . 
So when American Brands Inc. decided to sell the unit in 1987 as part of a divestiture of its food and security industries operations , Mr. Wathen saw a chance to accomplish several objectives 
He decided he could easily merge Pinkerton 's operations with his own 
He decided he could easily merge Pinkerton 's operations with his own while slashing overhead costs 
He could acquire a staff of loyal Pinkerton 's employees , many of whom had spent their entire careers with the firm , he could eliminate a competitor 
So when American Brands Inc. decided to sell the unit in 1987 as part of a divestiture of its food and security industries operations , Mr. Wathen saw a chance to accomplish several objectives . 
Mr. Wathen also relished the chance to demonstrate an entrepreneur like himself , who 'd spent his whole career in the security business , could run Pinkerton 's better than an unfocused conglomerate or investment banker . 
If we had , it might have scared us off 
Pinkerton 's had locked itself into low-price contracts to win new business , with no hope of profitability until the contracts expired , he adds . 
One office had 19 people doing the work of three 
Even after divesting itself of $ 120 million of unprofitable business , the new Pinkerton 's will have sales of about $ 610 million this year and operating profit roughly double the industry average of 2%-3 % of sales 
He began by closing 120 of the combined companies ' 260 offices in two months , eliminating about 31 % of the company 's 2,500-person adminstrative staff , including more than 100 sales positions . He shut down the company 's tony New York headquarters . 
Next , Mr. Wathen raised Pinkerton 's rates , which were 75-cents-an-hour lower than California Plant Protection 's average rate of around $ 8.63 . 
Mr. Wathen , who says Pinkerton 's had a loss of nearly $ 8 million in 1987 under American Brands , boasts that he 's made Pinkerton 's profitable again . 
Last year , earnings of the combined companies did n't cover debt service 
`` We would n't have had to refinance 
This year , Mr. Wathen says the firm will be able to service debt 
`` We have previously had discussions with representatives of Pinkerton 's Inc. concerning the -LCB- sale of the company -RCB- 
`` As this is now a litigation matter , we have no further comment 
The suit alleges that American Brands misrepresented the financial condition of Pinkerton 's before the sale , failed to disclose pending lawsuits and material contracts in which Pinkerton 's was in default , had n't registered the Pinkerton 's name and trademark in the United Kingdom and did n't tell California Plant Protection about some labor controversies . 
The suit alleges that American Brands misrepresented the financial condition of Pinkerton 's before the sale , failed to disclose pending lawsuits and material contracts in which Pinkerton 's was in default , had n't registered the Pinkerton 's name and trademark in the United Kingdom and did n't tell California Plant Protection about some labor controversies . 
The key to Pinkerton 's future will be sticking to what it does best -- being a security company , says Mr. Wathen . 
Although investigations now account for only about 5 % of Pinkerton 's total revenue , that side of the business has traditionally been the more `` glamorous '' of the two and it carries historical and sentimental value 
Although investigations now account for only about 5 % of Pinkerton 's total revenue , that side of the business has traditionally been the more `` glamorous '' of the two 
Farm prices in October edged up 0.7 % from September 
Broiler prices fell 6.5 cents in October to 30.6 cents a pound 
Hogs rose $ 3.40 to $ 46.80 a hundredweight in October 
Hogs rose $ 3.40 to $ 46.80 a hundredweight in October , while beef cattle slipped 80 cents to $ 67.40 for each hundred pounds 
Soybeans averaged $ 5.28 a bushel , down 42 cents from September ; corn averaged $ 2.20 , down seven cents 
Sea Containers said the offer will proceed 
Last week , housing lobbies persuaded Congress to raise the ceiling to $ 124,875 , making FHA loans more accessible to the well-to-do . 
But it does that at the cost of deepening the taxpayer 's exposure 
But it does that at the cost of deepening the taxpayer 's exposure if the FHA is forced to pay for more loans going sour . 
Because a purchaser can use an FHA loan to finance all points and closing costs , the FHA can wind up lending more than a house is worth 
If housing prices continue to fall , many borrowers would be better off walking away from their homes and leaving taxpayers with the losses 
A group of 27 Senators has written Mr. Kemp urging him to reject Cranston-Mitchell and focus on programs that empower the poor rather than create vast new government obligations . 
But even if he agrees , Mr. Kemp does n't write the nation 's housing law 
But even if he agrees , Mr. Kemp does n't write the nation 's housing law -- Congress does . 
The Sun concluded that Mr. Pierce is only part of the problem 
`` If HUD is to be reformed , '' it concluded , Members of Congress will `` have to start looking into , and doing something about , the practices of their colleagues 
Proponents of expanding FHA programs say they merely want to help home buyers who are frozen out of high-priced markets . 
Jack Kemp has submitted a package of reforms 
A final agreement has not been signed 
The Soviet legislature approved a 1990 budget yesterday that halves its huge deficit with cuts in defense spending and capital outlays 
Soviet President Mikhail S. Gorbachev told the legislators they had made a good start 
If the government can stick with them , it will be able to halve this year 's 120 billion ruble -LRB- US$ 193 billion -RRB- deficit 
At times I sequester my mind 
At times I sequester my mind When I must think with precision , Detached from all other thoughts 
At times I sequester my mind When I must think with precision , Detached from all other thoughts While trying to reach a decision . 
Agreement on these points is a long way from a specific program , and nobody expects the U.S. to rush toward radical restructuring of the health-care system . 
Because the Bush administration is n't taking the initiative on health issues , business executives are dealing with congressional Democrats who champion health-care revision 
At 11.1 % of gross national product , U.S. health costs already are the highest in the world . 
Labor is upset 
`` They hope they can buy some government cost discipline 
`` No magic bullet will be discovered next year , an election year , '' says Rep. Fortney Stark -LRB- D. , Calif . -RRB- 
Any major attempt to revamp the health-care system is likely to trigger opposition from politically powerful interest groups , particularly the American Medical Association , and perhaps from the public as well 
The NAM embraces efforts , which both the administration and the medical profession have begun , to measure the effectiveness of medical treatments 
Advocates hope that such standards will improve treatment 
This involves trade-offs 
The NAM embraces efforts , which both the administration and the medical profession have begun , to measure the effectiveness of medical treatments and then to draft medical-practice guidelines . 
The AFL-CIO also embraces treatment guidelines . 
Salt Lake City-based First Security , with $ 5.4 billion in assets , said the agreement is subject to shareholder and regulatory approval 
Takeover stock traders noted that with the junk-bond market in disarray , Georgia-Pacific 's bid is an indication of where the takeover game is headed : namely , industrial companies can continue bidding for one another 
`` The way the world is shaping up , the strategic buyer is going to be the rule 
The combined company would have had 1988 sales of $ 13.1 billion . 
A Georgia-Pacific acquisition of Nekoosa would create the largest U.S. forest-products company . 
At a time when most analysts and industry consultants say pulp and paper prices are heading for a dive , adding capacity and debt could squeeze Georgia-Pacific 
At a time when most analysts and industry consultants say pulp and paper prices are heading for a dive , adding capacity and debt could squeeze Georgia-Pacific if the industry declines more than the company expects . 
Moreover , any unexpected strengthening of the dollar would hurt Georgia-Pacific 
One person familiar with Georgia-Pacific said the acquisition would more than double the company 's debt of almost $ 3 billion . 
It also could be a drag on Georgia-Pacific earnings 
That means goods could be manufactured closer to customers , saving shipping costs , he said . 
Moreover , production runs would be longer , cutting inefficiencies from adjusting machinery between production cycles . 
And Georgia-Pacific could save money in selling pulp 
And Georgia-Pacific could save money in selling pulp , because the company uses its own sales organization 
Mr. Hahn said Georgia-Pacific has accounted in its strategy for a `` significant downturn '' in the pulp and paper industry , an event that he said would temporarily dilute earnings . 
Georgia-Pacific owns 349,900 Nekoosa shares and would need federal antitrust clearance to buy more than $ 15 million worth . 
The company 's chairman , Mr. Laidig , and a group of advisers met at the offices of Wachtel Lipton Rosen & Katz , a law firm specializing in takeover defense . 
Georgia-Pacific 's advisers are Wasserstein , Perella & Co. , which stands to receive a $ 15 million fee 
Nekoosa 's poison pill allows shareholders to vote to rescind it 
Nekoosa 's poison pill allows shareholders to vote to rescind it , but Georgia-Pacific is n't likely to pursue such a course immediately 
Canadian Pacific could n't be reached for comment 
Some analysts argued that there wo n't be a flurry of takeovers 
Some analysts argued that there wo n't be a flurry of takeovers because the industry 's continuing capacity-expansion program is eating up available cash . 
`` This is a one-time event , '' said Lawrence Ross of PaineWebber Inc. , referring to the Georgia-Pacific bid . 
He added : `` Every paper company management has to be saying to itself , ` Before someone comes after me , I 'm going to go after somebody 
Prudential-Bache 's Mr. Rodgers said he does n't see the industry 's capacity-expansion program hindering takeover activity . 
Moreover , `` it 's a lot cheaper and quicker to buy a plant than to build one . '' 
But many analysts believe that , given the attractiveness of paper companies ' cash flows , as well as the frantic consolidation of the paper industry in Europe , there will be at least a few more big hostile bids for U.S. companies within the next several months . The buyers , these analysts added , could be either foreign or other U.S. concerns . 
Since the most-recent wave of friendly takeovers was completed in the U.S. in 1986 , there have been more than 100 mergers and acquisitions within the European paper industry 
Private industry 's labor costs rose 1.2 % in the third quarter , matching the second-quarter pace 
`` One would have thought this would have happened two or three years ago 
It is a considerably delayed reaction 
In the 12 months ended in September , wages and salaries of private-sector workers rose 4.4 % 
Labor costs are climbing at a far more rapid pace in the health care industry than in other industries . 
Labor costs continued to rise more rapidly in service industries than in goods-producing industries , the report showed . 
StatesWest Airlines , Phoenix , Ariz. , said it withdrew its offer to acquire Mesa Airlines 
StatesWest Airlines , Phoenix , Ariz. , said it withdrew its offer to acquire Mesa Airlines because the Farmington , N.M. , carrier did n't respond to its offer by the close of business yesterday , a deadline StatesWest had set for a response . 
StatesWest had proposed acquiring Mesa for $ 7 a share and one share of a new series of StatesWest 6 % convertible preferred stock it values at $ 3 a share . 
A shiny new takeover deal sparked a big rally in stock prices , which buoyed the dollar . 
Prices of other paper makers rose sharply 
Some traders point out that as the big brokerage firms back out of program trading for their own accounts or for clients , opportunities increase for others to engage in the controversial practice 
Unless the Federal Reserve eases interest rates soon to stimulate the economy , profits could remain disappointing 
Yesterday 's major economic news -- a 0.2 % rise in the September index of leading economic indicators -- had little impact on financial markets . 
If the national survey confirms a pickup in the manufacturing sector , it could further depress bond prices while bolstering stock prices and the dollar 
If the national survey confirms a pickup in the manufacturing sector , it could further depress bond prices 
The rally notwithstanding , there are plenty of worries about the short-term course of stock prices . 
Although the Treasury is expected to announce details of its November quarterly refunding operation today , the Nov. 79 schedule could be delayed unless Congress and the president act soon to lift the nation 's debt ceiling 
Although the Treasury is expected to announce details of its November quarterly refunding operation today , the Nov. 79 schedule could be delayed 
The company did n't specify reasons for the strong earnings gain . 
The campaign , a patriotic celebration of the 200th anniversary of the Bill of Rights , does n't mention cigarettes or smoking ; cigarette ads have been prohibited on television since 1971 . 
But even before it begins , the campaign is drawing fire from anti-smoking advocates 
The company 's research suggests that its name recognition among most consumers remains unusually low 
`` If they think well of the company through our support of the Bill of Rights , it follows they 'll think well of our products 
Although Philip Morris typically tries to defend the rights of smokers with free-choice arguments , `` this has nothing to do with cigarettes , nor will it ever 
Although Philip Morris typically tries to defend the rights of smokers with free-choice arguments , `` this has nothing to do with cigarettes 
Although Philip Morris typically tries to defend the rights of smokers with free-choice arguments , `` this has nothing to do with cigarettes , nor will it ever , '' the spokesman says . 
`` I 'm outraged 
`` I 'm outraged because this company is portraying itself at the heart of American culture and political freedom 
`` I 'm outraged because this company is portraying itself at the heart of American culture and political freedom 
Many marketers say Philip Morris 's approach will be effective 
If you can do that and at the same time send a message that supports your business , that 's brilliant 
RJR Nabisco Inc. and American Brands Inc. say they have no plans to follow Philip Morris 's lead . 
The Nasdaq Composite Index surged 4.26 , or about 0.94 % , to 455.63 . 
The Big Board 's composite index was up more than 1.4 % 
Microsoft added 2 1\/8 to 81 3\/4 
Technology stocks woke up , helping the over-the-counter market rise from its recent doldrums . 
Technology stocks bore the brunt of the OTC market 's recent sell-off 
Technology stocks bore the brunt of the OTC market 's recent sell-off , and traders say it 's natural that they rebound sharply 
Technology stocks bore the brunt of the OTC market 's recent sell-off , and traders say it 's natural that they rebound sharply now that the market has turned around . 
`` They are always the first to be sold 
`` They are always the first to be sold when people are taking profits 
Analysts say rallies in the group historically have lifted the market 
Analysts say rallies in the group historically have lifted the market , while weakness in the sector often sank unlisted share prices broadly . 
The stocks have been pummeled repeatedly by inventory gluts and disappointing earnings 
The technology sector of the Dow Jones Equity Market Index has risen only about 6.24 % this year 
While the composite index lost less than a third of its year-to-date gains in the market 's recent decline , the technology group 's gains were more than halved 
While computer stocks have taken the biggest hit from the slowdown in the industry , many software and semiconductor stocks have continued to outperform the market 
Microsoft is up more than 50 % this year 
The group is divided primarily between software , semiconductors and computers . 
The technology group is also split between large companies and small , with the biggest stocks trading as blue-chip issues in the institutional marketplace 
The brokerage firm tracks technology stocks with its Technology Index , which appreciated only 10.59 % in the first nine months of this year . 
The brokerage firm tracks technology stocks with its Technology Index , which appreciated only 10.59 % in the first nine months of this year . 
George Jennison , who trades bank stocks for Shearson Lehman Hutton , said the stocks tend to fall behind 
George Jennison , who trades bank stocks for Shearson Lehman Hutton , said the stocks tend to fall behind because they are n't traded as much as many other issues . 
Yesterday , bank stocks lagged behind the overall OTC market . 
Jaguar topped the most-active list 
Britain said it would waive its `` golden share '' in the luxury auto maker 
It surged 2 3\/4 to 6 on volume of more than 1.7 million shares 
Priam Corp. lost 5\/32 to 3\/32 
Dycom Industries gained 3\/4 to 16 3\/4 
A permanent smoking ban on virtually all domestic airline routes won approval from the House 
The smoking prohibition remains attached to a $ 27.1 billion transportation bill that must still overcome budget obstacles in Congress . 
On a 394-21 roll call , the House adopted the underlying transportation measure . 
But the bill still faces budget questions 
The additional spending pushes the measure more than $ 2 billion above its prescribed budget ceiling 
No single bill this year includes more discretionary spending for domestic programs 
The current ceiling on home loans insured by the Federal Housing Administration is increased to $ 124,875 during fiscal 1990 . 
And in anticipation of increased lending , the cap on FHA loan guarantees would rise to approximately $ 73.8 billion . 
This provision met early and strong resistance from investment bankers worried about disruptions in their clients ' portfolios . 
The estimated $ 1.8 billion for the space station would be double last year 's level 
A string of costly projects , including the high-speed national aerospace plane and the advanced communications technology satellite , would continue to be developed within these limits . 
And while imposing a statutory cap of $ 1.6 billion on future spending , the bill would give NASA $ 30 million for the start-up of the CRAF-Cassini mission , a successor to the Voyager space probe 
A permanent smoking ban on virtually all domestic airline routes won approval from the House , which separately sent to President Bush a nearly $ 67 billion fiscal 1990 bill including the first construction funds for the space station . 
Separately , the National Science Foundation is promised a 7.7 % increase to bring its appropriations to $ 2.07 billion . 
And while pursuing these initiatives , Congress and the White House are squeezed too by steady increases -- $ 551 million -- in veteran 's medical care 
The result is that all sides resort to sleight of hand to make room for competing housing and environmental programs 
Senior members of the House Budget Committee are reduced in frustration to raising doomed parliamentary obstacles to individual bills 
`` It 's hard to get the administration 's attention on anything 
Senate Appropriations Committee Chairman Robert Byrd -LRB- D. , W.Va . -RRB- strongly resisted deeper cuts sought by the House . 
Sen. Pete Domenici -LRB- R. , N.M. -RRB- , the ranking Republican on the Senate Budget Committee , used his influence to preserve more than $ 132,000 in subsidies for air service to Sante Fe , 
GP Express , an independent airline serving much of Nebraska , estimates that nearly 40 % of its revenues come from the subsidies that , in some cases , exceed the cost of a ticket . 
For example , a passenger can fly from Chardon , Neb. , to Denver for as little as $ 89 to $ 109 , according to prices quoted by the company . 
The House action yesterday came 
The compromise bill passed the House last week but has now provoked jurisdictional fights with the Senate Foreign Relations Committee , which jealously protects its prerogatives over operations at the State Department . 
House and Senate appropriators sought to establish a Nov. 30 deadline after which their bill would become the last word on how funds are distributed . 
But on a 53-45 roll call this provision was stripped from the bill last night 
Since the value of its assets was n't known , analysts were free to pick a number 
Throw in its railroad , minerals , pipeline and oil assets 
Throw in its railroad , minerals , pipeline and oil assets , he and others argued , and the Chicago-based conglomerate should be worth 30 a share . 
With real estate experts Olympia & York and Samuel Zell 's Itel owning close to 40 % of Santa Fe 's stock , management was under pressure -- in a favored phrase of Wall Street -- to quickly `` maximize values . '' 
But value , it turns out , is only what a buyer will pay . 
Since the real estate unit also includes debt , the imputed value of the real estate itself is close to $ 3 billion 
If the railroad is valued on a private market basis -- at the same multiple of earnings as in the recent sale of CNW -- it would have a value of $ 1.65 billion 
A compromise between bulls and bears puts remaining assets and cash -- including its 44 % stake in its publicly traded pipeline -- at $ 2 billion . 
Santa Fe also has $ 3.7 billion in debt . 
In addition , its railroad lost a $ 750 million antitrust suit , which is on appeal 
That nets out to about $ 17 a share for the company on a private market basis . 
But Santa Fe , currently trading at 18 7\/8 , is n't likely to realize private market values by selling assets 
But Santa Fe , currently trading at 18 7\/8 , is n't likely to realize private market values by selling assets , because the tax against it would be onerous . 
Robert D. Krebs , Santa Fe 's chairman , argues that since its businesses are valued in different ways , `` the sum of the parts may be greater than the whole 
Robert D. Krebs , Santa Fe 's chairman , argues that since its businesses are valued in different ways , `` the sum of the parts may be greater than the whole . '' 
The spinoff argument , after all , reverses the current notion that assets are worth more to private buyers than to public shareholders . 
Salomon Brothers says , `` We believe the real estate properties would trade at a discount 
Salomon Brothers says , `` We believe the real estate properties would trade at a discount ... after the realty unit is spun off ... . 
Mr. Schneider of Bear Stearns says he is recalculating the worth of the company 's assets 
He adds : `` If for any reason I do n't have the values 
Her recent report classifies the stock as a `` hold . '' 
But it appears to be the sort of hold one makes 
Chairman Krebs says the California pension fund is getting a bargain price that would n't have been offered to others . 
Since most of the unit 's real estate is in California , the pension fund will be a useful political ally in a state where development is often held hostage to zoning boards 
Since most of the unit 's real estate is in California , the pension fund will be a useful political ally in a state where development is often held hostage to zoning boards . 
In other words : The real estate has a higher value than the pending deal suggests . And , as Mr. Zell says , with Itel and O&Y on the unit 's board , the real estate will be run by `` a very unusual group '' to say the least . 
It is possible then that Santa Fe 's real estate -- even in a state imperiled by earthquakes -- could , one day , fetch a king 's ransom . 
But as Drexel analyst Linda Dunn notes , its properties will be developed over 15 to 20 years . 
Intelogic Trace Inc. said it is exploring alternatives to maximize shareholder value , including the possible sale of the company . 
Intelogic was spun off from Datapoint four years ago 
The results surpassed analysts ' forecasts , which averaged around # 200 million 
Sales increased 11 % to # 2.5 billion from # 2.25 billion 
Sales in North America and the Far East were inflated by acquisitions , rising 62 % to # 278 million . 
Federal and state thrift examiners said they saw evidence of criminal wrongdoing in the collapse of Lincoln Savings & Loan Association 
In a riveting day of hearings before the House Banking Committee , the examiners described finding shredded documents , a mysterious Panamanian subsidiary , millions of dollars funneled into a Swiss bank , and a complacent attitude by Mr. Wall 's deputies , one of whom was portrayed as acting more like a public-relations man for the thrift than a federal regulator . 
Another federal examiner , John Meek , said Lincoln 's principal owner , Charles Keating Jr. , and his family drew off at least $ 34 million from the thrift in salaries , bonuses and proceeds from securities sales 
He said the evidence pointed to wrongdoing by Mr. Keating `` and others 
He said the evidence pointed to wrongdoing by Mr. Keating `` and others , '' although he did n't allege any specific violation . 
He said 30 % of the loans he sampled were `` dead meat on the day they were made . '' 
The state examiner also said supervisors of a parallel federal examination seemed so reluctant to demand write-downs of Lincoln 's bad loans that he immediately grew suspicious . 
He called the sour loans `` appalling '' and added , `` You opened the file up 
Federal officials seized the association in April 
Federal officials seized the association in April , a day after the parent corporation entered bankruptcy-law proceedings . 
Federal officials seized the association in April , a day after the parent corporation entered bankruptcy-law proceedings . The government later brought a $ 1.1 billion fraud suit against Mr. Keating and others . 
Rep. Gonzalez has complained that regulators waited far too long , however , ignoring a recommendation from regional officials to place Lincoln into receivership 
State thrift examiner Eugene Stelzer said he found the chief federal examiner Steve Scott to be totally uninterested in one allegedly fraudulent series of transactions . 
Mr. Meek said that a day or two before Lincoln 's parent entered bankruptcy proceedings , he and other examiners saw `` a truck with a sign on it that said it was from the ` Document Destruction Center 
They shredded it 
The big questions are whether the increase , effective Jan. 1 , 1990 , will stick 
The increase is on the base price , which is already being discounted by virtually all steel producers . 
A spokesman for LTV Steel , which is a unit of Dallas-based LTV Corp. , noted that steel prices , adjusted for inflation , increased only 1.7 % between 1981 and the fourth quarter of 1988 
At the same time , steelmakers are trying to invest more to modernize technology and make themselves more competitive . 
At the same time , steelmakers are trying to invest more to modernize technology and make themselves more competitive . 
But analysts say the company is also trying to prevent further price drops . 
Mr. Marcus believes spot steel prices will continue to fall through early 1990 
Mr. Marcus believes spot steel prices will continue to fall through early 1990 and then reverse themselves . 
He is n't convinced , though , that the price decline reflects falling demand 
He is n't convinced , though , that the price decline reflects falling demand because the world economy remains relatively strong . 
And while customers such as steel service centers are continuing to reduce inventories through the fourth quarter , they eventually will begin stocking up again 
Steelmakers announced a round of base-price increases last year , but began offering sizable discounts over the summer . 
The Treasury plans to raise $ 2.3 billion in new cash with the sale Monday of about $ 16 billion in short-term bills to redeem $ 13.71 billion in maturing bills . 
However , the Treasury said it will postpone the auction 
If , by that time , the network reaches 14 million homes , the contract will be renewed for five more years 
Twenty years later , two California academics , Stanley Cohen and Herbert Boyer , made `` recombinant '' DNA , transplanting a toad 's gene into bacteria 
When Boyer met Robert Swanson , an M.I.T.-trained chemist-turned-entrepreneur in 1976 , they saw dollar signs 
The next to be cloned , human insulin , had market potential 
At the time , Genentech had only one profitable year behind it -LRB- a modest $ 116,000 on revenue of $ 2.6 million in 1979 -RRB- and no product of its own on the market . 
The trip from the test tube was not without snags . 
Boyer and Cohen , for instance , both still university researchers , had to be talked into applying for a patent on their gene-splicing technique 
Boyer and Cohen , for instance , both still university researchers , had to be talked into applying for a patent on their gene-splicing technique 
Boyer and Cohen , for instance , both still university researchers , had to be talked into applying for a patent on their gene-splicing technique -- and then the Patent Office refused to grant it . 
The portfolio unit of the French bank group Credit Lyonnais told stock market regulators that it bought 43,000 shares of Cie. de Navigation Mixte , apparently to help fend off an unwelcome takeover bid for the company . 
Navigation Mixte 's chairman had suggested that friendly institutions were likely to buy its stock 
In addition to Unocal 's 153,000 barrel-a-day refinery near Lemont , Ill. , the new venture would control 17 distribution terminals , a lubricating-oil blending and packaging plant , and 131 company-owned Unocal service stations . 
Senate leaders traded proposals aimed at speeding action on legislation to narrow the deficit and raise the federal government 's debt limit 
Democrats want the tax provision to be a separate bill , subject to the usual procedural obstacles . 
Last night , after meeting with Mr. Bush and administration officials at the White House , Mr. Dole proposed streamlining the fiscal 1990 deficit-reduction bill , now stalled in a House-Senate conference committee , and passing a long-term extension of the federal debt ceiling without any accompanying amendments 
While that could make it vulnerable to a veto by Mr. Bush , Democrats argue that a presidential rejection would give their party a valuable issue in next year 's congressional elections 
Pressed by Chairman Dan Rostenkowski -LRB- D. , Ill . -RRB- of the House Ways and Means Committee , Treasury Undersecretary Robert Glauber told a congressional hearing that the administration would give up its demand for the capital-gains tax cut 
The publishing concern said it retained the investment banking firm of Donaldson , Lufkin & Jenrette Securities Inc. to act as its financial adviser , assisting in the evaluation of various financial and strategic alternatives , including debt refinancing , raising capital , recapitalization , a merger or sale of the company . 
Stock prices surged 
Paper and forest-products stocks were especially strong 
The Dow Jones Industrial Average climbed 41.60 to 2645.08 
Traders said the buy programs came from very large institutional accounts 
Some 1,111 Big Board issues advanced in price 
Some 1,111 Big Board issues advanced in price and only 448 declined 
Standard & Poor 's 500-Stock Index climbed 5.29 to 340.36 , the Dow Jones Equity Market Index added 4.70 to 318.79 
Great Northern surged 20 1\/8 to 62 7\/8 , well above Georgia-Pacific 's offering price of $ 58 a share , amid speculation that other suitors for the company would surface 
The $ 3.18 billion bid , which had been rumored since last week , `` creates a better feeling that there 's value in the market at current levels and renews prospects for a hot tape , '' says A.C. Moore , director of research at Argus Research Corp . 
Traders and analysts alike said the market 's surge also reflected an easing of concerns about volatility because of moves by a number of brokerage firms to curtail or cease stock-index arbitrage . 
Traders and analysts alike said the market 's surge also reflected an easing of concerns about volatility because of moves by a number of brokerage firms to curtail or cease stock-index arbitrage . 
But traders also said arbitrage-related trading contributed to the market 's surge 
Georgia-Pacific fell 2 1\/2 to 50 7\/8 
Georgia-Pacific fell 2 1\/2 to 50 7\/8 , but most paper and forest-products stocks firmed 
Within the paper sector , Mead climbed 2 3\/8 to 38 3\/4 on 1.3 million shares , Union Camp rose 2 3\/4 to 37 3\/4 , Federal Paper Board added 1 3\/4 to 23 7\/8 , Bowater gained 1 1\/2 to 27 1\/2 , Stone Container rose 1 to 26 1\/8 
Pfizer gained 1 7\/8 to 67 5\/8 , Schering-Plough added 2 1\/4 to 75 3\/4 , Eli Lilly rose 1 3\/8 to 62 1\/8 
Pfizer gained 1 7\/8 to 67 5\/8 , Schering-Plough added 2 1\/4 to 75 3\/4 , Eli Lilly rose 1 3\/8 to 62 1\/8 and Upjohn firmed 3\/4 to 38 . 
Pennzoil is rumored to be accumulating a stake in Chevron in order to push for a revamping of the company ; investor Carl Icahn has recently increased his stake in USX 
Paramount Communications , which completed the $ 3.35 billion sale of its Associates Corp . financial-services unit to Ford Motor , gained 1 1\/8 to 55 7\/8 
BankAmerica climbed 1 3\/4 to 30 
The upgrade reflected the 20 % decline in shares of the bank 
The utility holding company said Hunter will receive 390,000 shares of a new series of Cilcorp convertible preferred stock with a face value of $ 39 million for the businesses . 
Cilcorp Inc. , Peoria , Ill. , said it agreed to acquire the environmental consulting and analytical service businesses of Hunter Environmental Services Inc. of Southport , Conn . 
While residents claimed a victory , military authorities said they had confiscated the equivalent of more than $ 1.5 million to make up for the unpaid taxes 
In East Berlin , Communist Party officials considered legalizing New Forum , the country 's largest opposition alliance 
The House approved a permanent smoking ban on nearly all domestic airline routes as part of a $ 27.1 billion transportation bill 
The House approved a permanent smoking ban on nearly all domestic airline routes as part of a $ 27.1 billion transportation bill that must still overcome budget obstacles in Congress . 
In Washington , the Senate voted to condemn Ortega 's threat to cancel the truce 
South Africa 's government dismissed demands by right-wing Conservatives , the nation 's main opposition party , for emergency talks on Pretoria 's recent tolerance of dissent . 
The State Department denied asylum to a Vietnamese man who escaped from his homeland by lashing himself to the rudder housing of a tanker for two days in monsoon seas . 
Ogden Projects Inc. said net income jumped to $ 6.6 million , or 18 cents a share , in the third quarter . 
Ogden Projects , which has interests in solid-waste recovery and hazardous-waste cleanup , said it has 13 facilities in operation , up from seven a year ago . 
Under attack by its own listed companies and powerful floor traders , the New York Stock Exchange is considering reinstituting a `` collar '' on program trading that it abandoned last year , according to people familiar with the Big Board . 
Big Board officials would n't comment publicly . 
Mr. Phelan said that the Big Board has been trying to deal quietly with the issue 
The exchange has a board meeting scheduled for tomorrow 
Mr. Phelan has n't been making public remarks in recent days 
Early last year , after a 140-point , one-day drop in the Dow , the Big Board instituted the collar 
Exchange officials emphasized that the Big Board is considering a variety of actions to deal with program trading . 
Shearson , which in September was the 11th-biggest program trader on the Big Board , had already suspended stock-index arbitrage for its own account . 
Mr. Phelan is an adroit diplomat who normally appears to be solidly in control of the Big Board 's factions . 
If bringing the message is a crime , I 'm guilty of it 
Mr. Phelan said that his predicting continued volatility is just `` how the world is . 
`` Each one has a different agenda . '' 
Many specialist firms resent the Big Board 's new `` basket '' product that allows institutions to buy or sell all stocks in the Standard & Poor 's 500-stock index in one shot . 
The basket product , while it has got off to a slow start , is being supported by some big brokerage firms -- another member of Mr. Phelan 's splintered constituency 
Mr. Phelan has had difficulty convincing the public that the Big Board is serious about curbing volatility 
Mr. Phelan has had difficulty convincing the public that the Big Board is serious about curbing volatility , especially as the exchange clearly relishes its role as the home for $ 200 billion in stock-index funds , which buy huge baskets of stocks to mimic popular stock-market indexes like the Standard & Poor 's 500 
The Big Board wants to keep such index funds from fleeing to overseas markets 
The Big Board wants to keep such index funds from fleeing to overseas markets 
Computers have made trading more rapid 
`` I think if you -LCB- can -RCB- speed things up , you can slow them down 
While volatility wo n't go away , he said , `` Volatility is greater than program trading 
What I 'm trying to say to people is , it 's proper to worry about program trading 
What I 'm trying to say to people is , it 's proper to worry about program trading , but it 's only a piece of the business . '' 
`` A lot of people would like to go back to 1970 , '' before program trading , he said . `` I would like to go back to 1970 . 
While volatility wo n't go away , he said , `` Volatility is greater than program trading . 
Indeed , Mr. Phelan said that if stock-market volatility persists , the U.S. may lose its edge as being the best place to raise capital 
`` If that continues , a significant number of -LCB- U.S. . -RCB- companies will go over there to raise money 
The program trading situation seems to have driven individual investors as well as others out of the market 
In coming days , when the Big Board formulates its responses to the program-trading problem , Mr. Phelan may take a more public role in the issue . 
We have a major problem 
The compromise proposal , ending a long impasse between Democrats and the president , would boost the minimum wage to $ 4.25 an hour by April 1991 from $ 3.35 now . 
The exchange , which abandoned such a `` collar '' last year 
Great Northern Nekoosa reacted coolly to Georgia-Pacific 's takeover bid of $ 58 a share , or $ 3.19 billion 
Stock prices rallied 
The Dow Jones industrials finished up 41.60 , at 2645.08 . 
Leading indicators rose a slight 0.2 % in September , a further indication the economy is slowing but without any clear sign of whether a recession looms . 
A bidding war for Jaguar became more likely 
LTV Steel is boosting prices of flat rolled steel products an average 3 % 
Southern 's Gulf Power unit paid $ 500,000 in fines 
USX 's profit dropped 23 % in the third quarter 
When U.S. trading began , Treasury bonds received an additional boost from news that sales of new single-family homes fell 14 % in September 
Economists said the report raised speculation that the economic slowdown could turn into a recession , which would pave the way for the Federal Reserve to lower interest rates . 
The association said its October index of economic activity rose to 51.6 % 
A reading below 50 % indicates that the manufacturing industry is slowing 
Bond prices fell 
New two-year notes ended unchanged 
Municipal bonds ended unchanged to as much as 1\/2 point higher 
In October 1979 , just days before the Federal Reserve raised interest rates , IBM offered $ 1 billion in debt securities 
The company `` ca n't be bullish 
Others said IBM might increase the size of the offering to as much as $ 1 billion 
`` I think as the pricing time arrives , the bonds will come a little richer and in a larger amount 
Treasury prices ended mixed in light trading . 
A spokesman for underwriters Salomon Brothers Inc. said Beatrice cut its high-yield offering to $ 251 million from a planned $ 350 million 
In the two-part offering , $ 151 million of senior subordinated reset notes were priced at 99.75 and carried a rate of 13 3\/4 % 
Since the recent deterioration of the junk-bond market , at least two other junk issuers have said they plan to scale back planned high-yield offerings 
William Carmichael , Beatrice chief financial officer , said favorable market conditions in September prompted the company to plan more debt than necessary . 
A month ago , when Beatrice first filed to sell debt , the company had planned to offer $ 200 million of its senior subordinated reset notes at a yield of 12 3\/4 % . 
By October , however , market conditions had deteriorated 
By October , however , market conditions had deteriorated and the reset notes were targeted to be offered at a yield of between 13 1\/4 % and 13 1\/2 % . 
`` We were oversold 
`` There were no -LCB- sell -RCB- lists 
West German bonds firmed a bit after Monday 's fall 
Germany 's 7 % bond due October 1999 was unchanged at 99.35 to yield 7.09 % 
British government bonds were little changed 
Britain 's benchmark 11 3\/4 % bond due 2003\/2007 rose 2\/32 to 111 1\/2 to yield 10.14 % 
Terms were n't disclosed 
The Financial Accounting Foundation voted 12-2 that FASB accounting rules supercede GASB rules in regard to utilities , hospitals , and colleges and universities owned by the government . 
After the GASB was founded in 1984 , 11 years after the FASB , the government-owned entities were supposed to follow FASB rules 
After the GASB was founded in 1984 , 11 years after the FASB , the government-owned entities were supposed to follow FASB rules 
The foundation vote is effective for the affected government entities with fiscal years that begin starting next Jan. 1 and makes the financial results of the hospitals , colleges and schools easier to compare with for-profit businesses . 
An Avery spokesman said that the loss was magnified by accounting adjustments 
In the August proxy material , Avery said that unless it sold Uniroyal , its ability to service debt would be hurt and Avery 's shareholder value would `` continue to erode 
In the August proxy material , Avery said that unless it sold Uniroyal , its ability to service debt would be hurt 
Until Avery makes an acquisition , Messrs. Peltz and May will waive their direct salaries and bonuses 
Until Avery makes an acquisition , Messrs. Peltz and May will waive their direct salaries and bonuses , the company said . 
Earlier this month , a group led by three of the company 's directors , Burt Sugarman , James M. Trotter III and Willam E. Trotter II , indicated it had a 45.2 % stake in the Louisville , Ky. , fast-food company 
Fujitsu Ltd. said it wants to withdraw its controversial one-yen bid to design a waterworks computer system for the city of Hiroshima . 
Eight companies submitted bids 
They said they wanted to wait for the outcome of any government investigation 
The agency said it monitored Newmark & Lewis 's advertised prices before and after the ad campaign , and found that the prices of at least 50 different items either increased or stayed the same . 
The consumer agency also disputed Newmark & Lewis 's continuing strategy of advertising `` new lower prices 
On Friday , when only a dozen common stocks hit 52-week highs on the New York Stock Exchange , five were gold-mining issues 
After all , gold prices usually soar 
After all , gold prices usually soar when inflation is high . 
Utility stocks , on the other hand , thrive on disinflation 
Utility stocks , on the other hand , thrive on disinflation , because the fat dividends utilities pay look more attractive 
At first glance , gold and utilities seem strange bedfellows . 
It 's as if investors , the past few days , are betting that something is going to go wrong 
If the stock market and the economy catch their breath and show that they 're on firmer footing , these stocks might well fall back 
If the stock market and the economy catch their breath and show that they 're on firmer footing , these stocks might well fall back . 
Indeed , that happened to some extent yesterday 
If the stock market and the economy catch their breath and show that they 're on firmer footing , these stocks might well fall back . 
Inventories are creeping up ; car inventories are already high 
Inventories are creeping up ; car inventories are already high , and big auto makers are idling plants . Takeover fever has cooled , removing a major horse from the market 's cart . Beyond that , money managers and analysts see other problems . 
`` If the Fed does not come to the rescue and produce lower short-term interest rates over the next 30 days , the market 's going to flounder 
Such defensive issues as food , tobacco , and drug stocks have been in favor for some time . 
Gold stocks are n't cheap on this basis , either , with many selling for 20 times earnings or more . Even utility stocks are n't all that inexpensive , at an average of 14 times earnings . 
If gold stocks and utilities continue to lead , it may signal that the market is in for rough times 
Last Friday , 96 stocks on the Big Board hit new 12-month lows . 
Mr. Stovall does n't expect an actual recession . 
You go into them 
He adds that gold stocks had been down so long they were `` ready for a bounce . '' 
`` The earning power -LCB- of gold mining companies -RCB- is restricted 
Robert Stovall , a veteran New York money manager and president of Stovall\/Twenty-First Securities , has money in both gold and utility issues . 
`` My outlook is for a decline of about 10 % in corporate profits '' in 1990 , she says . 
As for gold , she notes that it usually rises 
Even a small reduction is unacceptable 
The reason environmentalists `` do n't mind seeing new crises arise '' is 
If you are doubtful , consider for a moment that the Pomton Lakes Reservoirs in northern New Jersey , which supply the tristate area with drinking water , are riddled with toxic PCBs 
It 's time business leaders and the general public learn that mankind does not rule over this natural environment 
Mr. Melloan 's column was right on the money 
An important part of my effort has been to understand the science 
The last of the measurements reported was in 1985 
To me , this calls into question the validity of the Rowland-Molina theory and hence the whole chlorofluorocarbons replacement effort . 
When I expressed amazement that no one was undertaking a more current and credible UV-B study , I was urged to get back to the agenda topic 
Subsequently , I have learned that a private group , of which Du Pont is a part , is funding a modest program to continue data gathering at the Scotto report stations as well as to develop more sophisticated UVB measuring instruments . 
While recognizing that professional environmentalists may feel threatened , I intend to urge that UV-B be monitored whenever I can 
Although , like all scientific theories , it had its initial opponents , few experts question the connection now 
Mr. Melloan quotes Peter Teagan and invokes the name of Arthur D. Little Inc. to support his statement . In the September issue of Scientific American , Thomas E. Graedel , distinguished member of the technical staff at AT&T Bell Laboratories , and Paul J. Crutzen , director of the air chemistry division of the Max Planck Institute for Chemistry in Mainz , West Germany , wrote , `` It is now quite evident that chlorofluorocarbons , particularly CFC-11 and CFC-12 are the major culprits responsible for ozone depletion . '' 
It is insulting and demeaning to say that scientists `` needed new crises to generate new grants and contracts 
Nearly two months after saying it had been the victim of widespread fraud , MiniScribe Corp. disclosed it had a negative net worth of $ 88 million as of July 2 and hinted that it might be forced to file for protection under bankruptcy laws 
Nearly two months after saying it had been the victim of widespread fraud , MiniScribe Corp. disclosed it had a negative net worth of $ 88 million as of July 2 and hinted that it might be forced to file for protection under bankruptcy laws . 
Mr. Rifenburgh told industry analysts he is moving `` aggressively '' to negotiate out-of-court settlements on a number of shareholder lawsuits , but noted that the company could file for bankruptcy-law protection 
Mr. Rifenburgh told industry analysts he is moving `` aggressively '' to negotiate out-of-court settlements on a number of shareholder lawsuits , but noted that the company could file for bankruptcy-law protection if settlement talks fail . 
Mr. Rifenburgh also noted that 150 million shares of MiniScribe common stock were traded during the past three years 
MiniScribe has said that its financial results for the past three fiscal years would have to be restated because of the allegedly fraudulent accounting and marketing practices that inflated revenues and net income . 
The release of MiniScribe 's new balance sheet came 
Although it is not the first company to produce the thinner drives , which store information in personal computers , MiniScribe says it is the first with an 80-megabyte drive 
Others pointed out that at least four other disk-drive makers will have competitive one-inch drives early next year 
Others pointed out that at least four other disk-drive makers will have competitive one-inch drives early next year and that the industry already operates on very thin margins . 
MiniScribe filed a status report with the NASD on Monday , detailing its efforts to comply with listing requirements and requesting an extension of the exception , but has n't received a response . MiniScribe common closed yesterday at $ 1.9375 , down 6.25 cents , and has been trading for several months at less than $ 3 a share . 
The MiniScribe report outlines a host of allegedly fraudulent practices , including the shipment of bricks and defective disk drives that were booked as sales , and inventory forgeries in accounting records . 
An imaginative producer could easily have created a fast-moving and interesting piece about how Congress really works 
An imaginative producer could easily have created a fast-moving and interesting piece about how Congress really works -- and why voters in , say , West Virginia got a federally funded university project and building 
An imaginative producer could easily have created a fast-moving and interesting piece about how Congress really works -- and why voters in , say , West Virginia got a federally funded university project and building while voters in Arkansas did not . 
Traditional standards of relevancy and importance -LRB- `` is this something the public ought to know '' -RRB- will be replaced by a much broader test -LRB- `` is this something the public is interested in knowing '' -RRB- . 
And , since the public has always been fascinated by gossip and voyeurism , reporters and editors will strain for creative angles to justify the inclusion of collateral facts about private lives including sexual activities and domestic relationships , activities of family members , and all matters about mental and physical health 
And , since the public has always been fascinated by gossip and voyeurism , reporters and editors will strain for creative angles to justify the inclusion of collateral facts about private lives including sexual activities and domestic relationships , activities of family members , and all matters about mental and physical health . 
Over the past two years , the Fed has given a handful of banks ' securities affiliates permission to underwrite and deal in a variety of corporate , asset-backed and municipal securities 
Over the past two years , the Fed has given a handful of banks ' securities affiliates permission to underwrite and deal in a variety of corporate , asset-backed and municipal securities that had previously been the sole domain of securities firms . 
For some banks that 10 % ceiling created problems . 
The percent difference compares actual profit with the 30-day estimate where at least three analysts have issues forecasts in the past 30 days . 
When they return to their desks at 1 p.m. , they have pedaled 20 miles 
With 65 % of its sales coming from mountain bikes , Specialized is widely considered to be a market leader . 
One large competitor after another is leaping into the booming market Specialized helped create , turning out mountain bikes with such well-known names as Schwinn , Peugeot , Raleigh and Nishiki . 
Thus , Mr. Sinyard 's company must innovate more than ever to stay ahead of them , by developing new products specifically for mountain biking . 
It is a problem common to small companies that have grown fast 
While the company 's sales were soaring , `` We still had a system that was probably appropriate for $ 10 million to $ 20 million in sales 
Since his arrival in May , Mr. Eidsmo has put in place techniques learned 
`` We 're finally getting -- and it 's been very painful -- some understanding of what the company 's long-term horizon should begin to look like 
`` We 're finally getting -- and it 's been very painful -- some understanding of what the company 's long-term horizon should begin to look like , '' Mr. Eidsmo says . 
At a recent trade show , convention-goers lined up to view a new Specialized bike frame that weighs just 2.7 pounds -- a pound less than the lightest mountain-bike frame on the market . 
It currently costs $ 750 
Hoping to stay ahead of the pack , the company is emphasizing innovation . 
Competition is intensifying 
Accessories not only sell faster than whole bikes 
Trek Bicycle Corp. , which accounts for one-quarter of the $ 400 million in annual sales at its Milwaukee-based parent , Intrepid Corp. , entered the mountain-bike business in 1983 . 
Trek previously made only traditional road bikes 
At Giant Bicycle Inc. , Rancho Dominguez , Calif. , sales have tripled 
In response to the internationalization of the business , Mr. Sinyard 's company is replacing independent distributors overseas with wholly owned subsidiaries . The move will cut out the cost of a middleman and give Specialized more control over marketing and sales . 
John Franco , 47 years old , formerly vice chairman of Capital Holding Corp. and president of its Accumulation Investment Group , was named chief executive officer of this insurance holding company , effective Dec. 1 , succeeding Robert T. Shaw , who remains chairman . 
The companies would n't disclose the length of the contract 
The head of British Satellite Broadcasting Ltd. said he hopes to raise about # 450 million -LRB- $ 711 million -RRB- 
`` We 'll raise it through bank loans . We 'll raise it through -LCB- new -RCB- equity . 
Bond Corp. , British Satellite 's biggest investor , would like to withdraw from the satellite-TV consortium 
Bond Corp. , British Satellite 's biggest investor , would like to withdraw from the satellite-TV consortium , and analysts have speculated Hollywood studios might buy the Bond stake . 
Mr. Simonds-Gooding conceded that British Satellite 's potential U.K. lenders `` are saying , ` When you 're on the air , you 'll -LCB- actually -RCB- get the money 
Mr. Simonds-Gooding conceded that British Satellite 's potential U.K. lenders `` are saying , ` When you 're on the air , you 'll -LCB- actually -RCB- get the money . ' '' 
Tokyo stocks posted a second-consecutive loss Monday 
The index settled off the high of 2117.1 posted 
The index settled off the high of 2117.1 posted after Wall Street opened stronger . 
The 30-share index settled 23.2 points higher at 1701.7 . Volume was only 256.6 million shares , breaking the previous 1989 low of 276.8 million shares recorded Oct. 23 . 
Though the market was stronger , dealers said fresh buying interest was sidelined ahead of a potential market-affecting debate in the House of Commons set for Tuesday 
In London trading , Courtaulds , a chemicals and textiles company , increased 15 pence to 362 
Dealers said fresh buying was drawn into Jaguar 
Although Daimler has said it is n't interested in mounting a bid for Jaguar , dealers said its name further underlined the growing interest in the British concern 
Other winners Monday included nonferrous metals , which attracted investors because of a surge in gold prices on the back of the unstable dollar . 
Traders said turnover was particularly thin 
A few blue-chip stocks posted strong gains 
Courtaulds ' restructuring is among the largest thus far in Britain 
Some analysts have said Courtaulds ' moves could boost the company 's value by 5 % to 10 % 
Some analysts have said Courtaulds ' moves could boost the company 's value by 5 % to 10 % , because the two entities separately will carry a higher price earnings multiple than they did combined . 
In addition , Courtaulds said the moves are logical 
Courtaulds has been under pressure to enhance shareholder value 
Though Mr. Packer has since sold his stake , Courtaulds is moving to keep its institutional shareholders happy 
In a statement , the company said : `` Both parts can only realize their full potential and be appropriately valued by the market 
In a statement , the company said : `` Both parts can only realize their full potential and be appropriately valued by the market if they are separately quoted companies . 
The Japanese concern has a 40 % stake 
Officials said they were n't sure how the money will be distributed among overseas units , but added that NEC Semiconductors U.K. Ltd. will receive priority . 
Japanese steel companies are apparently focusing on domestic sales 
During the first hour of trading yesterday , prices fell as much as 1\/4 point , or down about $ 2.50 for each $ 1,000 face amount . 
But market activity was energized 
But market activity was energized as investors started to view the lower price levels as attractive . 
`` We saw good retail demand by small banks , individuals and institutions 
`` We saw good retail demand by small banks , individuals and institutions and that is one reason why the market advanced '' late in the day , said Sung Won Sohn , senior vice president and chief economist at Norwest Corp. , Minneapolis . 
Tomorrow , the October purchasing managers report is due 
Although the Treasury will announce details of the November refunding tomorrow , it could be delayed if Congress and President Bush fail to increase the Treasury 's borrowing capacity 
Although the Treasury will announce details of the November refunding tomorrow , it could be delayed 
Mortgage-backed securities were up less than 1\/8 point 
The average discount rate on three-month bills was 7.78 % 
Due to the Treasury 's need to raise funds quickly 
The Treasury bills sold yesterday settle today , rather than the standard settlement day of Thursday . 
And because of the early settlement , the three-month bills actually have a 93-day maturity 
Because of the early settlement , the Federal Reserve was unable to purchase bills for its system account . 
However , analysts expect the Fed to buy Treasury bills that were auctioned yesterday in the secondary market . 
Rates are determined by the difference between the purchase price and face value . 
Thus , higher bidding narrows the investor 's return 
The percentage rates are calculated on a 360-day year 
The 13-week bills mature Feb. 1 
The junk bond prices of Western Union Corp. tumbled 
Although the notes held at a price of 92 to 93 immediately after the reset , they started falling soon afterward 
Yesterday , Western Union 's senior secured reset notes fell 3 3\/4 points , or about $ 37.50 for each $ 1,000 face amount , to close at 50 1\/4 . 
The company 's 7.90 % sinking fund debentures were quoted at a bid price of 14 1\/4 and an offered price of 30 
High-yield traders said spreads between the bid and offered prices of Western Union junk bonds have been widening for some time 
The two-part issue consists of $ 200 million of senior subordinated reset notes maturing in 1997 
In the new-issue market for junk securities , underwriters at Salomon Brothers Inc. are expected to price today a $ 350 million junk bond offering by Beatrice Co. . 
Ginnie Mae 's 9 % issue for November delivery finished at 98 1\/2 , up 4\/32 
In the derivative market , insurance companies have scaled back their purchases of Remic securities , or real estate mortgage investment conduits 
The PACs appeal to insurance companies and other investors 
The improved tone in the municipal market , largely an offshoot of the New York City sale 's reception , helped municipal futures rebound from early lows 
December municipal futures ended up 11\/32 point to 92-14 , having pulled off a morning low of 91-23 
December municipal futures ended up 11\/32 point to 92-14 , having pulled off a morning low of 91-23 as cash municipals rebounded . 
The benchmark 11 3\/4 % bond due 2003\/2007 rose 10\/32 to 111 14\/32 to yield 10.14 % 
The 7 % Treasury bond due October 1999 ended off 0.60 point to 99.35 to yield 7.09 % 
Japanese government bonds continued to erode 
Such transactions numbered 670 in the second quarter , up from 527 a year earlier . 
Air-traffic problems , though often quite grim , This time of year leave us in stitches 
The move is sure to heighten concerns about increased Japanese investment in U.S. biotechnology firms . 
Gen-Probe , an industry leader in the field of genetic probes , which is a new technology used in diagnostic tests , last year signed an agreement for Chugai to exclusively market its diagnostic products in Japan for infectious diseases and cancer . 
That arrangement apparently has worked well 
Because the U.S. leads in most areas of biotechnology -- largely because of research investment by the U.S. government -- the sale is sure to increase concerns that Japanese companies will buy American know-how and use it to obtain the upper hand in biotechnology trade and competition 
Among other things , Mr. Bologna said that the sale will facilitate Gen-Probe 's marketing of a diagnostic test for acquired immune deficiency syndrome , or AIDS . 
A half-dozen Soviet space officials , in Tokyo in July for an exhibit , stopped by to see their counterparts at the National Space Development Agency of Japan . 
The Soviets have a world-leading space program , the guests noted . Would n't the Japanese like a piece of it ? 
That Moscow , with its dilapidated economic machine , would try to sell high technology to Japan , one of the world 's high-tech leaders , sounds like a coals-to-Newcastle notion . 
Japan-U.S. trade relations are bumpy these days 
Japan-U.S. trade relations are bumpy these days , and some Japanese favor decreasing their reliance on U.S. technology in light of the FSX fighter-plane flap , when U.S. officials reversed an earlier decision and refused to share certain crucial fighter-plane technology . 
It 's a world leader in auto manufacturing 
It 's a world leader in auto manufacturing , but its aviation industry is struggling 
One question being debated in the Soviet Union is how to use the defense sector 's research-and-production expertise in the rest of the economy . 
Where they lag behind the Japanese is in turning the scientific inventiveness into improved production . 
Kobe Steel Ltd. adopted Soviet casting technology in 1966 and used it for 14 years 
They believe technology is one of their best bets 
They believe technology is one of their best bets , and some Soviet officials say Moscow will even consider declassifying military know-how 
A main motive is hard cash . 
But , while the Soviets ca n't expect direct technology flow from Japan , they also hope to benefit from Japanese manufacturing expertise 
But , while the Soviets ca n't expect direct technology flow from Japan 
`` The Soviet Union has a lot of know-how 
Even if the Japanese find Soviet technology desirable , such discussions would be fraught with political complications 
So far , the Soviets have provided only the sketchiest information about their technology and business plans . 
It scared brokers 
Institutions had become active market players in the early 1970s and sought exchange seats to handle their own trades . 
The change prompted the rise of discount brokers and a reduction in securities research firms . 
But there are currently more exchange members than in 1975 , with the bigger houses gaining a larger share of total commissions . 
Commissions , however , account for a smaller share of investment-house business 
MAY 1 , 1975 , SIGNALED A DISTRESSFUL May Day for securities houses , which were forced to end 183 years of charging fixed commissions . 
In remarks at a White House ceremony marking Polish Heritage Month , Mr. Bush announced that Agriculture Secretary Clayton Yeutter , Commerce Secretary Robert Mosbacher and Labor Secretary Elizabeth Dole will lead the U.S. group . 
In remarks at a White House ceremony marking Polish Heritage Month , Mr. Bush announced that Agriculture Secretary Clayton Yeutter , Commerce Secretary Robert Mosbacher and Labor Secretary Elizabeth Dole will lead the U.S. group . Michael Boskin , chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers , also will be a member . 
Warner and Mr. Azoff declined comment , as did MCA , where Mr. Azoff had also been discussing such a venture . 
Although Mr. Azoff wo n't produce films at first , it is possible that he could do so later 
Although Mr. Azoff wo n't produce films at first 
Like Mr. Geffen 's arrangement , the venture gives Mr. Azoff a link to the world 's largest and most successful record distributor ; in the U.S. alone , Warner has a 40 % share of the market , about double its nearest competitor , Sony Corp. 's CBS Records . 
The 41-year-old Mr. Azoff , a former rock 'n' roll manager , is credited with turning around MCA 's once-moribund music division in his six years at the company . 
Mr. Azoff reportedly was bored and frequently clashed with top MCA management over a number of issues such as compensation and business plans . 
The soreness , he admits , went away about a week after the shot . 
Yet the rowing machine has n't been touched since 
A San Francisco lawyer , Mr. Panelli rowed religiously 
A San Francisco lawyer , Mr. Panelli rowed religiously when he first got the machine 
A San Francisco lawyer , Mr. Panelli rowed religiously when he first got the machine , but , he complains , it left grease marks on his carpet 
Half of those surveyed said they simply walk these days for exercise . 
The survey 's findings certainly are n't encouraging for marketers of health-club memberships , tennis rackets and home exercise equipment 
The survey 's findings certainly are n't encouraging for marketers of health-club memberships , tennis rackets and home exercise equipment , but people 's good intentions , if not their actions , are keeping sales of some fitness products healthy . 
For instance , sales of treadmills , exercise bikes , stair climbers and the like are expected to rise 8 % to about $ 1.52 billion this year , according to the National Sporting Goods Association , which sees the home market as one of the hottest growth areas for the 1990s . 
With more than 15 million exercise bikes sold in the past five years , he adds , `` a lot of garages , basements and attics must be populated with them . '' 
Electronic gimmicks are key . 
She 's trying to sell a $ 150 exercise bike she bought about five years ago for her roommate . 
`` I spent so much money that if I look at it , and I 'm not on it , I feel guilty 
`` I spent so much money that if I look at it 
The poll points up some inconsistencies between what people say 
The discrepancy may be 
`` People say they swim 
While she applauds the fact that more Americans are getting up from the television to stroll or garden , she says the percentage of Americans who do `` real exercise to build the heart '' is only 10 % to 20 % 
That target has been revised to 30 % by the year 2000 . 
It 's an activity she feels she can do for life 
`` I 'm really wiped out 
`` If you sit down all the time , you 'll go stiff 
`` If you sit down all the time , you 'll go stiff , '' says Joyce Hagood , a Roxboro , N.C. , homemaker who walks several miles a week . 
Sometimes , if you have a headache , you can go out and walk it right off 
Only about a quarter of the respondents said they exercise to lose weight . Slightly more , like Leslie Sherren , a law librarian in San Francisco who attends dance aerobics five times a week , exercise to relieve stress . 
`` They 're too crowded 
`` The guys are being macho 
They 're not there to work out . '' 
Even so , the Association of Quality Clubs , a health-club trade group in Boston , says membership revenues will rise about 5 % this year from last year 's $ 5 billion . 
People who start bowling expecting it to be a pleasurable exercise `` have been generally disappointed , '' the report said . 
`` I ca n't do anything score-wise 
He says bowling helps him shed pounds 
He says bowling helps him shed pounds , though that effort is sometimes thwarted by the fact that `` when I 'm drinking , I bowl better 
The down trend was partly the result of tighter credit sparked by a discount rate increase by the Bank of Japan in May . 
Who ya gon na call ? 
Who ya gon na call ? 
If there 's something ' weird 
When it comes to busting ghosts , the Monroe , Conn. , couple are perfect demons 
If psychics do n't work , but your house still seems haunted , you can call any one of a swelling band of skeptics such as Richard Busch 
If psychics do n't work 
Mr. Busch says there is a scientific explanation for all haunts 
`` All you have to do is eat a big pizza 
Like Hollywood 's Ghostbusters , Kentucky 's stand ready to roll 
Like Hollywood 's Ghostbusters , Kentucky 's stand ready to roll when haunts get out of hand . 
When a Louisville woman complained that a ghost was haunting her attic , Mr. Baker discovered a rat dragging a trap across the rafters 
When the weather cools , Mr. Baker says , hobos often hole up in abandoned houses 
`` People see activity in there 
Mrs. Stinnett says she never believed in ghosts before 
Mrs. Stinnett says she never believed in ghosts before , but lately her vacuum cleaner turned itself on , a telephone flew off its stand , doors slammed inexplicably 
`` I was doing the laundry and nearly broke my neck running upstairs to see who was there 
The flying telephone : `` You tangle the base cord around a chair leg 
The ghostly footsteps : `` Interstate 64 is a block away 
Mr. Baker promises to return 
It 's reassuring 
The Rev. Alphonsus Trabold , a theology professor and exorcism expert at St. Bonaventure University in Olean , N.Y. , frequently is asked to exorcise unruly spirits 
`` If the person believes there 's an evil spirit , you ask it to be gone 
Father Trabold often uses what he calls `` a therapeutic exorcism '' : a few prayers and an admonition to the spirit to leave . 
I attend 
A Scottish dwarf built the small red house 110 years ago 
Suddenly the woman begins swaying 
`` She 's being attacked by the demon , '' Mrs. Warren stagewhispers 
`` She 's being attacked by the demon , '' Mrs. Warren stagewhispers as the priest sprinkles holy water over the squirming woman 
A half-hour later , the woman is smiling and chatting ; the demon seems to have gone . 
`` This was an invisible , powerful force that 's almost impossible for a layman to contemplate , '' Mr. Warren says solemnly 
`` This was an invisible , powerful force that 's almost impossible for a layman to contemplate , '' Mr. Warren says solemnly as the ghostbusting entourage packs up to leave . 
BROKERAGE HIRING languishes amid market turmoil . 
Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. counts under 39,000 workers , down 100 from the start of the year and off 8,500 from after its merger and the market collapse two years ago . Another major firm has cut 6,000 workers , 13 % of its staff , since Black Monday . The Bureau of Labor Statistics says securities firms in New York City alone have slashed 17,000 jobs from the December 1987 peak of 163,000 . 
Illinois Company Investments had been trimming its ranks until last summer . 
Illinois Company Investments had been trimming its ranks until last summer . 
Ironically , `` up until the quake , we desperately tried to fill jobs , '' especially for crane and bulldozer operators . 
But the Oct. 17 temblor put a halt to much nonessential building 
SKILLED WORKERS aplenty are available to cope with earthquake damage . 
In recent months , California 's Transportation Department has been recruiting in Pennsylvania , Arizona and Texas for engineers experienced in road and bridge design . 
THE IRS may taketh what the Labor Department giveth . 
Now comes word that IRS regulations being drafted could put companies in violation of the tax code 
The IRS says the question wo n't be settled 
The IRS says the question wo n't be settled until the regulations are issued `` shortly . '' 
Executives universally believe workers should know their employer-sponsored benefits . 
Employees like the option 
`` Fast-food jobs are n't popular no matter what they pay , '' says a Tufts official . Working students , she explains , want `` some satisfaction . '' University of Michigan students look for jobs related to planned careers . 
Student job postings at Boston University slip 10 % this year following a 10 % drop in 1988 . 
Still , the school says there are an ample number 
The favorite remains Fernando Collor de Mello , a 40-year-old former governor of the state of Alagoas . 
But after building up a commanding lead , the moderate to conservative Mr. Collor has slipped to about 30 % in the polls from a high of about 43 % only a few weeks ago 
Two left-wing politicians , Socialist Leonel Brizola , a former governor of Rio de Janeiro state , and Marxist-leaning Luis Inacio da Silva , currently are running neck and neck at about 15 % 
If Brazil devises an economic strategy allowing it to resume growth and service debt , this could lead it to open up and deregulate its sheltered economy 
If Brazil devises an economic strategy allowing it to resume growth and service debt , this could lead it to open up and deregulate its sheltered economy , analysts say , just as Argentinian President Carlos Saul Menem has been doing 
`` Depending on the president , we could either be a trillion-dollar economy by the end of the century or stay where we are , '' says political scientist Amaury de Souza . 
That might have been considered hyperinflation not long ago 
That might have been considered hyperinflation not long ago , but Argentina endured price increases of almost 200 % in July 
That might have been considered hyperinflation not long ago , but Argentina endured price increases of almost 200 % in July before bringing the rate down sharply in August and September . 
It 's not uncommon to wait three minutes for a dial tone 
It 's not uncommon to wait three minutes for a dial tone after picking up the telephone 
It 's not uncommon to wait three minutes for a dial tone after picking up the telephone , and then to be interrupted by a busy signal 
Among the results is a frequent breakdown of public services . 
Economists , businessmen and some politicians agree that the answer is an orthodox economic austerity program including reduced state spending ; focusing spending on vital areas such as education , health and welfare ; turning state companies private ; reforming the tax system , raising public service rates to match costs ; and possibly a temporary wage and price freeze and a devaluation of the cruzado . 
Economists , businessmen and some politicians agree that the answer is an orthodox economic austerity program including reduced state spending ; focusing spending on vital areas such as education , health and welfare ; turning state companies private ; reforming the tax system , raising public service rates to match costs ; and possibly a temporary wage and price freeze and a devaluation of the cruzado . 
Of the three candidates with a serious chance of winning , Mr. Collor comes closest to advocating the sort of measures that economists say are necessary . 
The 67-year-old Mr. Brizola has been vague about his intentions and often inflammatory in his rhetoric 
Mr. da Silva , a 43-year-old former factory worker and labor leader , is the most radical , vowing to withhold payments on the foreign debt and saying he `` would n't go around putting the country up for sale to the highest bidder . '' 
The law has prevented $ 216 million of unnecessary expenditures since 1986 , according to William S. Conn , president of the Kentucky Hospital Association . 
If the Legislature does n't repeal the law , due for revision in 1990 , Mr. Jones says Humana may move its insurance operations , including 3,000 jobs in Louisville , to another state 
The company complains that it paid $ 10 million to non-Humana hospitals in its latest fiscal year for services provided to its insurance plan members . 
But Humana says its own facilities could serve its insured for less 
When a hospital in Lexington installed a lithotripter last year , demand for a similar kidney-stone smashing machine at a Humana hospital in Louisville fell 34 % 
Humana contends that $ 8,000 represents an extreme case 
When a hospital in Lexington installed a lithotripter last year , demand for a similar kidney-stone smashing machine at a Humana hospital in Louisville fell 34 % . The Humana hospital responded by jacking up prices to make up for lost revenue , Mr. Conn says , and now charges as much as $ 8,000 for the procedure , which costs only about $ 3,500 in Lexington . 
Now there 's a new wrinkle in what young doctors want : More than half of 300 residents responding to recent survey said they 'd prefer a guaranteed salary over traditional fee-for-service compensation in their first professional position . 
And 81 % preferred a group practice or health maintenance organization 
WHEN Catherine Bobar spent several weeks at the Medical Center of Vermont recently with a bone infection in her toe , she shared a room just like most patients 
WHEN Catherine Bobar spent several weeks at the Medical Center of Vermont recently with a bone infection in her toe , she shared a room just like most patients . 
`` It helps us , and them 
`` It helps us , and them , while they 're here 
`` It helps us , and them , while they 're here , and it certainly makes them a better health-care team 
`` It helps us , and them , while they 're here , and it certainly makes them a better health-care team when they get home . '' 
Because patients require less attention from nurses and other staff , room charges are lower -- about $ 100 less per day than a regular room at the Vermont hospital 
The group led by Birmingham , Mich. , publicist William D. McMaster did n't name an investment banker backing the deal or say how much its members will contribute to the offer . 
Indeed , some individuals identified with the group said they have n't committed any money to the bid and were n't aware of it 
In his letter to Knight-Ridder President James K. Batten , Mr. McMaster said he arrived at the $ 68 million figure using Knight-Ridder 's corporate financial statements and comments by Knight-Ridder officials that the Free Press has a $ 50 million value in salvage . 
But in an interview , Mr. McMaster said he and his investment banker would need access to full financial records 
Mitsui expects the antibiotic products to be exported to Southeast Asia and Africa . 
The partnership said it is proposing the change 
NRM suspended its common distribution in June 1988 and the distribution on its $ 2 cumulative convertible acquisition preferred units in September . 
However , unpaid distributions on the acquisition preferred are cumulative and would total $ 23 million a year , hurting NRM 's financial flexibility and its ability to raise capital , NRM said . 
After the transaction , current common unitholders will own about 21.3 % of Edisto , current acquisition preferred holders will own 72.3 % 
Cleveland-based Sherwin-Williams produces paints and coatings 
USG Corp. agreed to sell its headquarters building here to Manufacturers Life Insurance Co. of Toronto , and will lease the 19-story facility 
After hitting two-year highs this summer , net sales of stock funds slowed in September , according to the Investment Company Institute , a trade group 
`` Confidence was starting to come back 
Net sales of stock funds in September totaled $ 839.4 million , down from $ 1.1 billion in August , the institute said . 
But if reinvested dividends are excluded , investors put in only $ 340 million more than they pulled out for the month 
Most of the those who left stock funds simply switched into money market funds . 
Investors in stock funds did n't panic the weekend after mid-October 's 190-point market plunge . Most of the those who left stock funds simply switched into money market funds . And some fund groups said investors actually became net buyers . 
In October , net sales of stock funds at Fidelity dropped sharply , Mr. Hines said . 
`` If that follows through next month 
`` If that follows through next month , then it will be a different story , '' he says . 
If Mr. Gates had been allowed to say these things , we would now be hearing about `` discord '' and `` disarray '' on foreign policy 
Dark hints would be raised that parts of the administration hope Mr. Gorbachev would fail , just as they were 
If Mr. Gates had been allowed to say these things , we would now be hearing about `` discord '' and `` disarray '' on foreign policy . 
It 's somehow OK for Secretary Baker himself , however , to say all the same things . 
Perhaps Mr. Gates would emphasize more than Mr. Baker the many hurdles the Soviet leader must leap 
Perhaps Mr. Gates would emphasize more than Mr. Baker the many hurdles the Soviet leader must leap if he is going to succeed . 
GATT membership will not matter to Donbas coal miners short of soap 
They all understand point one : Nothing the U.S. can do will make much difference in whether Mr. Gorbachev succeeds with perestroika . 
If a deal can be made to cut the world 's Ortegas loose from Moscow , why not 
We do n't expect much good from nuclear-arms control 
There 's nothing in the least contradictory in all this 
There 's nothing in the least contradictory in all this , and it would be nice to think that Washington could tolerate a reasonably sophisticated , complex view . 
Yet much of the political culture seems intent on castigating the Bush administration for not `` helping '' Mr. Gorbachev . 
So every time a Bush official raises a doubt about Mr. Gorbachev , the Washington community shouts `` Cold War '' and `` timidity 
As one unidentified official clearly in the late stages of the disease told the Times : `` Baker just felt that there were some lines in the speech that could be misinterpreted and seized by the press . '' Its symptoms include a cold sweat at the sound of debate , clammy hands in the face of congressional criticism , and fainting spells when someone writes the word `` controversy . '' 
In short , the problem is not intra-administration disagreement , but preoccupation with the prospect that perestrokia might fail 
Mr. Baker may want to avoid criticism from Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell 
Even if the press is ready to seize and misinterpret , these are not very complicated thoughts 
Most murders are state crimes 
There 's just one problem : The law that Sen. Thurmond is pushing would be irrelevant in the case of the Maryland restaurant murders and almost all other killings . 
Senate Republicans , after repeatedly failing to attach death-penalty amendments to unrelated legislation , have finally gotten a full-blown death-penalty bill through committee 
In 1972 , the high court swept aside all capital-punishment laws -- federal and state alike -- as unconstitutional . 
But in 1976 , the court permitted resurrection of such laws 
But in 1976 , the court permitted resurrection of such laws , if they meet certain procedural requirements . 
For instance , juries would have to consider specific `` aggravating '' and `` mitigating '' factors 
Since that 1976 ruling , 37 states have reintroduced the death penalty . 
The Thurmond bill would establish a federally administered death sentence for 23 crimes , most of which were formerly punishable by death under federal statutes that the Supreme Court invalidated . 
The Thurmond bill would establish a federally administered death sentence for 23 crimes , most of which were formerly punishable by death under federal statutes that the Supreme Court invalidated . 
Most of the crimes incorporated in the Thurmond bill are exceedingly rare 
Most of the crimes incorporated in the Thurmond bill are exceedingly rare -- killing a Supreme Court justice , for instance , or deliberately causing a train wreck that results in a death . 
In fact , only 28 defendants would have been eligible for federal death sentences if the Thurmond bill had been in effect in the past three years , according to a study by the Senate Judiciary Committee 's Democratic staff 
Republicans acknowledge that few people would be executed under the Thurmond bill 
`` Many scholars are of the opinion that the mere existence of the penalty deters many people from the commission of capital crimes , '' says Sen. Orrin Hatch -LRB- R. , Utah -RRB- . 
Thomas Boyd , a senior Justice Department official , says the new federal drug-related crimes punishable by death since last November may result in a jump in capital sentences 
Before the bill left committee , Sen. Edward Kennedy -LRB- D. , Mass . -RRB- attached an amendment that would allow a defendant to escape from a death sentence in jurisdictions shown to have meted out executions in a racist manner 
A large number of studies suggest that state judges and juries have imposed the penalty in a racially discriminatory fashion . 
It would allow all defendants to introduce statistical evidence showing racially disproportionate application of the death penalty in the past . 
Since most prosecutors would n't be able to demonstrate conclusively that racial considerations did n't affect sentencing , executions everywhere might come to a halt 
Mr. Kennedy failed to get his amendment incorporated into last year 's anti-drug legislation 
Mr. Kennedy failed to get his amendment incorporated into last year 's anti-drug legislation , and it will be severely attacked on the Senate floor this time around . 
But if it survives , it could prompt other statutory changes , according to the Mr. Burr 
Narrowing the penalty in this fashion would clearly reduce whatever deterrent effect it now has . 
Narrowing the penalty in this fashion would clearly reduce whatever deterrent effect it now has . 
Vice Chancellor Maurice A. Hartnett III of Delaware 's Court of Chancery heard arguments for more than two hours here 
Michael Rauch , an attorney for Dow Jones , defended the offer as adequate , based on what the company considers realistic projections of Telerate 's revenue growth , in the range of 12 % . 
Lone Star Technologies said it and its subsidiary 's creditors agree that the parent company owes the unit money 
Lone Star Technologies Inc. said its Lone Star Steel Co. unit sued it in federal court here , seeking to recover an intercompany receivable valued at a minimum of $ 23 million . 
The Lone Star Steel lawsuit also asks the court to rule that Lone Star Technologies is jointly responsible for a $ 4.5 million Lone Star Steel pension payment that was due , but was n't paid , in September 
The Lone Star Steel lawsuit also asks the court to rule that Lone Star Technologies is jointly responsible for a $ 4.5 million Lone Star Steel pension payment that was due , but was n't paid , in September and that the parent company ca n't recover the amount from its subsidiary 
Lone Star Technologies Inc. said its Lone Star Steel Co. unit sued it in federal court here , seeking to recover an intercompany receivable valued at a minimum of $ 23 million . 
Under Chapter 11 , a company continues to operate , but is protected from creditor lawsuits 
On the afternoon of Oct. 17 , after hours of haggling with five insurance-claims adjusters over settling a toxic-waste suit , four lawyers had an agreement in hand . 
But as Judge Thomas M. Jenkins donned his robes so he could give final approval , the major earthquake struck , its epicenter not far from his courtroom in Redwood City , Calif 
But as Judge Thomas M. Jenkins donned his robes 
Lights flickered on and off ; plaster dropped from the ceiling , the walls still shook 
`` Let 's close the door , '' said the judge 
At stake was an $ 80,000 settlement involving who should pay what share of cleanup costs at the site of a former gas station , where underground fuel tanks had leaked and contaminated the soil . 
`` We were never going to get these insurance companies to agree again , '' says John V. Trump , a San Francisco defense lawyer in the case . 
`` My belief is always , if you 've got a settlement , you read it into the record 
Your Oct. 4 front page noted that British lawyers have to wear wigs in court 
Applause for `` Sometimes , Talk Is the Best Medicine , '' in your Oct. 5 Marketplace section . 
That amounts to more than $ 350 billion a year . 
And it is estimated that more than 20 % of that , $ 70 billion , goes to `` defensive medicine '' -- those measures taken by doctors to protect themselves from the most unlikely possibilities . 
So we all stand to benefit 
In an interview with the trade journal Automotive News , Mr. Iacocca declined to say which plants will close 
In an interview with the trade journal Automotive News , Mr. Iacocca declined to say which plants will close or when Chrysler will make the moves . 
But he said , `` we have too many plants in our system . 
At Chrysler 's 1990 model preview last month , Chrysler Motors President Robert A. Lutz said the No. 3 auto maker , along with other U.S. manufacturers , might be forced to `` realign ... capacity 
At Chrysler 's 1990 model preview last month , Chrysler Motors President Robert A. Lutz said the No. 3 auto maker , along with other U.S. manufacturers , might be forced to `` realign ... capacity '' if market demand does n't improve . 
General Motors Corp. has signaled that as many as five of its U.S. and Canadian plants may not survive the mid-1990s 
`` Unless the market goes to 19 million units -- which we all know it 's not going to do -- we have the inescapable fact that the transplants are adding capacity 
The Japanese-managed plants eventually will have the capacity to build some 2.5 million vehicles in the 
Already Chrysler has closed the Kenosha , Wis. , plant it acquired 
Already Chrysler has closed the Kenosha , Wis. , plant it acquired when it bought American Motors Corp. in 1987 . 
Revco insists that the proposal is simply an `` expression of interest 
Revco insists that the proposal is simply an `` expression of interest , '' because under Chapter 11 Revco has `` exclusivity rights '' until Feb. 28 . Those rights prevent anyone other than Revco from proposing a reorganization plan . 
He said he feared a Revco reorganization might force bondholders to accept a `` cheap deal 
He said he feared a Revco reorganization might force bondholders to accept a `` cheap deal , '' and that the Bass group 's offer would give them more money . 
Revco received the offer Oct. 20 , but issued a response yesterday 
Its problem , they say , is that management paid too much in the leveraged buy-out 
`` If bought at the right price , it could still be profitable 
Its problem , they say , is that management paid too much in the leveraged buy-out and the current $ 515 million debt load is keeping Revco in the red . 
`` If bought at the right price , it could still be profitable , '' said Jeffrey Stein , an analyst at McDonald & Co. , Cleveland . 
In addition , Revco 's 1,900 stores in 27 states represent a lot of real estate 
Acadia Partners Limited Partnership , a Fort Worth , Texas , partnership that includes the Robert M. Bass Group , made the proposal . 
Acadia would sell up to 10 % of the equity in the reorganized company to creditors and bondholders in exchange for the cash distribution 
Revco 's chairman and chief executive officer , Boake A. Sells , said both the company and the bondholders have put forth reorganization plans 
Revco 's chairman and chief executive officer , Boake A. Sells , said both the company and the bondholders have put forth reorganization plans , but little progress has been made 
Any reorganization proposal , Mr. Sells said , is difficult to assess 
`` It 's not like the board can decide '' by itself , Mr. Sells said , adding , `` we 're indifferent to -LRB- the Bass -RRB- plan . We just want a plan that satisfies creditors and at the end leaves a healthy Revco . '' 
Futures prices fell during three of five sessions last week 
Two of the major factors buoying prices , the prolonged strikes at the Highland Valley mine in Canada and the Cananea mine in Mexico , were finally resolved . 
At least one analyst noted that as production improves , the concern among traders is whether the prospective increased supply will find buyers because of uncertainty over national economies 
Recently , Japan has been buying copper elsewhere . 
But as Highland Valley and Cananea begin operating , they are expected to resume their roles as Japan 's suppliers 
According to Fred Demler , metals economist for Drexel Burnham Lambert , New York , `` Highland Valley has already started operating 
At least one analyst noted that as production improves , the concern among traders is whether the prospective increased supply will find buyers because of uncertainty over national economies . 
Workers at two Chilean mines , Los Bronces and El Soldado , which belong to the Exxon-owned Minera Disputado group , will vote Thursday on whether to strike 
Another analyst said that , if there was any concern , it was that a strike could encourage other walkouts in Chile 
London Metal Exchange copper inventories fell 550 tons last week to 83,950 tons , a smaller-than-expected decline . 
However , traders disregarded a potential production disruption in Chile and a continued drop in inventories . 
Consumer stocks of copper in the U.S. fell to 44,000 tons at the end of September from 54,000 tons a month earlier 
The prices of most corn , soybean and wheat futures contracts dropped slightly 
Buying by the Soviets has helped to prop up corn prices in recent weeks 
The reports , attributed to the Colombian minister of economic development , said Brazil would give up 500,000 bags of its quota and Colombia 200,000 bags , the analyst said . 
The Colombian minister was said to have referred to a letter that he said President Bush sent to Colombian President Virgilio Barco , and in which President Bush said it was possible to overcome obstacles to a new agreement . 
The market turned quiet after rising sharply late last week , according to one analyst 
Last week 's uncertainty in the stock market and a weaker dollar triggered a flight to safety 
There was some profit-taking 
There was some profit-taking because prices for all the precious metals had risen to levels at which there was resistance to further advance , he said . 
When the Supreme Soviet passed laws on workers ' rights in May 1987 and on self-managing cooperatives a year later , some Western observers assumed Mikhail Gorbachev had launched the Soviet Union on a course that would lead inevitably to the creation of a market economy 
Their only doubt concerned the possibility that Mr. Gorbachev might not survive the opposition that his reforms would arouse 
If Mr. Gorbachev 's goal is the creation of a free market , he and these Western observers have good reason to fear for his future 
If Mr. Gorbachev 's goal is the creation of a free market , he and these Western observers have good reason to fear for his future 
These fears were clearly apparent 
These fears were clearly apparent when , last week , Secretary of State James Baker blocked a speech by Robert Gates , deputy national security adviser and Soviet expert , on the ground that it was too pessimistic about the chances of Mr. Gorbachev 's economic reforms succeeding . 
Yet the Soviet leader 's readiness to embark on foreign visits and steady accumulation of personal power , particularly since the last Politburo reshuffle on Sept. 30 , do not suggest that Mr. Gorbachev is on the verge of being toppled 
Yet the Soviet leader 's readiness to embark on foreign visits and steady accumulation of personal power , particularly since the last Politburo reshuffle on Sept. 30 , do not suggest that Mr. Gorbachev is on the verge of being toppled ; nor does he look likely to reverse the powers of perestroika . 
Yet the Soviet leader 's readiness to embark on foreign visits and steady accumulation of personal power , particularly since the last Politburo reshuffle on Sept. 30 , do not suggest that Mr. Gorbachev is on the verge of being toppled ; nor does he look likely to reverse the powers of perestroika . 
But is he so clever that he has achieved the political equivalent of making water run uphill ? 
An alternative and more convincing explanation , confirmed by recent events and a close inspection of the Gorbachev program , is that the new Soviet economic and social structures are intended to conform to a model other than that of the market . 
For example , while the laws on individual labor activity allow a citizen to earn a living independent of the state , strict provisions are attached on how far this may lead to the development of a free market 
Before becoming self-employed , or setting up a cooperative , workers must seek permission from the local soviet -LRB- council -RRB- 
Permission is far from automatic : The soviets have the legal right to turn down applications and impose conditions 
Permission is far from automatic : The soviets have the legal right to turn down applications and impose conditions , and they appear to be exercising these powers . 
The controls on cooperatives appeared relatively liberal 
The controls on cooperatives appeared relatively liberal when first introduced . 
But that changed following a resolution from the Supreme Soviet banning cooperatives from operating in some areas of the economy , and permitting activity in others 
All independent media activity is now illegal , which perhaps is not surprising 
If Mr. Gorbachev is looking toward unleashing the productive forces of the market , these latest resolutions are nothing short of reckless 
Along with some other revealing indicators , these developments suggest that while Mr. Gorbachev wishes to move away from some rigid central controls , he is bent on creating economic structures of a kind that would scarcely find favor with the Austrian or Chicago schools of economic thought 
He told the Congress of People 's Deputies on May 30 : `` We do not share this approach 
Having rejected central economic planning for economic reasons , and the market for fear of the social -LRB- political -RRB- consequences , Mr. Gorbachev seeks a `` third way '' that would combine the discipline and controls of the former with the economic benefits of the latter . 
The fascist concept of corporatism envisaged an `` organic '' society in which citizens were spiritually and morally unified , and prepared to sacrifice themselves for the nation . 
The closeness of Soviet perestroika to the fascist social blueprint of Mussolini was evident 
In doing so , he neither rejected a socialist planned economy 
In doing so , he neither rejected a socialist planned economy nor embraced the free market . 
To ensure the loyalty of the business sector , Mr. Gorbachev may offer concessions and powers that will allow the business community to preserve its own interests , probably by restricting competition . 
Within the alliance it is supposed to act as a balancing force , guarding against excessive control by government or abuse of its economic position by business , for either could result in a deterioration of its living standards -LRB- under the new resolutions , workers councils may demand that a cooperative be closed 
The most important development in Mr. Gorbachev 's policy for marginalizing the opposition movement is the claim that the U.S.S.R. also suffers from terrorism . 
Mr. Gorbachev would appear to see his central task , however , as that of ensuring that foundations of an alliance among labor , capital and the state are properly laid 
If he were able to construct a popular and efficient corporatist system , he or his heir would be wellplaced to rein in political opposition , and to re-establish control in Eastern Europe 
The South was off 2 % after the first nine months 
A small decline in total construction for the entire year is possible 
Newly contracted residential work edged up 2 % in September to an annualized $ 121.2 billion 
Although the third quarter was the best so far this year for non-residential building , weakness early in the year held the nine-month total to $ 69.6 billion , up just 1 % from a year earlier 
Public-works and utility projects , also known as non-building contracting , grew 18 % to $ 52.2 billion in September 
The Sept. 30 end of the federal fiscal year may have prodded contractors to get any behind-schedule road and bridge construction under way 
Moody 's Investors Service Inc. said it lowered ratings on long-term debt of CS First Boston Inc. , the holding company of Wall Street giant First Boston Corp. , because of First Boston 's `` aggressive merchant banking risk '' in highly leveraged takeovers . 
In downgrading CS First Boston 's subordinated domestic , Euromarket and Swiss debt to single-A-3 from single-A-2 , Moody 's is matching a move made by the other major credit rating concern , Standard & Poor 's Corp. , several months ago . 
First Boston 's merchant banking risks mounted last month 
First Boston 's merchant banking risks mounted last month as highly leveraged Campeau Corp. , First Boston 's most lucrative client of the decade , was hit by a cash squeeze 
First Boston financings for several other highly leveraged clients , including Ohio Mattress , unraveled 
It said CS First Boston `` has consistently been one of the most aggressive firms in merchant banking 
Quotron , which Citicorp purchased in 1986 , provides price quotations for securities , particularly stocks . 
Independent providers of financial information , including Quotron , have been under some pressure 
The company has no immediate plans to close any operations 
The spokeswoman noted that last week , Kidder , Peabody & Co. , the securities subsidiary of General Electric Co. , chose a Quotron subsidiary to provide order-processing services . 
Quotron is n't profitable on Citicorp 's books because of the interest charges the New York bank holding company incurred in buying the financial-data concern for $ 680 million , says Ronald I. Mandle , analyst for Sanford C. Bernstein & Co . 
The 1989 Series , disrupted by a devastating earthquake and diminished in national interest 
A network spokesman would n't comment 
A network spokesman would n't comment , and ABC Sports officials declined to be interviewed . 
A World Series telecast typically carries 56 30-second commercials 
CBS Sports President Neal Pilson has conceded only that CBS will have a loss in the first year . 
But other industry executives contend the losses could reach $ 250 million over four years and could go even higher 
The Series got off to a lukewarm start Oct. 14 with a 16.2 % rating ; the next night it drew 17.4 % of homes . 
An analyst 's opinion to that effect even sent Capital Cities\/ABC shares soaring two weeks ago . 
Some people had hoped ABC 's ratings would go up because of the intense focus on the event in the aftermath of the earthquake . 
Bargain hunters helped stock prices break a weeklong losing streak 
The Dow Jones Industrial Average gained 6.76 points to 2603.48 in light trading 
Although the dollar rose slightly against most major currencies , the focus in currency markets was on the beleaguered British pound 
Trading volume on the New York Stock Exchange dwindled to only 126.6 million shares yesterday 
Kidder Peabody became the most recent firm to swear off stock-index arbitrage trading for its own account 
Trading volume on the New York Stock Exchange dwindled to only 126.6 million shares yesterday as major brokerage firms continued to throw in the towel on program trading . 
The Dow industrials shot up 23 points in the opening hour , at least in part because of buy programs generated by stock-index arbitrage , a form of program trading involving futures contracts . 
But interest waned 
But interest waned as the day wore on 
In major market activity : Stock prices rose in light trading . 
But declining issues on the New York Stock Exchange outnumbered gainers 774 to 684 
The British pound , pressured by last week 's resignations of key Thatcher administration officials 
If Japanese companies are so efficient , why does Kawasaki-Rikuso Transportation Co. sometimes need a week just to tell its clients how soon it can ship goods from here to Osaka 
Because the companies have lacked office computers considered standard equipment in the U.S. and Western Europe , Japanese corporations ' reputation as hi-tech powerhouses is only half right 
Their factories may look like sets for a Spielberg movie 
Kawasaki-Rikuso , a freight company , set up its own software subsidiary this year and is spending nearly a year 's profit to more than double the computer terminals at its main office . In April , the Long-Term Credit Bank linked its computers in Tokyo with its three American offices . 
Combined PC and work-station use in Japan will jump as much as 25 % annually over the next five years , according to some analysts , compared with about 10 % in the U.S. . 
With Japanese companies in a wide range of industries -- from heavy industry to securities firms -- increasing their market share world-wide , the prospect of an even more efficient Japanese economic army may rattle foreigners . 
With Japanese companies in a wide range of industries -- from heavy industry to securities firms -- increasing their market share world-wide , the prospect of an even more efficient Japanese economic army may rattle foreigners . 
Japan may be a tough market for outsiders to penetrate 
Japan may be a tough market for outsiders to penetrate , and the U.S. is hopelessly behind Japan in certain technologies . 
After years of talking about selling in Japan , more and more U.S. companies are seriously pouring in . 
`` Personal Computer '' yearbooks are lined up on nearly every desk 
`` Personal Computer '' yearbooks are lined up on nearly every desk , and dog-eared copies of Nikkei Computer crowd magazine racks . 
While American PC sales have averaged roughly 25 % annual growth since 1984 and West European sales a whopping 40 % , Japanese sales were flat for most of that time 
Japanese office workers use PCs at half the rate of their European counterparts and one-third that of the Americans . 
In Japan , many desktop terminals are limited to one function and ca n't communicate with other machines . 
The market planning and sales promotion office of Nomura Securities Co. , for example , has more than 30 computers for its 60 workers , a respectable ratio . 
To transfer information from one to the other , employees make printouts and enter the data manually . To transmit charts to branch offices , they use a fax machine . 
Some Japanese operations , such as securities-trading rooms , may be ahead of their American counterparts 
Of course , simply buying computers does n't always solve problems 
Of course , simply buying computers does n't always solve problems , and many American companies have erred by purchasing technology they did n't understand . 
Because the Japanese `` alphabet '' is so huge , Japan has no history of typewriter use 
Because the Japanese `` alphabet '' is so huge , Japan has no history of typewriter use 
Because the Japanese `` alphabet '' is so huge , Japan has no history of typewriter use 
While most American employees have their own private space , Japanese `` salarymen '' usually share large , common tables and rely heavily on old-fashioned personal contact 
Top Japanese executives often make decisions based on consensus and personal relationships rather than complex financial projections and fancy presentations . 
While most American employees have their own private space , Japanese `` salarymen '' usually share large , common tables and rely heavily on old-fashioned personal contact . Top Japanese executives often make decisions based on consensus and personal relationships rather than complex financial projections and fancy presentations . And Japan 's management system makes it hard to impose a single , integrated computer system corporatewide . Because the Japanese `` alphabet '' is so huge , Japan has no history of typewriter use , and so `` keyboard allergy , '' especially among older workers , remains a common affliction . 
Besides , a computer processing the Japanese language needs a huge memory and much processing capability 
Some analysts estimate the average PC costs about 50 % more in Japan than the U.S. . 
The U.S. market , too , is dominated by a giant , International Business Machines Corp . 
That spurs competition and growth , allows users to change and mix brands easily , and increases software firms ' incentive to write packages 
If a record industry lacked a common standard , Sony CD owners could listen to a Sony version of Madonna 's `` Like a Prayer '' but not one made for a Panasonic player 
NEC wo n't release its code 
IBM established its standard to try to stop falling behind upstart Apple Computer 
NEC wo n't release its code , and every one of the dozen or so makers has its own proprietary operating system -- all incompatible with each other . 
`` They hesitate to market NEC-compatible machines ; NEC disapproves of such machines 
While tens of thousands of software packages using the IBM standard are available in the U.S. , they say only about 8,000 are written for NEC 
In Japan , `` software is four to five years behind the 
In Japan , `` software is four to five years behind the U.S. because hardware is four to five years behind 
An NEC spokeswoman responds that prices are higher in Japan 
She adds that some technological advances trail those in the 
While American PC sales have averaged roughly 25 % annual growth since 1984 and West European sales a whopping 40 % , Japanese sales were flat for most of that time . 
By increasing the number of PCs it uses from 66 to 1,000 , Omron Tateishi Electronics Co. , of Kyoto , hopes not only to make certain tasks easier 
`` Managers have long been those who supervise their subordinates 
`` Managers have long been those who supervise their subordinates so orders would be properly acted on , '' a spokesman says . 
`` But new managers will have to be creators and innovators 
`` But new managers will have to be creators and innovators ... and for that purpose it is necessary to create an environment where information from both inside and outside the company can be reached easily 
In the private sector , practically every major company is setting explicit goals to increase employees ' exposure to computers . The government is funding several projects to push PC use . 
That has n't generated much sales 
A healthy , coherent Japanese market could also make it far easier for Japanese companies to sell overseas , where their share is still minimal . 
A healthy , coherent Japanese market could also make it far easier for Japanese companies to sell overseas , where their share is still minimal . 
A healthy , coherent Japanese market could also make it far easier for Japanese companies to sell overseas , where their share is still minimal . 
Though no formal trade barriers exist , the Japanese computer industry is difficult for outsiders to enter 
`` If it were an open market , we would have been in in 1983 or 1984 
Although it has opened a New Zealand subsidiary , it is still only `` studying '' Japan , the only nation that has n't adopted IBM-oriented specifications 
Though no formal trade barriers exist , the Japanese computer industry is difficult for outsiders to enter . 
And because general retail centers such as ComputerLand have little presence in Japan , sales remain in the iron grip of established computer makers 
And because general retail centers such as ComputerLand have little presence in Japan , sales remain in the iron grip of established computer makers . 
Though no formal trade barriers exist , the Japanese computer industry is difficult for outsiders to enter . 
IBM , though long a leader in the Japanese mainframe business , did n't introduce its first PC in Japan until five years after NEC did 
They long made little effort here . 
They long made little effort here . 
IBM just last year started selling its first machine that could run in both Japanese and English 
`` It may take five years to break even in Japan , '' says John A. Siniscal , who runs the Asia-Pacific office for McCormack & Dodge , a U.S. software company . 
This is 
This is not only because it kills the unborn , a job at which it actually is not outstandingly efficient , zapping only 50 % to 85 % of them depending on which study you read -LRB- prostaglandin , taken in conjunction with the pill , boosts the rate to 95 % -RRB- . 
It is time-consuming -LRB- the abortion part alone lasts three days 
It is time-consuming -LRB- the abortion part alone lasts three days , and the clinical part comprises a week 's worth of visits -RRB- , bloody -LRB- one woman in a Swedish trial required a transfusion 
It is most effective taken 
So far , all the studies have concluded that RU-486 is `` safe . '' 
The drug seems to suppress ovulation for three to seven months 
Some women clearly have no trouble eventually conceiving again : The studies have reported repeaters in their programs . 
Rather ominously , rabbit studies reveal that RU-486 can cause birth defects , Lancet , the British medical journal , reported in 1987 . 
Many physicians have expressed concern over the heavy bleeding , which occurs 
It typically takes from eight to 10 years to obtain the Food and Drug Administration 's approval for a new drug 
The Health and Human Services Department currently forbids the National Institutes of Health from funding abortion research as part of its $ 8 million contraceptive program . 
`` For a woman whose period is late , using RU-486 means no waiting , no walking past picket lines at abortion clinics , and no feet up in stirrups for surgery , '' burbles health writer Laura Fraser . 
RU-486 is being administered in France only under strict supervision in the presence of a doctor . 
Thus , a woman who used RU-486 to have an abortion would have to make three trips to the clinic past those picket lines ; an initial visit for medical screening -LRB- anemics and those with previous pregnancy problems are eliminated -RRB- and to take the pill , a second trip 48 hours later for the prostaglandin , administered either via injection or vaginal suppository , and a third trip a week later to make sure she has completely aborted . 
Furthermore , because timing is so critical with RU-486 , she will learn , via a pelvic examination and ultrasound , not only that she is pregnant , but just how pregnant she is 
If this passes -- a Senate version has already been cleared for a floor vote that is likely early next year -- it would put the federal government into the contraceptive marketing business for the first time 
If this passes -- a Senate version has already been cleared for a floor vote that is likely early next year -- it would put the federal government into the contraceptive marketing business for the first time . 
We will not know 
That means that the U.S. trade deficit was running closer to $ 75 billion than to $ 95 billion in 1988 , and $ 55 billion -LRB- annualized -RRB- rather than $ 80 billion in the first quarter of 1989 . 
Too early to tell 
It does not relieve the need for our market-opening efforts for both goods and services 
The tab even covers $ 8 million in commitment fees owed to Citicorp and Chase Manhattan 
Under a merger agreement reached Sept. 14 , the UAL board agreed to reimburse certain of the buy-out group 's expenses out of company funds 
The merger agreement says the buy-out group is entitled to be repaid $ 26.7 million in fees for its investment bankers , Lazard Freres & Co. and Salomon Brothers Inc. , and its law firm , Paul Weiss Rifkind Wharton & Garrison . 
The collapse of a $ 6.79 billion labor-management buy-out of United Airlines parent UAL Corp. may not stop some of Wall Street 's top talent from collecting up to $ 53.7 million in fees . 
Separately , UAL stock rose $ 4 a share to $ 175 in composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange on reports that Los Angeles investor Marvin Davis has asked United Airlines unions if they 're interested in cooperating with Mr. Davis in a new bid for UAL . 
But neither the pilots nor the machinists appear interested 
But neither the pilots nor the machinists appear interested , and Mr. Davis is barred from making a new bid under terms of an agreement he made with UAL in September 
Kidder , Peabody & Co. , a unit of General Electric Co. , announced it would stop doing stock-index arbitrage for its own account 
Mr. Phelan 's meeting with the floor brokers comes as he prepares to explain the exchange 's position on program trading to key congressional regulators in a closed session tomorrow , according to exchange officials 
The program-trading outcry was taken to a new level 
Merrill 's move is one of the most sweeping program-trading pullbacks of recent days 
Kidder , Peabody & Co. , a unit of General Electric Co. , announced it would stop doing stock-index arbitrage for its own account , and Merrill Lynch & Co. pulled out of the practice altogether . 
Merrill , in a statement by Chairman William A. Schreyer and President Daniel P. Tully , said index arbitrage `` has been clearly identified in the investing public 's mind as a contributing factor to excess market volatility 
Merrill , in a statement by Chairman William A. Schreyer and President Daniel P. Tully , said index arbitrage `` has been clearly identified in the investing public 's mind as a contributing factor to excess market volatility , '' so Merrill wo n't execute such trades 
Merrill , in a statement by Chairman William A. Schreyer and President Daniel P. Tully , said index arbitrage `` has been clearly identified in the investing public 's mind as a contributing factor to excess market volatility , '' so Merrill wo n't execute such trades until `` effective controls '' are in place . 
Last Thursday , PaineWebber Group Inc. also said it would cease index arbitrage altogether 
Index arbitrage , Mr. Carpenter said last week , does n't have a `` negative impact on the market as a whole 
Just a week ago , Mr. Carpenter staunchly defended index arbitrage at Kidder , the most active index-arbitrage trading firm on the stock exchange this year . Index arbitrage , Mr. Carpenter said last week , does n't have a `` negative impact on the market as a whole '' and Kidder 's customers were `` sophisticated '' enough to know that . 
Kidder denied that GE 's chairman and chief executive , John F. Welch , had anything to do with Kidder 's decision . 
But at least one chief executive said he called Mr. Welch to complain about Kidder 's aggressive use of program trading 
Supporters of index arbitrage have n't been publicly sticking up for the trading strategy , as some did during the post-crash outcry of 1987 . 
Merrill said it continues to believe that `` the causes of excess market volatility are far more complex than any particular computer trading strategy . 
Merrill 's index arbitragers will continue to do other kinds of computer-assisted program trading 
But Merrill Lynch , in its statement about pulling out of index arbitrage , suggested that the current debate has missed the mark . Merrill said it continues to believe that `` the causes of excess market volatility are far more complex than any particular computer trading strategy . 
`` If they think they are going to stop index arbitrage by causing a few Wall Street firms to quit , they are crazy 
Pressure from big institutional investors has been the major catalyst for Wall Street 's program-trading pullback . 
A Fidelity spokesman in Boston denied the speculation , saying the program-trading issue was more of a regulatory problem . 
But a much smaller mutual fund company , the USAA Investment Management Co. unit of USAA , San Antonio , Texas , said it informed nine national brokerage firms it will cease business with them 
Charles Wohlstetter , chairman of Contel , who is helping organize the alliance of Big Board-listed firms , said he had no time to work yesterday 
Robert Guy , an associate curator at the Princeton Art Museum , was previewing a June antiquities sale at the auction house 
To confirm Mr. Guy 's identification , Sotheby 's and IFAR exchanged photos by fax 
The cup had been insured 
The theft was discovered early this year 
Sentencing was postponed on Aug. 18 , when Mr. Krisher was hospitalized for depression . 
Two days earlier , his attorney met in a Park Avenue law office with a cartoon dealer who expected to sell 44 of the most important stolen strips to Mr. Russell for $ 62,800 . 
Instead , New York City police seized the stolen goods 
The air-waybill number was changed en route 
The air-waybill number was changed en route , and paper work showing that the crates had cleared customs was misplaced 
Although Heathrow authorities have been watching a group of allegedly crooked baggage handlers for some time , the Gauguin may be `` lost 
The government offered a reward for the return of the antiquities 
As it turned out , Carlos Perches Trevino and Ramon Sardina Garcia had hidden the haul in a closet in the Perches family 's home for a year . 
The artist 's melancholy subjects bring high prices on the world market 
Trompe l'oeil painting is meant to fool the eye 
Ford Motor Co. said it is recalling about 3,600 of its 1990-model Escorts 
Ford Motor Co. said it is recalling about 3,600 of its 1990-model Escorts because the windshield adhesive was improperly applied to some cars . 
When properly applied , the adhesive is designed to retain the windshield in place in a crash test at 30 miles per hour 
Ford said owners should return the cars to dealers 
Both companies will replace the oil filler cap with a ventilated oil filler cap . 
Ford said the term on its warranty is already six years or 60,000 miles . 
Separately , Ford said it will offer $ 750 cash rebates to buyers of its 1990-model Ford Bronco sport utility vehicle . 
It said it will also offer buyers the option of financing as low as 6.9 % on 24-month loans . 
Ford also offered the low financing rate option on 1989-model Broncos 
In its appeal to the high court , the agency said the federal appeals court ruling , which favored LTV , threatened to transform the agency from an insurer of troubled pension plans into an `` open-ended source of industry bailouts . '' 
In January 1987 , as LTV Steel continued operating while under reorganization , the agency terminated the three LTV pension plans 
Termination means that the agency 's insurance assumes the liabilities and pays the pension benefits already owed under the plans 
Because the federal pension agency had taken over the old plans , LTV would be responsible only for benefits paid under the new pension plans 
Because the federal pension agency had taken over the old plans , LTV would be responsible only for benefits paid under the new pension plans . 
But the agency viewed the creation of the new plans as an abuse of federal pension law and an attempt to transfer the liability of the $ 2.3 billion shortfall from LTV to federal insurance . 
The agency also concluded that LTV 's financial status had improved 
LTV challenged the order 
The appeals court said there was no evidence that Congress intended to allow the pension agency to consider a company 's creation of new benefit plans as a basis for ordering that company to reassume liability for old plans . 
In Dallas , LTV said that it was disappointed that the court agreed to hear the case 
In Dallas , LTV said that it was disappointed that the court agreed to hear the case because it believes the move will further delay its Chapter 11 proceedings . 
But LTV , a steel , aerospace and energy concern , said it is confident that the Supreme Court will uphold the lower-court decisions and said it expects to continue discussions with the agency about a settlement 
The Nissan logo flashed on the screen for a moment 
The Nissan logo flashed on the screen for a moment 
By advertising disaster relief , these companies are hoping to don a white hat and come out a hero . 
But the strategy can backfire ; if the ads appear too self-serving , the companies may end up looking like rank opportunists instead of good Samaritans 
At Nissan , `` we felt we wanted to do something to help them gather money 
While TV commercials typically take weeks to produce , advertisers in the past couple of years have learned to turn on a dime , to crash out ads in days or even hours 
The ads are just the latest evidence of how television advertising is getting faster on the draw . 
But as advertisers latch onto disasters with increasing frequency , they risk hurting themselves as much as helping the cause 
`` People see extra messages in advertising 
`` People see extra messages in advertising , and if a manufacturer is clearly trying to get something out of it 
`` People see extra messages in advertising , and if a manufacturer is clearly trying to get something out of it ... if it 's too transparent 
`` It can backfire 
`` It can backfire because companies can step across the line and go too far , be too pushy , '' agrees Gary Stibel , a principal with New England Consulting Group , Westport , Conn . 
Still , he says that only a few of the quake-related campaigns have been `` tasteless 
While the campaign was Mr. Gibbons 's idea , however , he wo n't be paying for it 
Burger King 's chief executive officer , Barry Gibbons , stars in ads saying that the fast-food chain will donate 25 cents to the Red Cross for every purchase of a BK Doubles hamburger . 
While the campaign was Mr. Gibbons 's idea , however , he wo n't be paying for it : The donations will come out of the chain 's national advertising fund , which is financed by the franchisees . 
Burger King 's chief executive officer , Barry Gibbons , stars in ads saying that the fast-food chain will donate 25 cents to the Red Cross for every purchase of a BK Doubles hamburger . 
Toyota 's upscale Lexus division , a sponsor of the World Series , also put in a plug for Red Cross donations in a World Series game it sponsored . 
Nancy Craig , advertising manager for the Red Cross , readily admits `` they 're piggybacking on our reputation . '' 
Nancy Craig , advertising manager for the Red Cross , readily admits `` they 're piggybacking on our reputation . '' 
The Red Cross does n't track contributions raised by the disaster ads 
The Red Cross does n't track contributions raised by the disaster ads , but it has amassed $ 46.6 million 
Northrup King Co. , Golden Valley , Minn. , awarded its $ 4 million field-crop-seeds account to Creswell , Munsell , Fultz & Zirbel , a Cedar Rapids , Iowa , division of Young & Rubicam . 
If he follows the correct path , he may be able to look back on this election as the high-water mark of far-left opposition 
The far left had some good issues 
Unemployment still is officially recorded at 16.5 % , the highest rate in Europe 
Housing is scarce 
It could point to plenty of ailments that the Spanish economic rejuvenation so far has failed to cure . 
In that time more than 1.2 million jobs have been created 
Mr. Gonzalez and his colleagues , particularly the finance minister , Carlos Solchaga , are charged with having abandoned their socialist principles and with having become arrogant elitists who refuse even to go on television -LRB- controlled by the state -RRB- to face their accusers . 
Mr. Gonzalez and his colleagues , particularly the finance minister , Carlos Solchaga , are charged with having abandoned their socialist principles and with having become arrogant elitists who refuse even to go on television -LRB- controlled by the state -RRB- to face their accusers . 
He did not go as far as he could have in tax reductions 
Mr. Gonzalez is not quite a closet supply-side revolutionary , however . He did not go as far as he could have in tax reductions ; indeed he combined them with increases in indirect taxes . 
He could do more to cut public subsidies and transfers 
Just when American liberalism had pulled the arms plug on the Contras and their friend Ronald Reagan , along comes Mr. Ortega in Costa Rica this weekend to `` blunder '' into the hands of what are often called conservatives 
Liberals are the faction that says , Give peace a chance ; now they are saying Mr. Ortega should give them a break 
He knows that making George Bush look silly in a photograph with him will trigger Noriegan fulminations 
Cetus Corp. said the government of Spain approved the marketing of its Proleukin interleukin-2 drug to treat kidney cancer . 
The biotechnology concern said Spanish authorities must still clear the price for the treatment 
In recent testimony on Capitol Hill , Treasury officials said they were considering the new reporting requirements 
Another suggestion would draw banks more directly into tracking down money launderers by developing a `` suspicious international wire transfer profile , '' which banks would use to spotlight questionable payments . 
Banks now are required only to report cash deposits or withdrawals of $ 10,000 or more . 
A Western Union spokesman , citing adverse developments in the market for high-yield `` junk '' bonds , declined to say what alternatives are under consideration . 
Western Union has had major losses in recent years 
Western Union has had major losses in recent years as its telex business has faltered in the face of competition from facsimile machines 
Western Union has had major losses in recent years 
The notes became burdensome 
Western Union must make $ 48 million in interest payments on the reset notes on Dec. 15 
Western Union must make $ 48 million in interest payments on the reset notes on Dec. 15 , and a company spokesman said it fully intends to meet the payments . 
The Nasdaq bank index fell 5.00 to 432.61 
The Nasdaq bank index fell 5.00 to 432.61 , while the insurance index fell 3.56 to 528.56 
The Nasdaq bank index fell 5.00 to 432.61 , while the insurance index fell 3.56 to 528.56 , and the `` other finance '' index dropped 3.27 to 529.32 . The largest financial issues , as measured by the Nasdaq financial index , tumbled 3.23 to 
Tax-loss sellers , those investors who sell loss-making stocks 
He said many portfolio managers , whose year-end bonuses are tied to annual performance , are selling now rather than risk seeing their gains erode further . 
`` The stocks that have been the best are having big pullbacks 
`` We are advising a lot of our clients to make moves that make sense to them , rather than waiting until the last minute 
Weisfield 's surged 14 to 53 
Mid-State Federal Savings Bank advanced 1 1\/2 to 20 1\/4 
Jaguar assumed its recently customary place on the OTC most active list 
Jaguar assumed its recently customary place on the OTC most active list as its American depository receipts gained 1\/4 to 11 7\/8 on volume of 1.2 million shares 
Jaguar assumed its recently customary place on the OTC most active list as its American depository receipts gained 1\/4 to 11 7\/8 on volume of 1.2 million shares and Daimler-Benz joined the list of companies interested in the British car maker . 
Ford has acquired more than 13 % of Jaguar 's shares 
Late Friday , the company reported a loss of $ 51.3 million for the third quarter 
Abraham Lincoln Federal Savings Bank sank 4 to 13 1\/2 
Abraham Lincoln Federal Savings Bank sank 4 to 13 1\/2 after announcing a shakeup that will change senior management and reorganize the bank 's mortgage business as a separate unit . 
The bank , which previously said it was for sale , said it has received no offers and that its board will review whether to continue soliciting bids 
The bank , which previously said it was for sale , said it has received no offers 
Medical scientists are starting to uncover a handful of genes which , if damaged , unleash the chaotic growth of cells that characterizes cancer 
Today , we know that the accumulation of several of these altered genes can initiate a cancer 
When functioning normally , they make proteins that hold a cell 's growth in check 
When functioning normally , they make proteins that hold a cell 's growth in check . 
But if the genes are damaged -- perhaps by radiation , a chemical or through a chance accident in cell division -- their growth-suppressing proteins no longer work , and cells normally under control turn malignant 
But if the genes are damaged -- perhaps by radiation , a chemical or through a chance accident in cell division -- their growth-suppressing proteins no longer work 
Oncogenes must be present for a cell to become malignant 
In recent months , researchers have come to believe the two types of cancer genes work in concert : An oncogene may turn proliferating cells malignant 
Either copy can make the proteins needed to control cell growth 
A person who is born with one defective copy of a suppressor gene , or in whom one copy is damaged early in life , is especially prone to cancer 
The Dedham , Mass. , couple knew even before Bonnie became pregnant in 1987 that any child of theirs had a 50 % chance of being at risk for retinoblastoma , an eye cancer that occurs about once every 20,000 births 
Mr. Quinlan , 30 years old , knew he carried a damaged gene , having lost an eye to the rare tumor 
Mr. Quinlan , 30 years old , knew he carried a damaged gene , having lost an eye to the rare tumor when he was only two months old 
Mr. Quinlan , 30 years old , knew he carried a damaged gene , having lost an eye to the rare tumor when he was only two months old -- after his mother had suffered the same fate 
A test using new `` genetic probes '' showed that little Will Quinlan had not inherited a damaged retinoblastoma supressor gene 
`` All this may not be obvious to the public , which is concerned about advances in treatment 
Dr. Dryja made his retinoblastoma discovery in 1986 . 
Then last spring , researchers reported finding a gene called p53 which , if impaired , turns healthy colon cells cancerous 
There is evidence that if people inherit defective versions of these genes , they are especially prone to cancer 
The tumor , he suggested , developed 
The story of tumor-suppressor genes goes back to the 1970s , when a pediatrician named Alfred G. Knudson Jr. proposed that retinoblastoma stemmed from two separate genetic defects . 
Back then , scientists had no way of ferreting out specific genes 
He assumed the missing piece contained a gene or genes whose loss had a critical role in setting off the cancer . 
But he did n't know which gene or genes had disappeared . 
It was an audacious claim . 
But in Baltimore , Dr. Vogelstein , a young molecular biologist at Johns Hopkins Medical School , believed Dr. Knudson was right , and set out to repeat the Cavenee experiment in cells from other cancers . 
He believed colon cancer might also arise from multiple `` hits '' on cancer suppressor genes 
It often is preceded by the development of polyps in the bowel , which in some cases become increasingly malignant in identifiable stages 
If both copies of a certain gene were knocked out , benign polyps would develop 
If both copies of a second gene were then deleted , the polyps would progress to malignancy 
If both copies of a certain gene were knocked out , benign polyps would develop . 
`` It was the confirming evidence we all needed that -LCB- gene -RCB- losses were critical to the development of a common tumor , '' says Ray White at Howard Hughes Medical Institute in Salt Lake City . 
But Dr. Vogelstein had yet to nail the identity of the gene that , if damaged , flipped a colon cell into full-blown malignancy 
When they found it last winter , Dr. Vogelstein was dubious that the search was over 
The deletion Dr. Vogelstein found was in exactly the same spot as p53 . 
But Mr. Levine had said the p53 gene caused cancer by promoting growth 
Despite that , when the Johns Hopkins scientists compared the gene they had found in the human cancer cells with the Mr. Levine 's p53 gene they found the two were identical 
The scientists say that since breast cancer often strikes multiple members of certain families , the gene , when inherited in a damaged form , may predispose women to the cancer 
The scientists say that since breast cancer often strikes multiple members of certain families , the gene , when inherited in a damaged form , may predispose women to the cancer 
In a report out last week , John Minna and colleagues at the National Cancer Institute say that about half the cells taken from lung cancer tissue they tested are missing this gene . 
Dr. Minna believes people who inherit a defective gene somewhere on one of their two copies of chromosome 3 are especially prone to lung cancer . 
It may even be possible to replace defective genes with healthy versions 
Many investors give Michael Foods about as much chance of getting it together as Humpty Dumpty . 
When the company this month announced lower-than-forecast sales of Easy Eggs , the stock dropped nearly 19 % 
Michael wo n't confirm the identities of any Easy Egg customers 
These federal-court suits accuse the officers of failing to disclose that Easy Eggs were unlikely to sell briskly enough to justify all of Michael 's production capacity . 
But at least Burger King has signed on , and says that by year end it wo n't be using any shell eggs . The Miami fast-food chain , owned by Grand Metropolitan of Britain , expects to consume roughly 34 million pounds of liquefied eggs annually . 
So there is reason to believe that Michael 's hopes for a bacteria-free , long-shelf-life egg were n't all hype . 
There has been no announcement of the Burger King arrangement by either party , possibly for fear that McDonald 's and other fast-food rivals would seize on it in scornful advertising . 
The extent of Marriott 's use is n't known 
`` The stock , in my opinion , is going to go lower , not only because of disappointing earnings 
`` The stock , in my opinion , is going to go lower , not only because of disappointing earnings 
The CEO , Richard G. Olson , replied `` yes , '' but would n't elaborate . 
A spokesman said later that Mr. Olson was being `` conservative '' in his estimate . 
But the spokesman added that while Michael will earn less than last year 's $ 1.20 a share , it thinks Street estimates of $ 1 or so are low 
He argues that Michael Foods is misunderstood : `` This is a growth company in the packaged food industry -- a rare breed , like finding a white rhino . '' Earnings are n't keeping pace , he says , because of heavy investments in the egg technologies and drought-related costs in its potato business . 
Mr. Carver , however , believes the company 's egg product wo n't help the bottom line in the short run 
Burger King , which breaks thousands of fresh eggs each morning , is quietly switching over to an alternative egg product made by Michael Foods . 
Michael , which also processes potatoes , still relies on spuds for about a fourth of its sales and nearly half its pretax profit . 
Company lawyers recently sent letters to growers saying that Michael `` would take very seriously any effort ... to divert its contracted-for potatoes to other outlets . '' 
Pierre Peladeau , a Canadian newspaper publisher little-known in the U.S. , figures to become a big player in North American printing 
The purchase , expected to be completed by year end , will make Quebecor the second-largest commercial printer in North America , behind only R.R. Donnelley & Sons Co. , Chicago . The printing customers that Quebecor will gain through Maxwell Graphics include the Sunday newspaper supplement Parade , Time , Sports Illustrated and TV Guide . 
Quebecor still lags in the Quebec circulars market 
The tabloid 's circulation soared to 80,000 , but plunged to under 10,000 
The tabloid 's circulation soared to 80,000 , but plunged to under 10,000 when the La Presse strike ended . 
Mr. Peladeau took his first big gamble 25 years ago , when he took advantage of a strike at La Presse , then Montreal 's dominant French-language newspaper , to launch the Journal de Montreal . 
A series of recent acquisitions made it the dominant magazine publisher in Quebec . 
After a recent merger , it is also the only province-wide distributor of magazines and newspapers in Quebec . Quebecor also publishes a second tabloid in Montreal , the struggling 18-month-old Montreal Daily News ; dailies in Quebec City and Winnipeg , Manitoba ; and dozens of weeklies covering most of Quebec . Mr. Peladeau took his first big gamble 25 years ago , when he took advantage of a strike at La Presse , then Montreal 's dominant French-language newspaper , to launch the Journal de Montreal . A series of recent acquisitions made it the dominant magazine publisher in Quebec . 
Pierre-Karl Peladeau , the founder 's son and the executive in charge of the acquisition , says Quebecor has n't decided how it will finance its share of the purchase 
The U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission sued New York state for age discrimination against appointed state judges . 
Justice Rubin , a state judge since 1969 , said the mandatory-retirement age hurts the court system 
Because Justice Rubin turned 76 on May 9 , he is n't eligible to be reappointed to the bench at the end of the year 
The suit , assigned to federal Judge Kimba Wood , seeks a permanent injunction , back pay for judges who have been forced to retire , reinstatement of retired judges and `` other affirmative relief necessary to eradicate the effects of -LRB- New York 's -RRB- unlawful employment practices . '' 
Most New York judges are elected 
Under New York law , elected judges must retire at age 70 
Under New York law , elected judges must retire at age 70 , but then can be appointed to two-year terms 
A spokeswoman for the state 's Office of Court Administration declined to comment on the suit . 
Most New York judges are elected , and the federal age-discrimination law does n't apply to elected officials , said James L. Lee , regional attorney for the EEOC in New York . 
Mr. Thornburgh will be free to disband the strike forces after Congress approves a $ 479 million appropriation for federal law-enforcement and drug-interdiction agencies , according to David Runkel , a Justice Department spokesman 
They predict that organized-crime activity will increase 
They predict that organized-crime activity will increase once the units are dissolved 
The Eastern District unit in Brooklyn , N.Y. , lost seven of its 15 attorneys this year 
Some former strike-force personnel say the units have already begun to break up . 
He says 27 lawyers have left 
He says 27 lawyers have left and 21 have been hired 
A spokesman for Sen. Edward M. Kennedy -LRB- D. , Mass . -RRB- says Mr. Thornburgh would be required to reinstate the units next year 
Shelly Hancock , a male county court judge in Houston , refused to let a woman plead guilty to a drunk-driving charge 
The woman appeared in court Thursday to enter her plea 
The woman appeared in court Thursday to enter her plea , but when she started to approach the bench , she was stopped by Judge Hancock 
Warner has filed a $ 1 billion breach of contract suit in Los Angeles Superior Court against Sony and the Guber-Peters duo 
Although settlement talks had been dropped , attorneys for the two sides apparently began talking again yesterday in an attempt to settle the matter before Thursday 
Warner was referring to documents filed last week in which Sony Corp. of America Vice Chairman Michael Schulof and Walter Yetnikoff , president of its CBS Records unit , said they had taken Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters at their word 
Wayne Smith , an attorney at Gibson , Dunn & Crutcher in Los Angeles representing Sony , said the Sony executives had n't seen the contract 
Wayne Smith , an attorney at Gibson , Dunn & Crutcher in Los Angeles representing Sony , said the Sony executives had n't seen the contract because `` it was n't relevant 
Mr. Smith said statements about the contract made in SEC filings were made by attorneys who did have access to the contracts 
Yesterday , in documents filed in connection with that case , Warner accused Sony officials of falsely claiming that they never read the five-year contract requiring the two producers to make movies exclusively for Columbia , citing Securities and Exchange Commission filings made by Sony that described the contracts . 
Warner executives also filed new sworn affidavits denying claims by Messrs. Guber and Peters that the two sides had an oral agreement that enabled the producers to terminate their contract with Warner should the opportunity to run a major studio come up . 
Warner executives also filed new sworn affidavits denying claims by Messrs. Guber and Peters that the two sides had an oral agreement that enabled the producers to terminate their contract with Warner should the opportunity to run a major studio come up . 
But Mr. Smith said Sony intends to prove that the oral agreement did in fact exist 
Warner described as `` nonsense '' yesterday Sony 's assertions in prior court filings that Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters could in theory run Columbia 
Such a dual role would be `` impractical and unethical , '' Warner said , adding , `` that concept is as silly as suggesting that the head coach of the Los Angeles Dodgers could simultaneously be general manager of the San Francisco Giants . '' 
Boeing Co. 's third-quarter profit leaped 68 % 
Boeing Co. 's third-quarter profit leaped 68 % , but Wall Street 's attention was focused on the picket line , not the bottom line . 
In fact , the earnings report unfolded 
Doug Hammond , the federal mediator in Seattle , where Boeing is based , said the parties will continue to sit down daily 
Doug Hammond , the federal mediator in Seattle , where Boeing is based , said the parties will continue to sit down daily until a new settlement proposal emerges 
Sales climbed 71 % to $ 6.36 billion from $ 3.72 billion 
Because it 's impossible to gauge how long the walkout by 55,000 Machinists rank and file will last , the precise impact on Boeing 's sales , earnings , cash flow and short-term investment position could n't be determined 
Despite the progress , Boeing indicated that the work stoppage , now in its 27th day , will have `` a serious adverse impact '' on the current quarter . 
The investment community , however , strongly believes that the strike will be settled 
Although the company could see fourth-quarter revenue shrink by nearly $ 5 billion if it is n't able to deliver any more planes this year , those dollars actually would just be deferred until 1990 
Although the company could see fourth-quarter revenue shrink by nearly $ 5 billion 
Although the company could see fourth-quarter revenue shrink by nearly $ 5 billion if it is n't able to deliver any more planes this year , those dollars actually would just be deferred until 1990 . 
Before the union rejected the company 's offer and the strike was launched with the graveyard shift of Oct. 4 , Boeing had been counting on turning 96 aircraft out the door in the present period 
Before the union rejected the company 's offer 
`` It 's not a pretty picture , '' said David Smith , an analyst with Raymond James & Associates . 
Phillip Brannon of Merrill Lynch Capital Markets added : `` You do n't want to minimize this and say nobody is looking at it . 
That 's the primary reason the company 's share price has held up so well 
That 's the primary reason the company 's share price has held up so well when , in Mr. Smith 's words , `` most companies would have unraveled '' by now . 
In a statement , Chairman Frank Shrontz asserted that the company `` faces significant challenges and risks , '' on both its commercial and government contracts . 
For instance , he noted that spending on Pentagon programs is shrinking 
Because of cost overruns on fixed-price military work , Mr. Shrontz said , the company 's defense business will record `` a significant loss '' in 1989 . 
Suppliers and subcontractors are experiencing heightened pressure to support delivery schedules . 
Besides the Machinists pact , accords representing 30,000 of the company 's engineering and technical employees in the Puget Sound and Wichita , Kan. , areas expire in early December . 
On top of that , Boeing would make cost-of-living adjustments projected to be 5 % for each year of the contract . 
In a separate matter , the Justice Department yesterday said Boeing agreed to pay the government $ 11 million to settle claims that the company provided inaccurate cost information to the Air Force 
`` This is virgin territory , unclaimed 
TransCanada declined to comment on the Foothills application . 
But last week Gerald Maier , president and chief executive officer of TransCanada , said the company `` intends to be a party to any transportation system that goes up there 
A number of issues still need to be resolved 
Kent Jesperson , president of Foothills , said the company believes the project would be viable 
First , the price of natural gas will have to almost double . 
Robert Pierce , chairman and chief executive of Foothills , said it 's too early to say whether Alaskan or Mackenzie delta gas would flow to market first . 
If that option is favored by gas buyers and regulators , Foothills said it would build another smaller pipeline connecting Mackenzie Delta reserves to the Alaska mainline 
U.S. gas buyers must also decide whether they want to enter firm contracts for Mackenzie delta gas or develop Alaskan reserves in the Prudhoe Bay area first , a project that has been on hold for more than a decade . 
It 's also likely that regulators will try to forge some kind of consensus between the would-be pipeline builders 
Interprovincial Pipe Line Co. , an oil pipeline operator rumored to be mulling a gas pipeline proposal of its own , said that is n't in the cards . 
As for Foothills ' pre-emptive bid , Mr. Haskayne said , `` If they think it gives them some kind of priority position , well , that 's their strategy 
In recent years , unions and community groups have won big commitments from banks to make low-interest loans in certain neighborhoods by threatening to hold up proposed acquisitions with protests to the Fed about reinvestment act compliance . 
First Union , with assets of about $ 32 billion , said it was disappointed by the delay 
Florida National , if acquired , would almost double First Union 's banking franchise in Florida to $ 17 billion in assets 
Texas Air has run into difficulty reselling about $ 20 million of debt securities because of problems in the junk bond market , the person said . 
It is unclear what caused the creditors to do an about-face on exploring alternatives to Eastern 's new reorganization plan . 
However , since Eastern first filed for Chapter 11 protection March 9 , it has consistently promised to pay creditors 100 cents on the dollar 
Because the carrier is still pledging to do that , some committee members successfully argued that there 's little reason yet to explore a different plan , according to one person familiar with the creditors ' position 
He said only that the committee has not yet taken any position on Eastern 's reorganization plan 
Such a change meant the reorganization plan the creditors had agreed on was no longer valid 
The move comes 
Munich-based Allianz 's brief explanatory statement said it is acting to protect its own interests as a shareholder of Navigation Mixte . 
Allianz 's entry reflects the increasing eagerness of West German companies , looking ahead to the reduction in European Community internal barriers in 1992 , to get involved in what until now were considered internal French affairs . 
Commerzbank had hoped to buy a stake in Credit Lyonnais 
`` The banks we think would fit into our concept are either government-owned or not for sale 
While Allianz officials were n't willing to comment in any detail on their plans , they said Allianz currently holds between 5 % and 10 % of Navigation Mixte , an apparent increase from the 5 % stake that Navigation Mixte officials had earlier announced 
Paris market sources said they believed Allianz was buying yesterday morning 
While Allianz officials were n't willing to comment in any detail on their plans , they said Allianz currently holds between 5 % and 10 % of Navigation Mixte , an apparent increase from the 5 % stake that Navigation Mixte officials had earlier announced . 
Allianz also holds a 50 % stake in Navigation Mixte 's insurance subsidiary , one of France 's largest insurance groups , which it bought for about 6.5 billion francs 
Allianz 's statement stressed the company 's previously announced position that Paribas 's offer price is too low . 
The problem here , analysts say , is that if Paribas wins its 66.7 % , remaining Navigation Mixte shares will fall in value 
That displeases many current holders , such as Allianz , which could n't be sure of selling all their shares 
It said simply that it will boost its Navigation Mixte stake as it sees fit over the coming days to protect itself 
Paribas currently intends to offer 1,850 francs a share for Navigation Mixte shares that receive full dividends this year . It is to offer 1,800 francs for shares created on July 1 , which receive partial dividends . 
Paribas already holds about 18.7 % of Navigation Mixte 
The bid values Navigation Mixte at around 23 billion francs , depending on how many holders of Navigation Mixte warrants exchange them for shares 
MiniScribe has been on the rocks 
The thrift hired an investment banker earlier this month to advise it regarding a possible sale or merger . 
Rally 's , a fast-food chain based in Louisville , Ky. , is contending that Mr. Sugarman and two other company directors failed to disclose to the Securities and Exchange Commission that they intended to acquire a big Rally stake . 
The ad agency had approached Ms. Midler about appearing 
The ad agency had approached Ms. Midler about appearing , but she declined , citing a longstanding policy of refusing advertising work . 
The appeals court held : `` When a distinctive voice of a professional singer is widely known and is deliberately imitated in order to sell a product , the sellers have appropriated what is not theirs 
The award , although far less than the $ 10 million , including punitive damages , that Ms. Midler sought , is likely to force Madison Avenue to further rethink how they use famous songs in ads 
The award , although far less than the $ 10 million , including punitive damages , that Ms. Midler sought , is likely to force Madison Avenue to further rethink how they use famous songs in ads . 
The appeals-court decision last year was particularly surprising 
`` One thing that is a little unnerving is that you had three old men on the court of appeals in California coming up with a statement that Nancy Sinatra is not distinctive 
I am not sure that judges , many of whom I like very much , are proper repositories for making distinctions about pop singers , '' said Richard Kurnit , a New York advertising lawyer . 
James River Corp. , Richmond , Va. , said it acquired the tissue operations of Buhrmann-Tetterode N.V. of the Netherlands for about $ 77 million . 
Since Anchor is still seeking this waiver , Vitro said the tender offer is being extended until 5 p.m. EST tomorrow 
Some analysts predict that in the absence of market-moving news to push the U.S. unit sharply higher or lower , the currency is likely to drift below 1.80 marks this week . 
While sterling bounced back from session lows in a bout of short-covering yesterday , foreign exchange dealers said that any hopes that the pound would soon post significant gains have evaporated 
At the same time , a recent poll shows that Mrs. Thatcher has hit the lowest popularity rating of any British leader 
Traders said that statements made over the weekend to quell concern about the stability of Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher 's government and the future of her economic program largely failed to reassure investors and bolster the flagging British unit . 
According to one London-based analyst , even higher interest rates wo n't help the pound 
According to one London-based analyst , even higher interest rates wo n't help the pound if Britain 's government continues to appear unstable . 
One U.S. trader , however , dismissed sterling doomsayers 
`` There is no question that the situation is bad 
He predicts the pound will continue to trade in a very volatile fashion , with `` fits of being oversold and overbought 
He predicts the pound will continue to trade in a very volatile fashion , with `` fits of being oversold and overbought '' before recovering its losses . 
GE Capital said Commercial Federal Savings will continue to market Visa and MasterCard programs 
As the country 's new leader , Egon Krenz , prepared to travel to Moscow today for talks with Soviet leader Gorbachev , hundreds of thousands of East Germans massed in the streets of Leipzig , Halle and Schwerin to call for internal freedoms and the legalization of the New Forum opposition group 
As the country 's new leader , Egon Krenz , prepared to travel to Moscow today for talks with Soviet leader Gorbachev , hundreds of thousands of East Germans massed in the streets of Leipzig , Halle and Schwerin to call for internal freedoms and the legalization of the New Forum opposition group . 
If convicted , they could be sentenced to death 
A court in Jerusalem sentenced a Palestinian to 16 life terms for forcing a bus off a cliff July 6 , killing 16 people , Israeli radio reported . 
While the Kremlin has urged a ban on output of the poison gases , the White House wants to continue producing the weapons even after an international treaty calling for their destruction is signed 
While the Kremlin has urged a ban on output of the poison gases , the White House wants to continue producing the weapons 
Baker 's remarks came 
Chinese officials said armed police would replace soldiers in Tiananmen Square as part of a scaling down of Beijing 's five-month-old state of emergency . 
As rescue teams continued searching for victims , hundreds of suvivors accused the government of a feeble response following the temblors 
Britain 's Thatcher summoned senior advisers for strategy talks 
Lawmakers in Hungary approved legislation granting amnesty to many people convicted of crimes punishable by less than three years in prison . 
In the first nine months of 1989 , Nixdorf said , sales rose 5 % amid good growth in selected areas such as banks and trading companies . 
The tender offer , which surprised analysts 
GE 's Kidder Peabody unit said it would stop doing stock-index arbitrage for its own account 
Two more securities firms bowed to the outcry over program trading . 
The Supreme Court let stand a New York ruling that all manufacturers of an anti-miscarriage drug are liable for injuries or deaths 
Boeing posted a 68 % jump in third-quarter earnings 
Sam Ginn , chairman and chief executive officer , told securities analysts in New York that the company expects somewhat slower per-share earnings growth in 1990 
Sam Ginn , chairman and chief executive officer , told securities analysts in New York that the company expects somewhat slower per-share earnings growth in 1990 
As factors contributing to the temporary slowdown , he cited one-time rate reductions prescribed by California regulators as a prelude to a new framework that removes profit constraints . 
The engine plant may encompass plans for a joint components venture with Jaguar . 
When it announced the planned breakup in May , Cray Research said development costs of several competing projects were squeezing its earnings growth 
Chairman Carl L. Bixby said the decline occurred 
Priam Corp. said it filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the federal Bankruptcy Code and announced a 35 % reduction in its world-wide employment . 
The company yesterday also said it was scrapping one of its major new products , a 760-megabyte drive , which , while technically proficient , did n't hold much promise of generating substantial orders 
The company yesterday also said it was scrapping one of its major new products , a 760-megabyte drive , which , while technically proficient , did n't hold much promise of generating substantial orders 
The ministry said the swap , details of which were disclosed last Thursday , will allow both state-controlled companies to reinforce operations in their main markets and argued that the move shows the dynamism of France 's state-sector concerns . 
The move will help the bank to keep up with international solvency ratios being phased in by the Bank for International Settlements 
Japanese companies have long been accused of sacrificing profit to boost sales . 
Fujitsu said it issued the low bid 
`` We desperately wanted the contract 
`` We expect a big market in the future 
`` I understand the firm 's enthusiasm in getting the deal 
`` I understand the firm 's enthusiasm in getting the deal , but such a large company would have been better off showing a little more discretion . '' 
The Fujitsu spokeswoman said headquarter officials did n't approve the bid in advance and will take measures 
Japan 's biggest computer maker last week undercut seven competitors to win a contract to design a mapping system for the city of Hiroshima 's waterworks . 
A waterworks official said Fujitsu will have to design the system 
A waterworks official said Fujitsu will have to design the system so it would be compatible with other makers ' equipment . 
Japanese local governments are expected to invest heavily in computer systems over the next few years 
No foreign companies bid on the Hiroshima project , according to the bureau . 
Karstadt AG said sales for its domestic group rose 4.6 % in the first nine months of 1989 from a year earlier . 
Earnings at the department-store division , which generates the bulk of profit , should remain at least stable 
Executives at Nekoosa could n't be reached 
Executives at Nekoosa could n't be reached , and officials at Georgia Pacific declined to comment . 
Analysts , however , were surprised 
The two companies would appear to be a logical fit because of their complementary lines 
The two companies would appear to be a logical fit because of their complementary lines , and analysts described the offer , representing a 36 % premium over Nekoosa 's market price , as fair . 
The two companies would appear to be a logical fit because of their complementary lines , and analysts described the offer , representing a 36 % premium over Nekoosa 's market price , as fair . 
While Georgia-Pacific 's stock has outperformed the market in the past two years , Nekoosa has lagged the market in the same period 
According to the Value Line Investment Survey , demand for Nekoosa 's commodity paper has weakened , prompting earnings to decline by 6.6 % in the third quarter ended Sept. 30 . 
By contrast , Value Line said Georgia-Pacific `` is in a comparatively good position to deal with weakening paper markets 
By contrast , Value Line said Georgia-Pacific `` is in a comparatively good position to deal with weakening paper markets , '' because its production is concentrated not in the Northwest but in the South , where it should be able to avoid some of the cost pressures from rising wood-chip prices . 
The purchase of Nekoosa would easily eclipse Georgia-Pacific 's $ 530 million acquisition of Brunswick Pulp & Paper Co. last year . 
Analog Devices Inc. said it may purchase as many as one million of its common shares over the next several months . 
The resulting haunted house tends to reward followership , not leadership , it creates guilt about wearing the uniform , and raises doubt about having the will to fulfill the ghosts ' role , i.e. , to be able to win 
Mr. Lehman overlooks the fact that the Navy possesses its own air force -LRB- the carrier fleet -RRB- and its own army -LRB- the Marines -RRB- 
Of course these turf battles are unseemly , wasteful and potentially dangerous and should be resolved in the interest of national security 
Is n't this the same guy who resigned as Navy secretary 
I personally do not want to hasten Mr. Lehman 's demise 
Mr. Lorenzo , 49 years old , is reclaiming the job that was his 
Succeeding him as chairman and chief executive will be Frank Lorenzo , chairman and chief executive of Continental 's parent , Texas Air Corp . 
Top executives at Continental have n't lasted long , especially those recruited from outside . 
The 48-year-old Mr. Corr was hired 
The 48-year-old Mr. Corr was hired largely because he was credited with returning Trans World Airlines Inc. to profitability 
Before that , he was an executive with a manufacturing concern 
At Continental he cut money-losing operations , which helped produce a modest profit in this year 's second quarter . 
While not officially an executive at Continental during Mr. Corr 's tenure , Mr. Lorenzo is known for keeping close tabs on Texas Air 's operating units 
It 's unclear what role , if any , Mr. Lorenzo 's recent exploration of a possible sale of a stake in Continental had in Mr. Corr 's departure . 
Another longtime ally , Phil Bakes , currently heads Eastern , now in Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings . 
The company acquired the debt 
The percent difference compares actual profit with the 30-day estimate where at least three analysts have issues forecasts in the past 30 days . 
That is 
Ever since the link to cholesterol was disclosed , Americans have begun scarfing up psyllium in their breakfast cereals 
If further research proves the seed 's benefits , this dusty farm district could become the epicenter of a health-food fad to rival all fads since cod-liver oil 
Arvind Patel , a processor and exporter of the seed , raves : `` If psyllium takes the place of oat bran , it will be huge 
Local farmers say it is as good a cash crop as mustard or fenugreek , a legume . 
Psyllium is an annual herb , Plantago ovata , that has been used for centuries by folk doctors here , mainly as a laxative and anti-diarrheal . 
For decades , psyllium husk has been the main ingredient in such laxatives as Procter & Gamble Co. 's Metamucil , the top-selling brand in the U.S. , and Ciba-Geigy Corp. 's Fiberall . 
For decades , psyllium husk has been the main ingredient in such laxatives as Procter & Gamble Co. 's Metamucil , the top-selling brand in the U.S. , and Ciba-Geigy Corp. 's Fiberall . 
The FDA has asked Kellogg and General Mills to show research that their cereals are safe . 
The FDA has asked Kellogg and General Mills to show research that their cereals are safe . It also ordered P&G to produce more studies to buttress its claims that Metamucil can lower cholesterol . 
If the FDA approves the new uses of psyllium , other companies are expected to rush to market with psyllium products 
`` It 's going to be a sensational thing , '' says Mr. Krishnamurthy of P&G in Bombay . Says psyllium exporter Mr. Patel : `` I just got back yesterday from the U.S. . In the newspapers , on the radio and TV , psyllium is everywhere . '' 
They only know of one use for the crop , as a laxative 
You get a rain at the wrong time 
They want psyllium prices low for their purchases next year . 
Small crops are grown in Pakistan , France , Spain , Italy , Belgium and Brazil 
Big buyers like Procter & Gamble say there are other spots on the globe , and in India , where the seed could be grown . 
Many farmers , too removed to glean psyllium 's new sparkle in the West , have decided to plant mustard , fennel , cumin , fenugreek or castor-oil seeds . 
So when next year 's psyllium crop is harvested in March , it may be smaller than the 16,000 metric tons of the past few years -- right at the crest of the psyllium boom 
So when next year 's psyllium crop is harvested in March , it may be smaller than the 16,000 metric tons of the past few years -- right at the crest of the psyllium boom . 
Small businesses say a recent trend is like a dream come true : more-affordable rates for employee-health insurance , initially at least . 
Small businesses say a recent trend is like a dream come true : more-affordable rates for employee-health insurance , initially at least . 
The reasonable first-year rates can be followed by increases of 60 % or more 
Insurance premiums for one small Maryland concern went up 130 % in less than two years , the last increase coming 
She said her employer ca n't afford the rate increases 
The House Energy and Commerce Committee 's health subcommittee , headed by Democratic Rep. Henry Waxman of California , is looking into complaints that small businesses not only ca n't keep reasonably priced employee-health insurance 
The House Energy and Commerce Committee 's health subcommittee , headed by Democratic Rep. Henry Waxman of California , is looking into complaints that small businesses not only ca n't keep reasonably priced employee-health insurance if claims are filed , but often ca n't get coverage at all 
What we 're seeing now makes a mockery of the idea of insurance : collect premiums from the healthy , dump the sick 
As larger companies increasingly self-insure , or use reserves to pay their own workers ' medical bills , the insurance industry has turned to the small-employer market that was once a backwater for them 
`` Insurance companies will offer a good rate 
`` Insurance companies will offer a good rate if no one is sick 
`` One case of cancer or a high-risk pregnancy with a sick infant 
Small-business people end up paying insurance premiums worth two to three times the cost of one illness . '' 
In addition , the group says some of its member companies have been denied insurance 
The Health Insurance Association of America , an insurers ' trade group , acknowledges that stiff competition among its members to insure businesses likely to be good risks during the first year of coverage has aggravated the problem in the small-business market . 
They say insurance companies use policies aimed at excluding bad risks 
They say insurance companies use policies aimed at excluding bad risks because their competitors do . 
But the general practice makes it more difficult to combine small groups of people into larger groups 
`` You ca n't ask one carrier to underwrite on social grounds 
The proposal is just part of legislation that would require businesses to provide health benefits , an idea that is strongly opposed by small business who say it would just compound the insurance-cost problems . 
But small-business lobbyists say they support the idea , included in the Kennedy-Waxman bill , of new laws or regulations requiring greater use of community rating , which pegs rates to the use of health care by a community or other large group , and is designed to prevent insurance companies from taking only low-risk small companies as clients . 
`` Before the state of Wisconsin mandated that mental-health care be covered , there were only 70 mental-health clinics in the state 
But first on the list of priorities , says the National Federation of Independent Business , is to prohibit state laws requiring the inclusion of specialty items , such as psychiatric care , in basic health plans . 
The complexities of the insurance problem make the outcome difficult to predict . 
`` What good is having health insurance 
Belgium 's inflation has been rising steadily for the past year 
Nashua , whose major business is selling copiers , facsimile machines and related supplies , said Reiss & Co . B.V. of the Netherlands filed a request with the Federal Trade Commission under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Act for permission to buy more than $ 15 million of Nashua 's stock but less than 25 % . 
Nashua 's stock has fluctuated sharply on takeover speculation , rising to a high for the year of $ 42.875 a share in June from $ 29.75 in March . 
Nashua announced the Reiss request 
The company said it amended its shareholder rights plan by reducing to 10 % from 20 % the level of ownership by an outsider that would trigger the issuance to other holders of rights to buy additional shares of Nashua common at half price . 
Alex Henderson , an analyst at Prudential-Bache Securities , said that while Nashua 's performance this year has been `` atrocious , '' the company nonetheless is attractive as a `` classic breakup candidate 
Alex Henderson , an analyst at Prudential-Bache Securities , said that while Nashua 's performance this year has been `` atrocious 
Alex Henderson , an analyst at Prudential-Bache Securities , said that while Nashua 's performance this year has been `` atrocious , '' the company nonetheless is attractive as a `` classic breakup candidate 
The current account deficit on France 's balance of payments narrowed to 1.48 billion French francs -LRB- $ 236.8 million -RRB- in August from a revised 2.1 billion francs in July , the Finance Ministry said . 
A spokesman for the retail jeweler said the company would provide more details today 
Manufacturers have survived the turmoil in China largely unscathed . Signs of revival seem evident in Hong Kong 's hard-hit hotel sector . 
But in the stock and real-estate markets , activity remains spotty 
These benefits seem secure despite China 's current economic and political troubles . 
But to Hong Kong , China is n't purely business . 
That promise sounds shaky 
Outflows of people and capital from Hong Kong have been growing 
Only four months have passed since the Beijing massacre 
It may experience an upswing or two in between . 
But with local investors shaken by China 's political and economic turmoil , she says , a genuine recovery may not arrive 
Since the China crisis erupted , Mr. Mushkat says , the scenario as depicted by the middle-of-the-road group bears a remarkable resemblance to the difficulties Hong Kong currently faces 
Such a pace of growth , though respectable for mature industrialized economies , would be unusually slow for Hong Kong 
Given Hong Kong 's record , Mr. Mushkat 's `` realists '' might have sounded unduly conservative 
After taking into account the fallout from the China crisis , the government has projected 1989 GDP growth of 5 % 
Sir Piers Jacobs , Hong Kong 's financial secretary , says a further downward revision may be justified 
`` We are n't looking at anything like a doomsday scenario , '' he says . 
The market has grown relatively quiet since the China crisis . 
But if the Japanese return in force , their financial might could compensate to some extent for local investors ' waning commitment 
Even before the China crisis , weak U.S. demand was slowing local economic growth . 
Conversely , strong consumer spending in the U.S. two years ago helped propel the local economy at more than twice its current rate . 
Once external conditions , such as U.S. demand , swing in the territory 's favor , they argue , local businessmen will probably overcome their 1997 worries and continue doing business as usual 
Indeed , a few economists maintain that global forces will continue to govern Hong Kong 's economic rhythm . 
Many are refugees , having fled China 's unending cycles of political repression and poverty 
Many are refugees , having fled China 's unending cycles of political repression and poverty since the Communist Party took power in 1949 . 
While no one professes to know the exact cost of such a `` brain drain '' to the economy , hardly anyone doubts that it poses a threat 
`` When the economy loses a big portion of its work force that also happens to include its most productive members , economic growth is bound to be affected 
`` When the economy loses a big portion of its work force 
While Wall Street is retreating from computer-driven program trading , big institutional investors are likely to continue these strategies at full blast 
Though the trading halts are offered as a sign of concern about recent stock market volatility , most Wall Street firms remain open to handle program trading for customers 
These huge stock-index funds build portfolios that match the S&P 500 stock index or other stock indexes , and frequently swap between stocks and futures to capture profits . 
Consequently , abrupt swings in the stock market are not likely to disappear anytime soon , they say . 
Stock-index funds have grown in popularity over the past decade 
Some stock-index funds are huge . 
Stock-index funds frequently use the futures markets as a hedging tool 
The 190-point plunge in the stock market Oct. 13 has heightened concerns about volatility . 
And while signs of an economic slowdown , softer corporate earnings and troubles with takeover financing all have contributed to the stock market 's recent weakness , many investors rushed to blame program trading for aggravating market swings 
Last Tuesday , Kemper Corp. 's Kemper Financial Services Inc. unit said it would no longer trade with firms committed to stock-index arbitrage , including the three that later suspended stock-index arbitrage trading on Friday . 
Though it is still doing stock-index arbitrage trades for customers , Morgan Stanley 's trading halt for its own account is likely to shake up firms such as Kidder , Peabody & Co. that still do such trades for their own account 
Though it is still doing stock-index arbitrage trades for customers , Morgan Stanley 's trading halt for its own account is likely to shake up firms such as Kidder , Peabody & Co. that still do such trades for their own account . 
Joining the call for some kind of study or regulatory action , Merrill Lynch & Co. recommended program-trading reforms late Friday , including higher margins on stock-index futures and greater regulatory coordination . 
Margin rules determine the minimum amount of cash an investor must put up 
Stock-index arbitrage , because it sells the more `` expensive '' market and buys the `` cheaper '' one , attempts to reestablish the link between the stock and futures markets 
Stock-index arbitrage , because it sells the more `` expensive '' market and buys the `` cheaper '' one , attempts to reestablish the link between the stock and futures markets 
Stock-index arbitrage , because it sells the more `` expensive '' market and buys the `` cheaper '' one , attempts to reestablish the link between the stock and futures markets , and the adjustments are often abrupt . 
Put these together 
Because the show has acquired a sense of place by being filmed on location in Georgia , this episode -- in which Althea gets raped by an arrogant white schoolteacher -- does a decent job of tracing the social repercussions of the crime 
Obviously , it 's harder to establish a sense of place in a one-shot TV movie . 
This tale of a Chicago policewoman returning home to find the man who raped her 20 years earlier is supposed to be set in the Ozarks . 
'' Mr. Sohmer confesses that it was partly in response to such attitudes that he is now `` a dweller on one of the two islands off the coast of America . '' 
The sole sympathetic character is the prodigal daughter Kate -LRB- Jaclyn Smith -RRB- 
I mean , these folks are so uptight that they blame pretty Kate for the fact that when she was a teen-ager , someone tied her hands behind her back , thrust her head into a gunny sack , brutally raped and beat her , and then left her to die in a cold-storage room 
I mean , these folks are so uptight that they blame pretty Kate for the fact that when she was a teen-ager , someone tied her hands behind her back , thrust her head into a gunny sack , brutally raped and beat her 
Her Pa -LRB- Howard Duff -RRB- is the kind of guy who , while saying grace at the supper table , pauses at the word `` sin '' and glares at the daughter he has n't seen for two decades 
Her Pa -LRB- Howard Duff -RRB- is the kind of guy who , while saying grace at the supper table , pauses at the word `` sin '' and glares at the daughter he has n't seen for two decades 
People like Pa do exist , of course . 
Add the fact that any one of them , including Pa , could be her attacker 
Josh makes clumsy passes at Kate 
Josh makes clumsy passes at Kate when she 's seething with anger and fear 
As for Lincoln , if you ca n't guess why he 's so sweet to his sister when everybody else hates her 
As for Lincoln , if you ca n't guess why he 's so sweet to his sister 
Her sister-in-law -LRB- Amy Wright -RRB- is a sniveling prude afraid that Kate will seduce all the married men in town , including a particularly loathsome fellow named Tucker , whose idea of fun is to leave his wife at home tending to her bruises and cigarette burns 
Her sister-in-law -LRB- Amy Wright -RRB- is a sniveling prude afraid that Kate will seduce all the married men in town , including a particularly loathsome fellow named Tucker , whose idea of fun is to leave his wife at home tending to her bruises and cigarette burns , while he bullies Kate into a dance that consists of drooling on her 
As for the women , they 're pathetic . 
In the aforementioned episode of `` In the Heat of the Night , '' we saw Althea being attacked 
In the aforementioned episode of `` In the Heat of the Night , '' we saw Althea being attacked , but we were n't invited to enjoy the spectacle . 
In Mr. Sohmer 's film , by contrast , we are urged to share the perverse excitement of the rapist creeping up on his victim 
'' Or the one in which she and Josh are stranded in the city 
'' Or the one in which she and Josh are stranded in the city , and , after insisting on separate motel rooms , she knocks on his door to pour out her feelings about the rape -- wearing nothing but a mini-slip and a push-up bra 
Crossland Savings Bank 's stock plummeted 
Crossland Savings Bank 's stock plummeted after management recommended a suspension of dividend payments on both its common and preferred stock 
A spokesman said the savings bank may not qualify for the capital requirements 
Crossland Savings Bank 's stock plummeted after management recommended a suspension of dividend payments on both its common and preferred stock because Crossland may not meet the new government capital criteria effective Dec. 7 . In composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange Friday , Crossland closed at $ 5.25 , down $ 1.875 , a 26 % decline . 
The spokesman said that the proposed guidelines caused Crossland to revise its business objectives 
Net interest income for the third quarter declined to $ 35.6 million from $ 70.1 million a year ago . 
Standard & Poor 's Corp. lowered the rating on Crossland 's preferred stock to double-C from single-B-minus and placed it on CreditWatch for possible further downgrade . 
Open it 
No 
ABC has n't had much luck with shows featuring blacks in recent years 
ABC has n't had much luck with shows featuring blacks in recent years , and the producers of one new arrival are a bit desperate . 
Using direct mail for a TV show is like fishing for whale with a breaded hook . It just is n't done . 
Using direct mail for a TV show is like fishing for whale with a breaded hook . It just is n't done . But employing this kind of gut-wrenching plea to black consciousness makes it even more unusual . 
`` The grapevine is n't organized 
I want white America to talk about it , too 
ABC says it is aware of the producers ' action 
ABC says it is aware of the producers ' action , but the mailing was sent without the network 's blessing . 
ABC says it is aware of the producers ' action , but the mailing was sent without the network 's blessing . 
Meanwhile , as the Sunday evening show struggles to stay afloat against the tough competition of `` Murder , She Wrote , '' the grapevine idea is threatening to turn into a weed 
Meanwhile , as the Sunday evening show struggles to stay afloat against the tough competition of `` Murder , She Wrote , '' the grapevine idea is threatening to turn into a weed : The tactic apparently has inspired sample viewings 
Some shows just do n't impress 
Since the cost of transporting gas is so important to producers ' ability to sell it , it helps to have input and access to transportation companies 
Since its founding in 1818 , Brooks Brothers , the standard-bearer of the Ivy League look , has eschewed flashy sales promotions and fashion trends -- the rules that most retailers live by . 
But with sales growth sluggish and other men 's stores putting on the heat , the venerable retailer can no longer afford such a smug attitude . 
One ad shows a bright red jacket paired with a black leather skirt . 
When acquired in May 1988 by British retailer Marks & Spencer PLC , Brooks Brothers ' annual operating profit was about $ 41.8 million on sales of $ 290.1 million 
As Brooks Brothers jumps into the fashion fray , it will be playing catch up 
Many clothiers , especially Ralph Lauren , have cashed in on the recent popularity of updated Ivy League and English styles . In keeping with men 's broader fashion scope today , businessmen are dabbling in English and Italian suits that are conservative but not stodgy . 
Many clothiers , especially Ralph Lauren , have cashed in on the recent popularity of updated Ivy League and English styles . In keeping with men 's broader fashion scope today , businessmen are dabbling in English and Italian suits that are conservative but not stodgy . The rigid Ivy League customer , Brooks Brothers ' bread and butter , meanwhile is becoming extinct . 
If it promotes fashion too much , the shop risks alienating its old-line customers 
By making a break from tradition , Brooks Brothers is seeking a delicate balance . If it promotes fashion too much , the shop risks alienating its old-line customers ; by emphasizing `` value , '' it risks watering down its high-minded mystique . 
Fashion industry consultants also question whether the company can make significant strides in its women 's business , given that its customer base is less established 
Marks & Spencer plans to open roughly 18 more U.S. stores in the next five years . 
Alan Smith , president of Marks & Spencer North America and Far East , says that Brooks Brothers ' focus is to boost sales by broadening its merchandise assortment 
Alan Smith , president of Marks & Spencer North America and Far East , says that Brooks Brothers ' focus is to boost sales by broadening its merchandise assortment while keeping its `` traditional emphasis . '' 
The British parent is also streamlining : Brooks Brothers , which continues to make almost all of its merchandise , recently shut one of its two shirt plants in Paterson , N.J. , and has closed boys ' departments in all but 20 stores . 
More shirts and sweaters will be laid out on tables , instead of sitting behind glass cases 
Because the biggest growth in menswear is in casual sportswear , Brooks Brothers is chasing more of that business 
`` The perception out there is that we are very conservative 
`` The perception out there is that we are very conservative and we only sell one type of suit , '' Mr. Roberti says , referring to Brooks Brothers ' signature three-button `` sack suit , '' with a center-vented jacket and boxy fit . 
But it now offers more two-button versions and suits with a tapered fit . 
Ferro Corp. said it will buy back as many as one million common shares . 
Arthur Price abruptly quit as president and chief executive officer of MTM Entertainment Inc. , a Los Angeles production company that has fallen on hard times . 
James Gatward , TVS 's chief executive , said in a statement that he will `` assume overall responsibility '' for MTM 's operations 
Mr. Gatward declined to comment 
In the TVS statement , Mr. Price said `` leaving MTM was a very difficult decision 
The $ 320 million purchase of MTM represented an audacious international move for TVS , which then was about half the U.S. concern 's size . 
But TVS stunned industry analysts last month by disclosing that it expected MTM to post an operating loss for this year . 
Mr. Price co-founded MTM in 1969 with U.S. actress Mary Tyler Moore and Grant Tinker , her then-husband . 
Institut Merieux S.A. , which offered 942 million Canadian dollars -LRB- US$ 801.2 million -RRB- , or C$ 37 a share for Connaught , said it would extend its bid , due to expire last Thursday , to Nov. 6 . 
Merieux officials said last week that they are `` highly confident '' the offer will be approved 
Two rival bidders for Connaught BioSciences extended their offers to acquire the Toronto-based vaccine manufacturer Friday . 
General Motors Corp. 's GMC Truck division put a $ 750 cash incentive on its 1990 full-sized Jimmy and Suburban trucks . 
Judge Harold C. Abramson raised the possibility 
Judge Harold C. Abramson raised the possibility after talks to end a feud between two major creditors failed 
If the case is converted to Chapter 7 , what remains of the oil tycoon 's once-vast estate -- now believed to have a value of less than $ 125 million -- would be sold off quickly with most of the proceeds going to the Internal Revenue Service 
While admitting such a move would be `` devastating '' to most creditors , Judge Abramson told a courtroom filled with nearly two dozen attorneys that he was concerned about the toll mounting legal bills will take on Mr. Hunt 's shrinking estate and about the fact that , following voting by creditors , none of the reorganization plans appeared to be viable in their present form 
Under Chapter 11 of the Federal Bankruptcy Code , a company continues to operate under protection from creditors ' lawsuits 
Despite his reluctance to take the latter step , the judge indicated he would move quickly 
While claiming that penalties , legal fees and interest have driven the value of its claim to more than $ 250 million , Minpeco has agreed to settle for an allowed claim of as much as $ 65.7 million 
While claiming that penalties , legal fees and interest have driven the value of its claim to more than $ 250 million , Minpeco has agreed to settle for an allowed claim of as much as $ 65.7 million . 
Despite long private sessions in both New York and Dallas , the two sides ended the week `` 6,000 miles and many dollars apart , '' according to attorney Hugh Ray , who represents Manufacturers Hanover . 
A reorganization plan proposed jointly by the IRS and Manufacturers Hanover was stalled by a negative vote from Minpeco . The mineral concern 's own reorganization plan met a similar fate after opposition from the IRS and Manufacturers Hanover . 
Neither plan is dead , however 
Neither plan is dead , however , and the judge could force creditors to accept some version of them 
Neither plan is dead , however , and the judge could force creditors to accept some version of them after ruling on the Minpeco-Manufacturers Hanover dispute . 
The two sides have been far apart on how much Herbert Hunt will continue to owe the government 
Terms have n't been finalized 
If all the debt is converted to common , Automatic Data will issue about 3.6 million shares 
Automatic Data is redeeming the bonds 
Dow Jones & Co. extended its tender offer of $ 18 a share , or about $ 576 million , for the 33 % of Telerate Inc. that it does n't already own until 5 p.m. EST , Nov. 6 . 
The supplement contains various information that has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission 
The supplement contains various information that has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission since Dow Jones launched the offer on Sept. 26 
The supplement contains various information that has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission since Dow Jones launched the offer on Sept. 26 , but it does n't change the terms and conditions of the offer 
In Delaware Chancery Court litigation , Telerate has criticized Dow Jones for not disclosing that Telerate 's management expects the company 's revenue to increase by 20 % annually 
Telerate shares fell 50 cents on Friday to close at $ 20 each in New York Stock Exchange composite trading . 
Late last week , representatives of Dow Jones and Telerate began negotiations about the terms of the offer 
In addition to being broadcast on cable television 
Concord New Horizons Corp. , creators of a 1988 movie called Nam Angels , used the gang 's name and trademarks without authorization , the not-for-profit corporation says in a complaint filed in federal court . 
Besides being upset with the film 's use of the Hells Angels name and logos , the Angels are angry with their depiction in the movie 
Nam Angels shows Angels fighting with each other 
Nam Angels shows Angels fighting with each other and also depicts them as showing no remorse 
Douglas H. Miller , self-employed in the oil and gas securities business , was named chairman of this oil and gas exploration company , filling a vacancy . 
Lawrence M. Gressette Jr. , president , was elected to the additional posts of chairman and chief executive officer of this utility holding company , effective Feb. 1 , 1990 . 
When the smoke cleared , six people were dead -LRB- three from heart attacks -RRB- , and everyone wondered what in the world they were shooting at 
When the smoke cleared , six people were dead -LRB- three from heart attacks -RRB- 
Well , thousands of Californians on the scene insisted the ammo had been uselessly aimed at a large , hardy UFO 
One thing 's for sure : There have been a ton of them 
Jimmy Carter went further in a 1976 campaign promise : `` If I become president , I 'll make every piece of information this country has about UFO sightings available to the public , and the scientists 
I am convinced that UFOs exist 
Jimmy Carter went further in a 1976 campaign promise : `` If I become president , I 'll make every piece of information this country has about UFO sightings available to the public , and the scientists . I am convinced that UFOs exist because I have seen one ... . '' 
It still does n't look like governments are coughing up everything they know . 
Still , despite their efforts to convince the world that we are indeed alone , the visitors do seem to keep coming 
Still , despite their efforts to convince the world that we are indeed alone , the visitors do seem to keep coming and , like the recent sightings , there 's often a detail or two that suggests they may actually be a little on the dumb side . 
For instance , witnesses in Voronezh say the pinheaded behemoths and their robot friend , after strolling around the city park , left behind some rocks 
In a 1961 incident , a Soviet mail plane disappeared off the radar screen 
Speculation as to the nature of aliens will no doubt continue 
The apparent crash became top secret 
Trustcorp Inc. will become Society Bank & Trust 
When the economy stumbled in the mid-1970s , Akzo NV fell out of bed 
Now , as a new downturn in the chemical industry looms , Akzo says it is in far better shape to cope 
The fibers business , whose products go into textiles , carpeting and myriad industrial uses , now accounts for only 20 % of Akzo 's sales . 
Mr. Bergsma said prices for U.S. pharmaceutical companies remain too high , making it unlikely that Akzo will pursue any major acquisitions in that area . 
But he said Akzo is considering `` alliances '' with American drug companies 
A bigger test will come next year 
At James Capel & Co. in London , analyst Jackie Ashurst notes that Akzo is less exposed than many of its rivals to the most volatile chemical products . 
At James Capel & Co. in London , analyst Jackie Ashurst notes that Akzo is less exposed than many of its rivals to the most volatile chemical products . 
Thus , while Akzo profited less than many rivals from the boom of recent years in petrochemicals and plastics , it has less to fear from the current slump 
At James Capel & Co. in London , analyst Jackie Ashurst notes that Akzo is less exposed than many of its rivals to the most volatile chemical products . 
Although bulk-chemical prices have begun falling in the U.S. , they are generally stable in Europe 
A decline may come in the first half of 1990 
In a less glamorous field , Akzo is the world 's biggest producer of industrial salt , used as a raw material for the chemical industry as well as for such tasks as melting ice . 
In the fibers division , profit remains weak , largely because of persistent overcapacity . 
Although the polyester and rayon markets remain mostly bleak , Akzo has high hopes for some emerging fiber businesses , such carbon fibers and aramid , extremely strong fibers used to reinforce tires and metals and to make such products as bullet-proof vests 
Sales growth of 10 % a year seems possible 
Although the polyester and rayon markets remain mostly bleak , Akzo has high hopes for some emerging fiber businesses , such carbon fibers and aramid , extremely strong fibers used to reinforce tires and metals and to make such products as bullet-proof vests . 
Akzo also has spent heavily on acquisitions in paints , auto finishes and industrial coatings . 
Mr. Bergsma said Akzo is likely to see strong profit growth from coatings 
Akzo is the leading seller of birth-control pills in Europe but is still seeking regulatory approvals to enter that market in the U.S. and Japan . 
He is a politician with the courage of true conviction , as in summarily sacking exchange controls 
We 're sorry to see Nigel Lawson 's departure from the British government . 
We 're sorry to see Nigel Lawson 's departure from the British government . 
But in the end his resignation as Chancellor of the Exchequer may be a good thing 
We 're sorry to see Nigel Lawson 's departure from the British government . 
There are the supply-side globalists , who seek to spread the advantages of a common currency through fixed exchange rates . 
He not only slashed marginal tax rates , initially sparking fresh growth in Britain 
While no doubt agreeing with Mr. Lawson on everything else , Sir Alan is a dyed-in-the-wool monetarist , inclined to defend floating rates to the death 
By accounting definitions , this had to produce a sudden trade deficit . 
Faced with a similar situation , Paul Volcker let the dollar soar 
Faced with a similar situation , Paul Volcker let the dollar soar 
Faced with a similar situation , Paul Volcker let the dollar soar , -LRB- though monetary aggregates also grew so rapidly monetarists issued egg-on-the-face warnings of inflation -RRB- . 
Mr. Lawson , though not allowed to join the EMS , chose to `` shadow '' the deutsche mark 
He reaped inflation along with rapid growth , no doubt validating Sir Alan 's predictions in the Prime Minister 's mind . 
But more recently , the pound has been falling with high inflation 
But more recently , the pound has been falling with high inflation , which has also seemed almost impervious to the high interest rates Mr. Lawson deployed to stop it . 
We had been soliciting opinions on it 
To begin with , we should note that in contrast to the U.S. deficit , Britain has been running largish budget surpluses . 
We should also add Mr. Lawson 's own explanation , as we understand it . 
Perhaps the fiscal shock of tax cuts is after all best absorbed by floating rates 
We recall that Mr. Roberts not only chides the Chancellor for being too easy because of a desire to constrain sterling 
We recall that Mr. Roberts not only chides the Chancellor for being too easy because of a desire to constrain sterling , but also led the chorus saying that Mr. Volcker was too tight 
The globalists tend to think Mr. Lawson ran onto technical reefs . 
In fixing rates the choice of initial parities is crucial , for example 
Perhaps the shock would have been less 
Those who can shake Keynesian ghosts out of their heads might recognize that the retirement of gilts for cash is equivalent to an expansionary open-market operation 
Alan Reynolds of Polyconomics adds his suspicion that the unrecognized inflationary culprit is the budget surplus . 
Mr. Reynolds also notes that since British banks have no reserve requirements , high interest rates are less likely to curb inflation than to cause recession 
We would add that in political terms , Mrs. Thatcher 's problem was failing to decide between the Chancellor and her adviser . 
In the end , neither policy was followed 
In the end , neither policy was followed , and instead of learning anything we are left with a mystery . 
All the more so 
In particular , `` shadowing '' a currency is anything but fixing ; it is an open announcement that the exchange rate target has no credibility . All the more so when strong voices are heard opposing the policy . Better to have a true monetarist policy , just for the experience . 
So Mr. Lawson had to resign . 
In the end his move was sparked by remarks in excerpts from Sir Alan 's autobiography in The American Economist , a 10,000-circulation academic journal . 
Ogilvy under the fastidious Mr. Roman gained a reputation as occasionally being high-handed in its treatment of clients , of preaching what strategy a client should -- indeed , must -- follow . 
And some of its top client-service executives , including Mr. Phillips , were promoted to the point they were saddled with administrative duties , with little time to see clients . 
But Mr. Phillips recently freed himself up to spend more time with clients by delegating much of his administrative work to a deputy . 
First and foremost , Mr. Phillips said he hopes to improve client service . 
Under his watch , office politicking was often rampant in the agency 's New York operation 
Under his watch , office politicking was often rampant in the agency 's New York operation and the office there has had a dismal new-business record for more than a year . 
And while last week the agency hired a top Chiat\/Day\/Mojo executive , Bill Hamilton , to try to bolster its work , `` Graham has to get the revenue of that New York office moving 
The one thing Mr. Phillips clearly does have going for him is continuity 
As Mr. Dougherty says , `` The last thing they need is enormous disruption at the top 
Mr. Phillips and Mr. Roman are indeed quite similar in substance 
While Mr. Roman is a workaholic detailsman , Mr. Phillips would rather delegate 
While Mr. Roman is a workaholic detailsman , Mr. Phillips would rather delegate , leaving him time for his interests outside the office . 
Mr. Roman , by contrast , seems rarely to cut loose at all 
Mr. Phillips said the company 's expected margin improvement will be all but inevitable , given that the company 's profitability was dragged down this year by an expensive move to luxurious , oversized new New York headquarters . 
But margins will be helped , too , by some other cost-saving steps . 
Mr. Klein will work with Mr. Kroll on some of the agency 's joint venture activities and acquisitions 
Although management led a leveraged buy-out of R.H. Macy in July 1986 , the company still makes financial filings because of its publicly traded debt 
While our competitors are concerned with their financial viability and possible ownership changes , we will be concentrating on buying and selling merchandise our customers need and want 
In a letter to investors , Chairman Edward S. Finkelstein wrote that he expects the company to `` benefit from some of the disruption faced by our competitors . 
`` The volume and profit impact on our fiscal first quarter will not be positive 
Roughly $ 2 billion of that debt has already been repaid from previous asset sales 
Roughly $ 2 billion of that debt has already been repaid from previous asset sales , and RJR expects to use another $ 2 billion from the pending , two-part sale of most of its Del Monte unit . 
That sale , however , could still fall through 
That sale , however , could still fall through if financing problems develop . 
Since KKR bought RJR in February for $ 25 billion of debt , it has agreed to sell nearly $ 5 billion of RJR assets 
Baby Ruth and Butterfinger are both among the top-selling 15 chocolate bars in the 
Last year catastrophe losses totaled $ 5 million 
The insurer has started processing claims from the Northern California earthquake nearly two weeks ago . 
But because these claims are more difficult to evaluate and have been coming in more slowly , the company has no estimate of the impact of the earthquake on fourth-quarter results 
Profit for its commercial insurance division fell 30 % to $ 59 million , reflecting higher catastrophe losses and the price war in the property\/casualty market for nearly three years . 
Here was the state security appartus poised to pounce on any words or acts of provocation , let alone revolution . 
`` We stand for peace today 
`` We stand for peace today and we will stand for peace tomorrow , '' said Walter Sisulu , the ANC 's former secretary general who , along with five of his colleagues , served 26 years in prison 
The government of President F.W. de Klerk is using this situation to improve its international image and head off further economic sanctions . 
Meanwhile , the many organizations inside the country that back the ANC are taking the opportunity to regain their strength and mobilize their supporters 
In a message read out at the rally , exiled ANC President Oliver Tambo , who ca n't legally be quoted in South Africa , said the country was at a crossroads 
In a message read out at the rally , exiled ANC President Oliver Tambo , who ca n't legally be quoted in South Africa , said the country was at a crossroads and that Mr. de Klerk `` may yet earn a place among the peacemakers of our country 
The government and the ANC , the bitterest of enemies , are engaged in an elaborate mating dance designed to entice each other to the negotiating table . 
Still , this does n't mean that either the government or the ANC is changing stripes 
The government may ease repression in some areas 
The government may ease repression in some areas , but it still keeps a tight grip in others . 
For instance , it releases Mr. Sisulu without conditions 
Because the ANC remains banned , both the government , which approved the rally , and the organizers , who orchestrated it , denied it was an ANC rally 
They both called it a `` welcome home '' gathering . 
As a police helicopter circled overhead , Mr. Sisulu repeated the ANC 's demands on the government to create a climate for negotiations 
As a police helicopter circled overhead , Mr. Sisulu repeated the ANC 's demands on the government to create a climate for negotiations : Release all political prisoners unconditionally ; lift all bans and restrictions on individuals and organizations ; remove all troops from the black townships ; end the state of emergency 
If these conditions are met , he said , the ANC would be prepared to discuss suspending its guerrilla activities 
When Westinghouse Electric Corp. shuttered its massive steam turbine plant in Lester , Pa. , three years ago , it seemed like the company had pulled the plug on its century-old power generation business 
When Westinghouse Electric Corp. shuttered its massive steam turbine plant in Lester , Pa. , three years ago , it seemed like the company had pulled the plug on its century-old power generation business . 
But now Westinghouse is enjoying a resurgence in demand for both steam and combustion turbines and may even join the growing legion of independent electric producers . 
Most are from independent producers instead of regulated utilities 
But now Westinghouse is enjoying a resurgence in demand for both steam and combustion turbines and may even join the growing legion of independent electric producers . 
In the past , the company usually took token equity positions in power plants it supplied as a `` kicker '' to close deals . 
`` We have n't decided on a strategy yet 
Under the agreement , Westinghouse will be able to purchase smaller combustion turbines from its Japanese partner , and package and sell them with its own generators and other equipment . 
Westinghouse also jointly will bid on projects with Misubishi , giving it an edge in developing Asian markets . Under the agreement , Westinghouse will be able to purchase smaller combustion turbines from its Japanese partner , and package and sell them with its own generators and other equipment . 
`` Even though we 'll still compete against Mitsubishi , we can also work jointly on some projects , and we 'll gain a lot of sourcing flexibility 
`` Even though we 'll still compete against Mitsubishi 
`` Even though we 'll still compete against Mitsubishi , we can also work jointly on some projects 
Westinghouse carefully crafted the agreement 
It is expected that the current surge in demand for new power will be filled primarily by independent producers which , unlike utilities , are n't regulated 
Westinghouse expects about half of its new orders for turbines to come from independent producers for at least the next six years . 
Still , Westinghouse acknowledges that demand from independent producers could evaporate 
Still , Westinghouse acknowledges that demand from independent producers could evaporate if prices for fuel such as natural gas or oil rise sharply 
Still , Westinghouse acknowledges that demand from independent producers could evaporate 
Even if that scenario occurs , Westinghouse figures it is prepared 
The company already is gearing up for a renaissance of nuclear power 
`` Once we see an order , we expect it 'll be on line by 2000 
The boys with the white elephants on their sleeves might not have made the earth move much 
That 's geologically correct 
That came in the seventh inning of Game Four when , trailing 8-2 , they scored four times and brought their big heat -- Will Clark and Kevin Mitchell -- to the plate with one out and a runner on . 
But Clark flied out to short right field 
But Clark flied out to short right field and Mitchell 's drive to left was caught on the warning track by Rickey Henderson 
`` I told him to make Mitchell reach for everything 
If it had been , he mighta hit it out 
They led for nary an inning in the four games , and managed to stir their fans only once . That came in the seventh inning of Game Four when , trailing 8-2 , they scored four times and brought their big heat -- Will Clark and Kevin Mitchell -- to the plate with one out and a runner on . 
But if the A 's had n't won in four , they would have prevailed in five , or six , or seven 
The best baseball teams win six of 10 games 
Baseball ai n't football , where the good teams beat up on the bad ones . 
They led the Major Leagues in regular-season wins with 99 and flattened the Toronto Blue Jays four games to one for the American League pennant 
The pithiest testimony to their domination of the just-concluded tournament came from Giants ' manager Roger Craig 
Their 85 total bases broke a record for a four-game set 
The sole A not to homer was cleanup hitter Mark McGwire , their regular-season leader with 33 
The sole A not to homer was cleanup hitter Mark McGwire , their regular-season leader with 33 , and he contributed five hits plus a diving fielding play on a ground ball in Game Three that stopped a Giant rally 
The sole A not to homer was cleanup hitter Mark McGwire , their regular-season leader with 33 , and he contributed five hits plus a diving fielding play on a ground ball in Game Three that stopped a Giant rally while the issue still was in doubt . 
Afterward , as the A 's toasted their victory with beer -LRB- they dispensed with traditional champagne showers in deference to the quake victims -RRB- , Stewart said he thought his championship-team ring would outshine his individual trophy 
`` Give me four or five more Series with these guys 
Afterward , as the A 's toasted their victory with beer -LRB- they dispensed with traditional champagne showers in deference to the quake victims -RRB- , Stewart said he thought his championship-team ring would outshine his individual trophy . 
He might have added an interesting historical fact : The last Series sweep , by the Cincinnati Reds , came in 1976 
It was widely predicted that free agency would allow the glamorous , `` big market '' teams to monopolize the best talent 
The rationale for responding to your customers ' needs faster than the competition can is clear : Your company will benefit in terms of market share , customer satisfaction and profitability . 
In fact , managers today are probably more aware of speed as a competitive variable than ever before . 
`` Most of us grew up believing in the axioms ` Haste makes waste 
`` Most of us grew up believing in the axioms ` Haste makes waste ' and ` Do n't cut corners , ' ideas that seem to run counter to the concept of managing speed , '' says Dean Cassell , vice president for product integrity at Grumman Corp . 
The packages must be sorted quickly and distributed to smaller vans for delivery 
No customer is present at the morning package sort 
No customer is present at the morning package sort 
`` We suspected there was downtime built into our process . 
But we did n't know just where it was 
`` The vans leave at least 15 minutes earlier , on average , than they used to . 
`` First , they produced a flowchart detailing the process by which an air-separation plant actually gets built . 
The Tonawanda team determined that holdups for inspections were the main problem and identified which kinds of delays involved critical inspections and which were less critical or could be handled by workers already on the line . 
`` First , we have better quality assurance than ever 
`` We needed contributions from all these departments to generate the proposal , '' says Carl Anton , configuration-data manager for Grumman 's A-6 combat aircraft program . 
`` We cleared up questions and inconsistencies very quickly 
They effectively lead team efforts to reduce cycle time . 
Home taping of pre-recorded music cuts into record industry revenues 
A recent agreement between the recording industry and electronics manufacturers requires that any digital audio tape , or DAT , recorder sold in the U.S. have a built-in device that restricts its ability to make second copies from DAT tape copies of digital compact disks . 
Under current copyright laws , it is considered `` fair use '' to reproduce copyrighted material for one 's personal use or for use by one 's family or friends 
The study says that the `` ambiguous legal status '' of home copying makes it `` appropriate to examine the effects on consumers , as well as on industry . '' 
Werner K. Rey believes fortunes are made by being friendly . 
Shareholders must approve the merger at general meetings of the two companies in late November . 
But approval is almost certain 
`` I like to succeed 
He was simply the first in this country to realize that treasures were just lying around waiting to be picked up . 
Switzerland 's most famous raider says he is n't one . 
Investing four million Swiss francs earned from his financial transactions and two million Swiss francs from his parents and his wife , Mr. Rey acquired 20 % of Bally 's shares . 
Eventually , Mr. Rey was forced to sell his Bally shares to the weapons maker Oerlikon-Buehrle Holding AG 
`` I bought from willing shareholders . '' 
Nevertheless , Mr. Rey has been very careful since then to make sure his moves are welcome . 
With the nonferrous metals business undermined in Switzerland by tough foreign competition and high domestic costs , this looked like a dull undertaking . 
Once again the company 's future looked less than rosy . 
In 1987 , Mr. Rey bested leading publishing houses to take over Switzerland 's Jean Frey AG , a major producer of magazines and newspapers . A major boost to Mr. Rey 's respectability among the Swiss came in 1986 when he sold 60 % of his Phibro Bank to the conservative Swiss cantonal banks . 
In 1979 , his career as an industrialist began with the acquisition of the Swiss metals works Selve , based in Thun . With the nonferrous metals business undermined in Switzerland by tough foreign competition and high domestic costs , this looked like a dull undertaking . But Mr. Rey brought about a merger in the next few years between the country 's major producers ; the increased efficiency has perked up the industry . Three years later , machinery producer Ateliers de Constructions Mecaniques de Vevey S.A. was to become part of the Rey empire . Once again the company 's future looked less than rosy . But after restructuring under new management , the profits began rolling in . A major boost to Mr. Rey 's respectability among the Swiss came in 1986 when he sold 60 % of his Phibro Bank to the conservative Swiss cantonal banks . They renamed it Swiss Cantobank and are using it to expand abroad . In 1987 , Mr. Rey bested leading publishing houses to take over Switzerland 's Jean Frey AG , a major producer of magazines and newspapers . And with the recent acquisition of 30 % of Winterthur-based machinery manufacturer Gebrueder Sulzer AG , Mr. Rey has enjoyed the status of white knight . Sulzer preferred him to financier Tito Tettamanti , whose secretive raid on the company 's stock had led to a bitter battle . 
Meanwhile , as such strategic investments have mounted , the merchant-banking arm of Mr. Rey 's Omni Holding has been busily buying and selling dozens of companies , often after a financial or corporate restructuring 
The internal transaction within the Rey empire puzzled Harpener 's small shareholders 
Ultimate expects the 3 1\/2-year agreement to generate $ 100 million in sales 
In the second step of a reorganization that began earlier this year , Boeing Co. said it will create a Defense and Space Group to consolidate several divisions . 
Boeing has said repeatedly it wo n't expand its offer 
Boeing has said repeatedly it wo n't expand its offer and the machinists have responded that the offer is n't good enough . 
While Boeing 's commercial business is booming , its military business is feeling the effects of a declining defense budget after a strong buildup during the Reagan presidency 
In the second step of a reorganization that began earlier this year , Boeing Co. said it will create a Defense and Space Group to consolidate several divisions . 
In May , the company consolidated its Aerospace and Electronics groups ; the new Defense and Space Group will contain the Aerospace and Electronics division and Advanced Systems , both based in the Seattle area ; Boeing Helicopters in Philadelphia ; Boeing Military Airplanes in Wichita , Kan. , and ArgoSystems in Sunnyvale , Calif . 
A two-day meeting of representatives of Cocom , the 17-nation group that oversees exports of sensitive goods to communist countries , did n't take any substantive decisions on trimming the list of items under controls . 
The U.S. had been under pressure from several Cocom members , especially France , West Germany and Italy , to ease restrictions on some types of machine tools , which those countries argued were now widely available to East Bloc countries from non-Cocom members . 
Some countries also have been pressing for special treatment for Hungary and Poland as they move toward more democratic rule , just as special treatment had been agreed on for China 
Some countries also have been pressing for special treatment for Hungary and Poland as they move toward more democratic rule , just as special treatment had been agreed on for China . 
They added that `` all of us -LRB- Cocom members -RRB- look at the changes in Hungary and Poland in a positive way 
They added that `` all of us -LRB- Cocom members -RRB- look at the changes in Hungary and Poland in a positive way , but a question of this scope deserves further discussion and study . '' 
The officials said this meeting `` put in motion '' procedural steps that would speed up both of these functions 
`` The quarter was terrible 
On top of that , the Blue Bell , Pa. , concern took a $ 230 million charge related to the layoffs of 8,000 employees . 
The company also took a write-off of $ 150 million to cover losses on some fixed-price defense contracts 
The company also took a write-off of $ 150 million to cover losses on some fixed-price defense contracts , as some new managers took a hard look at the prospects for that slow-growing business . On top of that , the Blue Bell , Pa. , concern took a $ 230 million charge related to the layoffs of 8,000 employees . 
In addition , Unisys set up an unspecified reserve -- apparently $ 60 million to $ 70 million -- to cover the minimum amount it will have to pay the government because of its involvement in the defense-procurement scandal . 
Unisys also noted that it paid $ 78.8 million in taxes during the quarter 
Unisys , whose revenue inched up 3.7 % in the quarter to $ 2.35 billion from $ 2.27 billion in the year-earlier quarter , had an operating loss of about $ 30 million . On top of that , the Blue Bell , Pa. , concern took a $ 230 million charge related to the layoffs of 8,000 employees . The company also took a write-off of $ 150 million to cover losses on some fixed-price defense contracts , as some new managers took a hard look at the prospects for that slow-growing business . In addition , Unisys set up an unspecified reserve -- apparently $ 60 million to $ 70 million -- to cover the minimum amount it will have to pay the government because of its involvement in the defense-procurement scandal . Unisys also noted that it paid $ 78.8 million in taxes during the quarter , even though tax payments normally would be minimal in a quarter that produced such a big loss . 
In addition , Unisys said it reduced computer inventories a further $ 100 million during the quarter , leaving it within $ 100 million of its goal of a reduction of $ 500 million by the end of the year . 
Still , Unisys said its European business was weak during the quarter , a worrisome sign given that the company has relied on solid results overseas to overcome weakness in the U.S. over the past several quarters . 
That would be a huge problem 
That would be a huge problem if it were to continue 
Still , Unisys said its European business was weak during the quarter , a worrisome sign given that the company has relied on solid results overseas to overcome weakness in the U.S. over the past several quarters . The company also reported slower growth in another important business : systems that use the Unix operating system . 
He said the strength of the world-wide economy is suspect , and does n't see much revenue growth in the cards . 
`` The information-systems industry is still going to be a high-growth business 
`` The information-systems industry is still going to be a high-growth business , and we 're confident that we have tremendous assets as a company . 
Some had predicted earnings of more than $ 4 a share for this year , up from last year 's fully diluted $ 3.27 a share on earnings of $ 680.6 million . 
But the company said Friday that it had losses of $ 673.3 million through the first nine months , compared with earnings a year earlier of $ 382.2 million , or $ 2.22 a share fully diluted 
But the company said Friday that it had losses of $ 673.3 million through the first nine months , compared with earnings a year earlier of $ 382.2 million , or $ 2.22 a share fully diluted , as revenue inched up 1.4 % to $ 7.13 billion from $ 7.03 billion . 
But the company said Friday that it had losses of $ 673.3 million through the first nine months , compared with earnings a year earlier of $ 382.2 million , or $ 2.22 a share fully diluted , as revenue inched up 1.4 % to $ 7.13 billion from $ 7.03 billion . And Unisys is expected to do little better than break even in the fourth quarter . 
`` The break-even point for next year is much lower 
If a TV weatherman gets butterflies facing the camera again after a questionable forecast , Donald H. Straszheim surely understands 
The chief economist of Merrill Lynch & Co. finds himself in such a position 
Mr. Straszheim expects he will take some heat 
Since the last time he traveled this way several months ago , he has recanted a series of bold forecasts of a recession . 
The forecasts were widely disseminated 
It said long-term interest rates , then above 9 % , could drop to 7 % by the end of 1989 
The forecasts were widely disseminated , and , in a splashy ad campaign launched in the summer of 1988 , Merrill Lynch urged investors to buy bonds . 
In February 1988 , for example , Merrill Lynch 's weekly commentary announced that `` the economy is likely to fall into recession in early 1989 . '' 
He softened the talk about a recession . 
Now , in fact , he is predicting economic growth of 2.9 % this year and 2.1 % next year , a more optimistic outlook than the consensus of some four dozen top forecasters surveyed by Blue Chip Economic Indicators newsletter . 
While such changes might sound minor , they are n't 
Now a rocky stock market and weak corporate profits may further threaten the economy . 
Pestered by bosses , brokers , clients and media people and pushed by their own egos , Wall Street economists are forecasting about everything from broad economic trends to the dinkiest monthly indicator . 
Some smaller clients do n't seem to notice his switch . 
A good half-hour into breakfast at the Palmer House , Mr. O'Brien looks up from his plate 
He does n't fully succeed 
Dennis O'Brien , the treasurer of Commonwealth Edison Co. in Chicago , adopts a polite approach , waiting for an opportunity to ask about the forecast . 
Alfred Harrison , the manager , shoves Mr. Straszheim 's handout back at him : `` Do we want to go through this ? 
Or can we ask you why you changed your forecast 
Swiveling in his chair , Mr. Straszheim replies that the new outlook , though still weak , does n't justify calling a recession right now . `` 
`` We 're not running that ad campaign any more , '' Mr. Straszheim snaps in a rare show of irritation . He adds , `` I think it was a fairly decent call . '' 
His new forecast calls for `` a soft landing . '' 
You make a forecast 
You make a forecast 
You make a forecast , and then you become its prisoner . '' 
It is indeed hard to back away from a widely publicized forecast 
In the filing , Crane said that in the past it considered seeking control of Milton Roy , of St. Petersburg , Fla. , through a merger or tender offer 
In New York Stock Exchange composite trading Friday , Milton Roy shares leaped $ 2 , to $ 18.375 each 
Thermo Electron acquired some 6 % of Milton Roy 's common stock 
The Chancellor of the Exchequer , Nigel Lawson , resigned 
As there is an effort to `` anchor the dollar '' either to gold or other currencies , the dispute is worth examining 
Until his resignation , Mr. Lawson had been conducting British monetary policy 
When Mrs. Thatcher cut the top tax rate to 40 % , Mr. Lawson flooded the country with money to prevent the pound from rising against the mark 
When Mrs. Thatcher cut the top tax rate to 40 % , Mr. Lawson flooded the country with money to prevent the pound from rising against the mark . 
If the pound had been tied to the mark , the British would have been unable to cut their exorbitant tax rates 
When a country cuts tax rates , it makes itself more attractive to investors and drives up the value of its currency 
This misguided policy could not prevent a British trade deficit . 
The British balance-of-payments statistics show that after the top tax rate was cut to 40 % , the flow abroad of British capital slowed , to 50 billion pounds -LRB- $ 79 billion at the current rate -RRB- in 1988 from 93 billion pounds in 1986 
The most important governments have ignored the role of low tax rates in attracting real capital investment 
First comes monetary expansion to drive down the currency 's value that was pushed up by tax-rate reduction . 
Then , when the currency falls , interest rates are raised to attract financial flows in order to stabilize the exchange rate 
This policy is totally mindless 
Unless the Soviet Union collapses , German reunification is likely to require Germany 's neutralization 
The implications for Britain , France and the rest of Europe of having their currencies tied to the economic policy of a neutral country need considering 
The figures came 
The figures came a day after the government released a report showing that consumer spending propelled U.S. economic expansion in the third quarter 
The figures came a day after the government released a report showing that consumer spending propelled U.S. economic expansion in the third quarter while -- on an inflation-adjusted basis -- business investment slowed , government spending declined 
The figures came a day after the government released a report showing that consumer spending propelled U.S. economic expansion in the third quarter while -- on an inflation-adjusted basis -- business investment slowed , government spending declined , and exports were flat . 
In August , personal income rose 0.3 % 
Car sales slackened in September 
RA acquired the Howick coal mine Oct. 20 when it bought British Petroleum Co. 's Australian coal interests for $ 275 million . 
Control Data Corp. , which just months ago was hemorrhaging financially , thinks it will be healthy enough soon to consider repurchasing public debt . 
`` I 'm not saying everything is hunky-dory 
Now , following asset sales that shrank revenue by more than one-third this year alone , Control Data is flush with cash . 
Mr. Perlman , who is also acting chief financial officer and the odds-on favorite to become the next chief executive , said the company is achieving `` modest positive cash flow from operations 
While a few assets are still being shopped -- including the sports and entertainment ticketing portion of the company 's Ticketron unit -- Mr. Price said future restructuring would be a question of strategy 
Ticketron 's automated wagering business , which operates lotteries in a half dozen states , is not for sale , the company said . 
Control Data 's semiconductor business , VTC Inc. , continues to lose money 
Control Data 's semiconductor business , VTC Inc. , continues to lose money , the executives acknowledged , but they said they consider some of the technology vital to national defense 
He disclosed that before Control Data scrapped its ETA Systems Inc. supercomputer business this past spring , those costs were running at nearly 35 % of group revenue 
Reviewing the company 's scrape with disaster , Mr. Price conceded it had tried to do too much on its own . `` Absolutely , '' he said . 
But while its stock is selling at about half Control Data 's estimated breakup value , neither Messrs. Perlman nor Price said he spends much time considering the possibility of a hostile takeover 
Having resided in the great state of California for the past seven years , I find it hard to ignore our environmental problems 
Having resided in the great state of California for the past seven years , I find it hard to ignore our environmental problems 
Having resided in the great state of California for the past seven years , I find it hard to ignore our environmental problems 
While there are no easy low-cost solutions , simply ignoring our problems will result in their severity increasing and spreading throughout the state , the nation and the world 
I realize you were just looking for something snotty to say about California and its environmental movement 
Wright 's organic architecture demonstrated a keen sensitivity to the environment decades 
Wright 's organic architecture demonstrated a keen sensitivity to the environment decades before it became fashionable among `` la-la activists . '' 
Perhaps Mr. Reagan , who claimed that air pollution is caused by trees , is the man you should be quoting to back up your position that economics is more important than the Earth . 
Would-be naysayers should have the burden of proving reasonable necessity 
Revenue last year increased by more than 11 % over 1988 
Systemwide , IATA airlines carried 632 million passengers last year , 2 % more than in 1987 . 
But passenger-kilometers , the distance flown 
The newspaper quoted KGB chairman Vladimir A. Kryuchkov as saying the definition of anti-Soviet crimes had narrowed , the laws had changed 
A poll of South Koreans showed overwhelming opposition to efforts to curb dog-meat consumption 
If this battle were a movie , the producers would be fighting over two scripts with nothing but an opening scene in common 
In the affidavits , Mr. Peters says he was `` shocked 
Warner denies Mr. Ross ever said any such thing 
The battery of legal documents filed in the past week in connection with the suit provide a peek into the inner workings of this Hollywood dogfight . 
The battery of legal documents filed in the past week in connection with the suit provide a peek into the inner workings of this Hollywood dogfight . 
Warner says that what it really wants is for the producers to fulfill their contractual obligations 
Warner , which is in the process of merging with Time Warner Inc. , says it is willing to settle the matter out of court . 
Sony , for its part , could decide that the cost of a Warner settlement or court fight is too high 
Sony , for its part , could decide that the cost of a Warner settlement or court fight is too high , choosing instead to find someone else to run Columbia 
In that case , Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters might not suffer financially 
At the center of any court fight will be the differing interpretations of the written contract between Warner and the two producers 
Sony and the Guber-Peters team are hanging much of their case on Warner 's willingness last year to release the producers from another contract and on an oral agreement they say allowed them to terminate the current written contract 
Mr. Peters says in his affidavit that the movie 's staff was told last week that Warner was `` taking over '' the picture 
Over his objections , Mr. Peters says , the film 's release date was moved up `` by many months '' to December 
If he calls you up , just tell him everything is fine 
Mr. de la Bouillaire says Warner Brothers production president Mark Canton called him Oct. 19 and said Mr. Peters is `` off the picture . 
If someone asks , just lie and tell them it will be done 
If someone asks , just lie 
Mr. Guber , in his affidavit , says that when he advised Warner President Terry Semel of the Sony offer at lunch on Sept. 25 , Mr. Semel `` hugged and congratulated me , and expressed joy that we had finally realized our long-term ambition of running and having an equity position in a major entertainment company 
He says he told Mr. Guber he could n't sign any documents 
He says he told Mr. Guber he could n't sign any documents and that `` the deal , although apparently a good one for him and Mr. Peters , would have a very negative impact on Warner 
He said he would contact Mr. Ross and Warner Brothers Chairman Robert Daly 
Mr. Guber says that Mr. Semel did convey that information 
Mr. Guber says that Mr. Semel did convey that information and that Mr. Semel said Mr. Ross was `` crazy because of the Time deal , '' meaning , Mr. Guber says , that Mr. Ross `` did not want to communicate to his new merger partner , Time Inc. , that Warner 's agreements provided for our departure under these circumstances . '' 
Mr. Guber also says in his affidavit that Mr. Daly `` told us that even if Sony did not want us , Warner 's relationship with us already was irreparably damaged , that there was no way ` to put the egg together , ' and that it would sue Sony for tons of money 
Mr. Guber also says in his affidavit that Mr. Daly `` told us that even if Sony did not want us , Warner 's relationship with us already was irreparably damaged , that there was no way ` to put the egg together 
Mr. Guber also says in his affidavit that Mr. Daly `` told us that even if Sony did not want us , Warner 's relationship with us already was irreparably damaged , that there was no way ` to put the egg together , ' and that it would sue Sony for tons of money . '' 
Moreover , Mr. Guber claims , Mr. Semel told him that Mr. Ross probably would n't object 
Moreover , Mr. Guber claims , Mr. Semel told him that Mr. Ross probably would n't object `` if it were anybody other than Sony . 
According to this theory , Warner executives , hoping to strengthen their relationships with the producers , encouraged Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters in their ambitions to build a major entertainment company . 
`` They are like a mini-studio ; they have 50 projects in development for Warner , '' he says . 
But Mr. Guber indicates in his affidavit that not all of the projects will be used . 
For example , he says that since 1985 , he and Mr. Peters have developed over 85 movie projects 
The media company said it purchased Cable USA Inc. , a privately held cable television system in Carroll County , Ga. , a suburb of Atlanta . 
`` I suppose you could say the good news is that the deficits are not heading up 
`` I suppose you could say the good news is that the deficits are not heading up , '' he said , `` but you ca n't be satisfied with deficits at this level 
The 1989 deficit would have been nearly $ 10 billion larger had the government been able to spend as much as Congress intended on cleaning up the thrift industry 
Because the Resolution Trust Corp . could n't spend the money fast enough , the savings-and-loan outlays were pushed into fiscal 1990 
The 1989 deficit would have been nearly $ 10 billion larger had the government been able to spend as much as Congress intended on cleaning up the thrift industry before the year ended on Sept. 30 . Because the Resolution Trust Corp . could n't spend the money fast enough , the savings-and-loan outlays were pushed into fiscal 1990 . 
The Treasury marked up its forecast by $ 17 million in July 
The increase reflects spending on the S&L rescue as well as payroll and Social Security checks normally issued in October that were issued in September this year 
CMS management said Thursday that they planned to recommend paying a modest dividend 
The company suffered a loss of $ 270 million in 1985 
Polly Peck International Inc. 's agreement to acquire 51 % of Sansui Electric Co. proves that foreign companies can acquire Japanese companies 
`` The myths that Japan is not open to concerns from outside has , I think , been demolished at a stroke , '' Mr. Nadir said . 
It expects to post a loss of 6.4 billion yen for the year ending tomorrow 
If you find sound , healthy companies in Japan , they are not for sale 
Statistics on acquisitions by foreigners vary in detail 
Statistics on acquisitions by foreigners vary in detail , because unlike Sansui , which is listed on the Tokyo and Osaka stock exchanges , most of the Japanese companies acquired by foreigners are privately held . 
But by all accounts foreign companies have bought only a relative handful of Japanese companies this year 
But by all accounts foreign companies have bought only a relative handful of Japanese companies this year , while Japanese companies have acquired hundreds of foreign companies . 
If the strong yen and the high stock prices of Japanese companies were n't deterrents enough , webs of cross-shareholdings between friendly Japanese companies and fiercely independent Japanese corporate attitudes repel most would-be acquirers 
Usually when a Japanese company is ready to sell , it has few alternatives remaining 
Usually when a Japanese company is ready to sell , it has few alternatives remaining 
Sansui was once one of Japan 's premier makers of expensive , high-quality stereo gear for audiophiles . 
As the yen soared in recent years , Sansui 's deepening financial problems became a vicious circle 
While competitors moved production offshore in response to the sagging competitiveness of Japanese factories , Sansui lacked the money to build new plants in Southeast Asia 
`` Our company has not been able to cope very effectively with '' changes in the marketplace , said Ryosuke Ito , Sansui 's president . 
`` Attitudes -LCB- toward being acquired -RCB- are still negative 
Whether Polly Peck 's acquisition makes sense remains to be seen 
`` Whatever capital it -LRB- Sansui -RRB- needs 
He said Polly Peck will greatly expand Sansui 's product line , using Sansui 's engineers to design the new products , and will move Sansui 's production of most products other than sophisticated audio gear offshore into Polly Peck 's own factories . 
And while Polly Peck is n't jettisoning the existent top-management structure of Sansui , it is bringing in a former Toshiba Corp. executive as executive vice president and chief operating officer 
The bolstered cellular agreement between BellSouth Corp. and LIN Broadcasting Corp. carries heightened risks and could fail to fend off McCaw Cellular Communications Inc. , the rival suitor for LIN . 
The plan still calls for LIN to combine its cellular telephone properties with BellSouth 's and to spin off its broadcasting operations . 
LIN said it expects to borrow the money to pay the dividend 
But under new terms of the agreement , announced Friday , LIN holders would receive a special cash dividend of $ 42 a share , representing a payout of about $ 2.23 billion , shortly before the proposed merger . 
LIN said it expects to borrow the money to pay the dividend , but commitments from banks still have n't been obtained . 
Although he expressed confidence that the proposed new company 's cash flow would be sufficient to cover interest payments on the debt , he estimated that the company would n't be profitable until 1994 or later 
`` At some point , it will become non-economical for one company . 
To sweeten the pact further -- and to ease concerns of institutional investors -- BellSouth added a provision designed to give extra protection to holders 
To sweeten the pact further -- and to ease concerns of institutional investors -- BellSouth added a provision designed to give extra protection to holders if the regional Bell company ever decides to buy the rest of the new cellular company . 
To sweeten the pact further -- and to ease concerns of institutional investors -- BellSouth added a provision designed to give extra protection to holders if the regional Bell company ever decides to buy the rest of the new cellular company . 
To mollify shareholders concerned about the long-term value of the company under the BellSouth-LIN agreement , BellSouth also agreed to pay as much as $ 10 a share , or $ 540 million 
We did n't think a sleeping -LCB- Bell -RCB- mentality would be willing to take on dilution . '' 
But Kenneth Leon , a telecommunications analyst with Bear , Stearns & Co. , finds the BellSouth proposal still flawed 
BellSouth 's revised proposal surprised many industry analysts , especially because of the company 's willingness to accept some dilution of future earnings . 
Analysts were predicting 1990 BellSouth earnings in the range of $ 3.90 a share , or $ 1.9 billion 
In national over-the-counter trading , LIN shares soared $ 4.625 to closed at $ 112.625 
Mr. Leon of Bear Stearns speculated that McCaw , in an attempt to buy time , might consider filing an antitrust suit against BellSouth with the Justice Department and U.S. District Judge Harold Greene , who oversees enforcement of the consent decree that broke up the Bell system in 1984 . 
Market makers in Nasdaq over-the-counter stocks are adding their voices to the swelling chorus of complaints about program trading . 
Their motivation , however , has a strong practical aspect : Program trading is hazardous to their paychecks . 
Because of program trading it is more difficult to trade many OTC stocks without sharp price moves , a condition known as illiquidity . 
Some of these problems are neither new nor unique to the OTC market . 
Peter DaPuzzo , head of retail equity trading at Shearson Lehman Hutton , acknowledges that he was n't troubled by program trading 
Peter DaPuzzo , head of retail equity trading at Shearson Lehman Hutton , acknowledges that he was n't troubled by program trading when it began in the pre-crash bull market 
Peter DaPuzzo , head of retail equity trading at Shearson Lehman Hutton , acknowledges that he was n't troubled by program trading when it began in the pre-crash bull market because it added liquidity 
`` We were n't as concerned 
`` We were n't as concerned until they became sell programs , '' says Mr. DaPuzzo , who now thinks it adds unnecessary volatility . 
Merrill Lynch , Goldman Sachs and Kidder Peabody , in addition to Shearson , do program-trade OTC stocks . 
Of course , there were sell programs in past years , too 
That 's largely because of defensive measures they adopted after the 1987 crash , when individual investors fled the market 
Market makers , to cut costs , slashed inventories of stocks they keep on hand to sell investors 
Market makers , to cut costs , slashed inventories of stocks they keep on hand to sell investors when other holders are n't selling . 
And to protect their reduced capital investment from eroding further , market makers became quicker to lower price quotes 
On days when prices are tumbling , they must be willing to buy shares from sellers 
`` It makes no sense for us to put money at risk 
`` It makes no sense for us to put money at risk when you know you 're going to lose , '' says Mr. Antolini , of Donaldson Lufkin . 
`` It 's harder to sell stocks 
`` It 's harder to sell stocks when the sell programs come in 
No one has big positions 
Joseph Hardiman , president of the National Association of Securities Dealers , which oversees trading on Nasdaq , agrees that program trading is hurting the market 's efforts to bring back small investors . 
But , he observes , while makers suffer losses when program trading drags the market down , they also make money when program trading pushes the prices higher 
But , he observes , while makers suffer losses 
But , he observes , while makers suffer losses when program trading drags the market down 
But , he observes , while makers suffer losses when program trading drags the market down , they also make money 
When the computers say `` sell , '' the composite tumbles as well as the Dow Jones Industrial Average 
The problem , market makers say , is that while the industrial average and the S&P 500 usually recover as buy programs kick in , the Nasdaq Composite frequently is left behind 
The problem , market makers say , is that while the industrial average and the S&P 500 usually recover 
The problem , market makers say , is that while the industrial average and the S&P 500 usually recover as buy programs kick in , the Nasdaq Composite frequently is left behind . 
Weisfield 's rocketed 9 1\/2 to 39 
Starpointe Savings Bank rose 3 to 20 
London share prices closed sharply lower Friday in active trading 
London share prices closed sharply lower Friday in active trading after Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson 's resignation slapped the market 
It showed some early resilience 
It showed some early resilience after central bank support firmed sterling 
New York stocks recovered some of their losses 
Dealers said the turnover , largely confined to the 100-share index stocks , partly reflected the flurry of activity typical at the close of a two-week trading account and the start of a new account . 
Among the other actively traded blue-chip issues , Imperial Chemical Industries dropped 11 to # 10.86 , Hanson skidded 9.5 to 200.5 
Dealers placed heavy buy orders in the morning to start the first trading day for November transactions . 
Traders said that selling pressure was n't enormous 
`` If you take away the outside influences , the market itself looks very cheap 
That 's leaving small investors with cold feet , they said , and prompting institutions to take a reserved stance on the sidelines as well 
Elsewhere , share prices closed lower in Paris , Zurich , Amsterdam , Brussels and Stockholm , and were mixed in Milan . 
Walter Sisulu , the ANC 's former secretary general who served 26 years in prison 
President de Klerk 's government permitted the rally 
While lawmakers have n't raised the possibility of renewing military aid to the Contras following Ortega 's weekend threat to end a truce , Senate Majority Leader Mitchell said on NBC-TV that Ortega had made `` a very unwise move 
Congress sent to Bush an $ 8.5 billion military construction bill that cuts spending for new installations by 16 % . 
Afghan guerrillas bombarded Kabul in a weekend assault that Western diplomats called one of the biggest offensives since the Soviet Union completed a troop withdrawal in February . 
The rebels also reportedly tightened a blockade on roads leading to the capital 
Gen. Michel Aoun rejected the pact 
The plane failed to reach Molokai 's airport Saturday 
Before adjustment for inflation , the association said , orders were up a nominal 5 % 
While domestic orders climbed an adjusted 8 % and a nominal 11 % in September , foreign orders declined 4 % after inflation and 1 % on a nominal basis 
Domestic orders were up a real 11 % and a nominal 14 % 
When Michael S. Perry took the podium at a recent cosmetics industry event , more than 500 executives packing the room snapped to attention 
First Unilever , the Anglo-Dutch packaged-goods giant , spent $ 2 billion to acquire brands such as Faberge and Elizabeth Arden . 
It 's not so much the idea of acquisitions that has agitated the cosmetics industry as the companies doing the acquiring : P&G and Unilever bring with them great experience with mundane products like soap and toilet paper , sparking disdain in the glitzy cosmetics trade 
It 's not so much the idea of acquisitions that has agitated the cosmetics industry as the companies doing the acquiring : P&G and Unilever bring with them great experience with mundane products like soap and toilet paper , sparking disdain in the glitzy cosmetics trade 
Though it is far from certain that companies best known for selling Promise margarine and Tide detergent will succeed in cosmetics , there 's little doubt they will shake up the industry 
For now , both companies are keeping quiet about their specific plans . 
Likely changes include more emphasis on research , soaring advertising budgets and aggressive pricing . 
Cosmetics companies roll out new makeup colors several times a year 
Cosmetics companies roll out new makeup colors several times a year , and since most products can be easily copied by competitors , they 're loath to test them with consumers 
`` Just because upscale cosmetics look like packaged goods and smell like packaged goods , it does n't mean they are packaged goods 
Both companies are conservative marketers that rely on extensive market research . 
P&G set out to reposition the brand by broadening the product line to include facial cleansers and moisturizers for sensitive skin . 
It also redesigned Oil of Olay 's packaging , stamping the traditional pink boxes with gold lines to create a more opulent look . 
Unilever wo n't comment 
While the two are among the world 's biggest advertisers , most makers of upscale cosmetics spend relatively little on national ads 
While the two are among the world 's biggest advertisers , most makers of upscale cosmetics spend relatively little on national ads . 
While the two are among the world 's biggest advertisers , most makers of upscale cosmetics spend relatively little on national ads . 
Estee Lauder , for example , spends only an estimated 5 % of sales on advertising in the 
The presence of Unilever and P&G is likely to increase the impact of advertising on cosmetics . 
As the trend continues , demand for mass-market items that are high quality but only mid-priced -- particularly skin-care products -- is expected to increase 
As the trend continues , demand for mass-market items that are high quality but only mid-priced -- particularly skin-care products -- is expected to increase . 
Unlike the old-line cosmetics houses , Unilever and P&G both have enormous research and development bases to draw on for new products . 
P&G , in fact , is noted for gaining market leadership by introducing products that offer a technical edge over the competition . 
Sales of its Tide detergent soared earlier this year , for example 
The packaged-goods marketers may try filling that gap with a spate of new products . 
Colgate , which acquired Helena Rubenstein in 1973 , sold the brand seven years later 
In this niche , makeup colors change seasonally 
Because brand loyalty is weak and most cosmetics purchases are unplanned , careful training of store sales staffs by cosmetics companies is important 
Because brand loyalty is weak 
Because brand loyalty is weak and most cosmetics purchases are unplanned , careful training of store sales staffs by cosmetics companies is important . 
After years of mistrust born of Watergate , past misdeeds of the Central Intelligence Agency , and the Iran-Contra scandal , President Bush and the Senate Intelligence Committee appear ready -- for now , at least -- to trust each other 
If that attitude lasts , it could infuse covert action planning with a level of care and confidence that has n't been seen in years 
Over the past week , the president has agreed to keep the committee informed , usually in advance , of covert actions and to put key intelligence decisions in writing . 
Mr. Bush has pledged as well to respect the 14-year-old executive order barring U.S. agents from assassinating foreign leaders or helping others to do so . 
In return , the Senate panel has dropped efforts to enact legislation requiring the administration to inform it within 48 hours of the launching of any covert activity . 
Mr. Bush even disclosed privately that one Reagan-era deal with Congress required him to notify the odious Panamanian dictator , Manuel Noriega 
Mr. Bush even disclosed privately that one Reagan-era deal with Congress required him to notify the odious Panamanian dictator , Manuel Noriega , if the U.S. learned of a coup plot that might endanger his life . 
The president also hinted he might veto this year 's intelligence authorization bill 
The White House got the better of the exchange but took care not to press its advantage to the kind of constitutional confrontation sought by conservative Republicans who do n't want any congressional oversight of intelligence activities . 
Sen. Boren happily told reporters that there had been `` a meeting of the minds '' with the White House 
There may be a truce in the long war of nerves between the White House and Congress over how this country conducts secret intelligence operations abroad . 
Mr. Bush is reserving the right in `` rare '' instances to keep Congress in the dark , asserting a constitutional prerogative the committee does n't recognize . 
And a pending Justice Department interpretation of the assassination ban could raise questions that would have to be settled . 
Some conservatives will accuse the president of promising Congress too much . 
At the same time , some congressional liberals will accuse Sens. Boren and Cohen of wimping out 
At the same time , some congressional liberals will accuse Sens. Boren and Cohen of wimping out , and they will warn that the lawmakers ' concessions raise the specter of more internationally embarrassing covert operations like the mining of Nicaraguan harbors and the Iran arms sales . 
But if the cooperative attitude holds and there is greater consultation on covert activities , the country could be entering an era when such hare-brained schemes are scrapped before they get off the drawing boards , while risky but well-planned secret operations can be undertaken without fear that a panicky Congress will balk 
But if the cooperative attitude holds 
But if the cooperative attitude holds and there is greater consultation on covert activities , the country could be entering an era when such hare-brained schemes are scrapped 
But if the cooperative attitude holds and there is greater consultation on covert activities , the country could be entering an era when such hare-brained schemes are scrapped before they get off the drawing boards 
As the air clears from last week 's storm of resignations and reshufflings , the government faces a daunting job of rebuilding confidence in its policies 
The prime minister and her new chancellor of the exchequer , the untested John Major , need to haul the country through something like a recession to bring down inflation and set the economy moving again . Mrs. Thatcher has to come to terms with European economic integration , beginning with the European Monetary System , which Britain is committed to joining fully someday . 
It sounds like the work of a decade 
Though Mrs. Thatcher has pulled through other crises , supporters wonder if her steely , autocratic ways are the right formula today 
Last week , the strategy of playing the two experts off each other blew up : Mr. Lawson quit in exasperation 
Economists have been anticipating a slump for months 
A mild slowdown probably would have run its course by early 1991 
Recovery could be hampered 
Though Mrs. Thatcher does n't need to call an election until June 1992 , she would prefer doing so in late 1991 
`` If the economy shows no sign of turning around in about year 's time , she will be very vulnerable 
At a June EC summit , Mrs. Thatcher appeared to ease her opposition to full EMS membership , saying Britain would join 
At a June EC summit , Mrs. Thatcher appeared to ease her opposition to full EMS membership , saying Britain would join once its inflation rate fell 
Of immediate concern is whether the Thatcher government will continue Mr. Lawson 's policy of tracking the monetary policies of the West German Bundesbank and responding in kind 
As Conservatives rally around Mrs. Thatcher during the crisis , many harbor hopes last week 's debacle will prompt change 
As we queasily start The search for replacements , we know The new one we purchase in hopes it will do , Despite every wonder that 's stated , Means more speed , more graphics , more memory , too , But also more quickly out - dated 
I know when dividends are due ; When bonds should be retired 
Wives May Not Benefit 
WHEN HUSBANDS take on more housework , they tend to substitute for chores done by the kids rather than by the wife 
Not unexpectedly , wives , whether working or non-working , did by far the most -- about 80 % of the shopping , laundry and cooking , and about two-thirds of housecleaning , washing dishes , child care and family paper work . Only for yardwork and home maintenance did women do less than half . 
But the researchers found that while children 's household tasks eased the mother 's burden appreciably , the husband 's helping hand `` appears to lighten the children 's load almost on a one-for-one basis and to reduce the wife 's responsibility only modestly 
In these families , husbands took on 80 % more chores than in couples with only grammar school education . 
State governments place very low ceilings on how much property people may own or how much income they may keep 
Conventional wisdom has long held that anywhere from one-fourth to one-half of all elderly long-term care patients are obliged to spend themselves into poverty 
Conventional wisdom has long held that anywhere from one-fourth to one-half of all elderly long-term care patients are obliged to spend themselves into poverty before qualifying for Medicaid assistance . 
But separate reports from Joshua Weiner and Denise Spence of the Brookings Institution and Korbin Liu of the Urban Institute find that `` a surprisingly small proportion '' -- only about 10 % -- of residents start out as private payers but `` spend down '' to Medicaid levels in a single nursing home stay 
-LRB- Another one-third are already on Medicaid when they enter the nursing homes , a considerably higher proportion than the analysts anticipated . -RRB- 
But separate reports from Joshua Weiner and Denise Spence of the Brookings Institution and Korbin Liu of the Urban Institute find that `` a surprisingly small proportion '' -- only about 10 % -- of residents start out as private payers but `` spend down '' to Medicaid levels in a single nursing home stay before they die or are discharged . 
About one-third pay out of their own pockets 
About one-third pay out of their own pockets , while the rest are covered throughout by Medicare , private insurers or the Veterans Administration . 
The Brookings and Urban Institute authors caution , however , that most nursing home stays are of comparatively short duration 
The Brookings and Urban Institute authors caution , however , that most nursing home stays are of comparatively short duration , and reaching the Medicaid level is more likely with an unusually long stay or repeated stays . 
Many political analysts have speculated that the Reagan years would produce a staunchly conservative younger generation . 
NORC 's most recent opinion surveys find the youngest adults indeed somewhat more pro-Reagan and pro-Republican than other adults . 
Answers to a dozen questions in the 1986 , 1987 , 1988 and 1989 national surveys reveal that men and women in the 18 to 24 age bracket are considerably more liberal on race and gender than were the 18 to 24 year olds in NORC 's polling in the early 1970s and early 1980s . 
Answers to a dozen questions in the 1986 , 1987 , 1988 and 1989 national surveys reveal that men and women in the 18 to 24 age bracket are considerably more liberal on race and gender than were the 18 to 24 year olds in NORC 's polling in the early 1970s and early 1980s . 
He had been summoned to the Central Committee of the Soviet Communist Party 
`` I told my driver , '' he said , `` that he was taking my butt to the Central Committee 
`` I told my driver , '' he said , `` that he was taking my butt to the Central Committee so they can ... '' whack , whack , whack his hand made vigorous spanking gestures on his left palm . `` They feel the need from time to time to ` educate ' me . '' 
We 're standing in gasoline 
U.S. and northern European diplomats confirm Mr. Korotich 's assessment that glasnost is in no immediate danger . 
When Mr. Korotich took it over in 1986 , it sold 250,000 copies 
When Mr. Korotich took it over in 1986 , it sold 250,000 copies ; today it sells 3.4 million . 
Glasnost has made celebrities of men like Mr. Korotich . 
The czars were no civil libertarians . As late as the 1890s , the Russian government prevented any coverage of famines . It even directed newspapers not to publish anything that might stain the honor of the Turkish sultan 's wives . Censorship is n't a Marxist invention . 
`` I 'd be destroying myself , '' replies Mr. Korotich 
'' His answer reveals his vulnerability 
A state trial judge in Illinois gave preliminary approval to a proposed settlement of a suit against a Bank of New York Co. unit , Irving Trust Co. , over the interest rates on Irving 's former One Wall Street Account money-market deposit accounts . 
They claimed that the Fed would first give a green light to the economy by making credit readily available 
They claimed that the Fed would first give a green light to the economy by making credit readily available and then turn on the red and bring growth to a screeching halt . 
A supremely cautious man , the Fed chairman is forever blinking yellow . 
After thoroughly digesting reams of information , he often concludes that more data are needed 
After thoroughly digesting reams of information , he often concludes that more data are needed 
After thoroughly digesting reams of information , he often concludes that more data are needed , and when he finally decides to act , his movements sometimes seem excrutiatingly small 
Some Bush administration officials urged Mr. Greenspan to make an immediate public announcement of his plans to provide ample credit to the markets . 
But he refused , claiming that he wanted to see what happened Monday morning 
But he refused , claiming that he wanted to see what happened Monday morning before making any public statement . 
The statement angered Chairman Greenspan 
A `` senior Fed official '' spoke on Saturday after the market swoon to both the Washington Post and the New York Times , saying the Fed was prepared to provide as much credit as the markets needed . 
And , while the mutinous Fed member has n't gone public , some Fed governors , most notably Vice Chairman Manuel Johnson , are known to have disagreed with the chairman 's decision to remain silent 
Mr. Brady hesitantly replied that he was n't sure whether Mr. Greenspan `` made a statement himself 
A surprisingly small amount of reserves was added to the banking system . 
Those concerns are n't expressed in public . 
In fact , the administration and the Fed have been going out of their way in the past two weeks to dispel any impression that they are at odds , fearing stories about an administration-Fed split added to the stock market 's jitters . 
Factory payrolls and production fell in September 
The economy is showing signs of weakness , particularly among manufacturers . 
But Mr. Greenspan remains reluctant to loosen policy 
But Mr. Greenspan remains reluctant to loosen policy , partly because he faces a phalanx of presidents of regional Fed banks who oppose credit easing . 
Inflation may be stable at the moment , running at about 4.5 % . 
But if the Fed eases too soon , Mr. Greenspan fears , prices may begin to accelerate again next year 
But if the Fed eases too soon , Mr. Greenspan fears , prices may begin to accelerate again next year . 
Moreover , if the Fed holds tight , it may be able gradually to reduce inflation 
`` We 've gotten through two stock market crashes 
So far , Mr. Greenspan 's cautious approach to policy has served both him and the nation well . 
If that happens , Chairman Greenspan could well become an open target 
If the economy turns down , such proposals could gain strong momentum 
ECI Environmental Inc. , initial offering of 1.1 million shares , of which ECI will sell 990,000 
In an age of specialization , the federal judiciary is one of the last bastions of the generalist . 
But even on the federal bench , specialization is creeping in 
The Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit was created in 1982 to serve , among other things , as the court of last resort for most patent disputes . 
Some patent lawyers had hoped that such a specialty court would be filled with experts in the field . 
But the Reagan administration thought otherwise 
Three seats currently are vacant 
Three seats currently are vacant and three others are likely to be filled within a few years 
`` We do not feel that seats are reserved -LRB- for patent lawyers -RRB- , '' says Justice spokesman David Runkel , who declines to say how soon a candidate will be named . 
The Justice Department 's view is shared by other lawyers and at least one member of the court , Judge H. Robert Mayer , a former civil litigator who served at the claims court trial level 
The Justice Department 's view is shared by other lawyers and at least one member of the court , Judge H. Robert Mayer , a former civil litigator who served at the claims court trial level before he was appointed to the Federal Circuit two years ago . 
If the Supreme Court holds in Medtronic 's favor , the decision will have billion-dollar consequences for the manufacturers of medical devices , color and food additives and all other non-drug products that required Food & Drug Administration approval 
Lisa Raines , a lawyer and director of government relations for the Industrial Biotechnical Association , contends that a judge well-versed in patent law and the concerns of research-based industries would have ruled otherwise . 
And Judge Newman , a former patent lawyer , wrote in her dissent when the court denied a motion for a rehearing of the case by the full court , `` The panel 's judicial legislation has affected an important high-technological industry , without regard to the consequences for research and innovation or the public interest 
By the end of this year , 63-year-old Chairman Silas Cathcart -- the former chairman of Illinois Tool Works who was derided as a `` tool-and-die man 
By the end of this year , 63-year-old Chairman Silas Cathcart -- the former chairman of Illinois Tool Works who was derided as a `` tool-and-die man '' when GE brought him in to clean up Kidder in 1987 -- retires to his Lake Forest , Ill. , home , possibly to build a shopping mall on some land he owns . 
Gary S. Goldstein , president of the Whitney Group , an executive search firm , said : `` I 'd like to see -LRB- Kidder -RRB- succeed . 
Its 1,400-member brokerage operation reported an estimated $ 5 million loss last year 
Its 1,400-member brokerage operation reported an estimated $ 5 million loss last year , although Kidder expects it to turn a profit this year . 
In fact , Kidder is a minor player in just about every business it does except computer-driven program trading ; in that controversial business , only Morgan Stanley & Co. rivals Kidder . 
But even that niche is under attack 
The firm 's brokerage force has been trimmed 
Mr. Carpenter says that when he assumes full control , Kidder will finally tap the resources of GE 
One of GE 's goals when it bought 80 % of Kidder in 1986 was to take advantage of `` syngeries '' between Kidder and General Electric Capital Corp. , GE 's corporate-finance unit , which has $ 42 billion in assets 
So far , instead of teaming up , GE Capital staffers and Kidder investment bankers have bickered . 
The units have worked on 37 investment banking deals this year 
It 's been a steadily improving relationship , '' says Mr. Carpenter . 
Still , without many actual deals to show off , Kidder is left to stress that it finally has `` a team '' in place 
A new in-house magazine , Kidder World -- which will focus on the firm 's synergy strategy , says Mr. Carpenter -- confides that on weekends Mr. Newquist `` often gets value-added ideas 
`` The Kidder name is one of only six or seven that every CEO recognizes as a viable alternative 
The result : Kidder will focus on rich individual investors and small companies , much closer to the clientele of Goldman , Sachs & Co. than a serve-the-world firm like Merrill Lynch or Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc . 
As part of the upscale push , Kidder is putting brokers through a 20-week training course , turning them into `` investment counselors '' with knowledge of corporate finance . 
Theoretically , the brokers will then be able to funnel `` leads '' on corporate finance opportunities to Kidder 's investment bankers , possibly easing the longstanding tension between the two camps . 
Kidder competitors are n't outwardly hostile to the firm , as many are to a tough competitor like Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. that does n't have Kidder 's long history . 
However , competitors say that Kidder 's hiring binge involving executive-level staffers , some with multiple-year contract guarantees , could backfire 
Mr. Cathcart , who will return to the Quaker Oats Co. board of directors , in addition to his personal ventures , is credited with bringing some basic budgeting and planning discipline to traditionally free-wheeling Kidder . 
Smiling broadly 
In coming years , Mr. Cathcart says , Kidder is `` gon na hum . '' 
Mr. Lee , president of Luzon Petrochemical Corp. , said the contract was signed Wednesday in Tokyo with USI Far East officials . 
At an estimated $ 360 million , the project would represent the single largest foreign investment in the Philippines 
At an estimated $ 360 million , the project would represent the single largest foreign investment in the Philippines since President Corazon Aquino took office in February 1986 . 
The project has been in and out of the pipeline for more than a decade . 
However , workers ca n't break ground 
The country 's Supreme Court dismissed the suit 
As previously reported , a member of the Philippines ' House of Representatives has sued to stop the plant . 
In addition , President Aquino has yet to sign into law a bill removing a stiff 48 % tax on naphtha , the principal raw material to be used in the cracker . 
`` We have tried our best to tell the people in Bataan that maybe this time it will not go to them 
The project appeared to be on the rocks earlier this month when the other major partner in the project , China General Plastics Corp. , backed out . 
Three new issues begin trading on the New York Stock Exchange today 
On the Big Board , Crawford & Co. , Atlanta , -LRB- CFD -RRB- begins trading today . 
Whatever one thinks of the idea , it 's far more than the budgetary gimmick it may seem at first glance . 
Although that may sound like an arcane maneuver of little interest outside Washington , it would set off a political earthquake 
White House aides know it 's a step that ca n't be taken lightly 
They prefer to put off the line-item veto until at least next year . 
Those bills ca n't easily be vetoed in their entirety 
More provocatively , some conservative legal theorists have begun arguing that Mr. Bush does n't need to wait for a law giving him the veto 
They base their argument on a clause buried in Article I , Section 7 , of the Constitution that states : `` Every order , resolution , or vote to which the concurrence of the Senate and House of Representatives may be necessary -LRB- except on a question of adjournment -RRB- shall be presented to the President of the United States ; and before the same shall take effect , shall be approved by him or ... disapproved by him 
There 's little doubt that such a move would be immediately challenged in court 
`` It 's a major issue 
If a president had a line-item veto and wanted to force him to support a controversial foreign-policy initiative , Rep. Edwards says , the president could call and declare that he would single-handedly kill the BART funds unless the congressman `` shapes up '' on the foreign-policy issue 
If a president had a line-item veto and wanted to force him to support a controversial foreign-policy initiative , Rep. Edwards says , the president could call and declare that he would single-handedly kill the BART funds 
Proponents maintain that a president would choose to use a line-item veto more judiciously than that . 
Governors have found that they have to use the device sparingly to maintain political comity . 
And it is n't even clear that some pork-barrel projects can be hit with a line-item veto 
But there may be another problem with the device : Despite all the political angst it would cause , it might n't be effective in cutting the deficit . 
Lawmakers , they say , would avoid putting many spending projects into legislation in the first place for fear of the embarrassment 
Republicans have as much interest as Democrats in `` the way the system works , '' he notes . 
Indeed , although a majority of Republican lawmakers favor a line-item veto , some , ranging from liberal Oregon Sen. Mark Hatfield to conservative Rep. Edwards are opposed 
Conservatives pushing for a line-item veto now 
`` Every order , resolution , or vote to which the concurrence of the Senate and House of Representatives may be necessary -LRB- except on a question of adjournment -RRB- shall be presented to the President of the United States ; and before the same shall take effect , shall be approved by him , or being disapproved by him , shall be repassed by two-thirds of the Senate and House of Representatives , according to the rules and limitations prescribed in the case of a bill 
The oat-bran craze has cost the world 's largest cereal maker market share . The company 's president quit suddenly . 
The company said it was delaying construction because of current market conditions . 
But the Memphis , Tenn. , facility was n't to begin turning out product until 1993 
Kellogg 's current share is believed to be slightly under 40 % 
`` Cheerios and Honey Nut Cheerios have eaten away sales normally going to Kellogg 's corn-based lines 
Mr. Maxwell said he would n't be surprised 
He said construction would n't resume 
Kellogg indicated that it has room to grow without adding facilities . 
General Mills , meanwhile , finds itself constrained from boosting sales further 
`` As we regain our leadership level where we have been , and as we continue to put new products into the marketplace and need additional capacity , we will look at resuming our involvement with our plan 
`` As we regain our leadership level where we have been 
`` As we regain our leadership level where we have been , and as we continue to put new products into the marketplace and need additional capacity , we will look at resuming our involvement with our plan 
The new facility was to have been the world 's most advanced cereal manufacturing plant , and Kellogg 's largest construction project . 
Last Friday 's announcement was the first official word that the project was in trouble 
Although he called current market conditions `` highly competitive , '' Mr. LaMothe , Kellogg 's chairman and chief executive officer , forecast an earnings increase for the full year 
Though the split has long been expected , the exchanges are n't fully prepared to go their separate ways 
The finance minister 's order was n't sparked by a single event and does n't indicate a souring in relations between the neighboring countries . 
Imports rose 11 % to 18.443 trillion lire in September from a year earlier 
In the nine months , imports rose 20 % to 155.039 trillion lire 
Import values are calculated on a cost , insurance and freight -LRB- c.i.f . -RRB- basis 
As competition heats up in Spain 's crowded bank market , Banco Exterior de Espana is seeking to shed its image of a state-owned bank and move into new activities 
The government directly owns 51.4 % 
As competition heats up in Spain 's crowded bank market , Banco Exterior de Espana is seeking to shed its image of a state-owned bank and move into new activities . 
Catching up with commercial competitors in retail banking and financial services , they argue , will be difficult 
If that proves true , analysts say Banco Exterior could be a prime partner -- or even a takeover target -- for either a Spanish or foreign bank seeking to increase its market share after 1992 
With 700 branches in Spain and 12 banking subsidiaries , five branches and 12 representative offices abroad , the Banco Exterior group has a lot to offer a potential suitor . 
Mr. Luzon and his team , however , say they are n't interested in a merger . 
Banco Exterior was created in 1929 to provide subsidized credits for Spanish exports . 
The market for export financing was liberalized in the mid-1980s , however , forcing the bank to face competition . At the same time , many of Spain 's traditional export markets in Latin America and other developing areas faced a sharp decline in economic growth . 
As a result , the volume of Banco Exterior 's export credit portfolio plunged from 824 billion pesatas -LRB- $ 7.04 billion -RRB- as of Dec. 31 , 1986 , to its current 522 billion pesetas . 
Until Mr. Luzon took the helm last November , Banco Exterior was run by politicians who lacked either the skills or the will to introduce innovative changes 
Until Mr. Luzon took the helm last November , Banco Exterior was run by politicians who lacked either the skills or the will to introduce innovative changes . 
Though Spain has an excess of banks , analysts say the country still has one of the most profitable markets in Europe 
The bank is now aggressively marketing retail services at its domestic branches . 
The bank says it 's interested in purchasing banks in Morocco , Portugal and Puerto Rico . 
Banco Exterior was one of the last banks to create a brokerage house 
The late start may be a handicap for the bank 
The late start may be a handicap for the bank as Spain continues to open up its market to foreign competition . 
But Mr. Luzon contends that the experienced team he brought with him from Banco Bilbao Vizcaya , where he was formerly director general , will whip the bank 's capital market division into shape by the end of 1992 . 
He intends to add to the litigation staff . 
GM lawyers have been working with technicians to develop more uniform welding procedures -- the way a vehicle is welded has a lot to do with its durability . 
The Manhattan U.S. attorney 's office stressed criminal cases from 1980 to 1987 , averaging 43 for every 100,000 adults . 
Mrs. Marcos and her late husband , former Philippines President Ferdinand Marcos , were charged with embezzling more than $ 100 million from that country 
The U.S. attorney 's office , in documents it filed in response , said Mrs. Marcos was making the `` fanciful -- and factually unsupported -- claim that she was kidnapped into this country '' in order to obtain classified material in the case . 
The office also said Mrs. Marcos and her husband were n't brought to the U.S. against their will 
The prosecutor quoted statements from the Marcoses in which they said they were in this country at the invitation of President Reagan 
Lawyers for Mrs. Marcos say that because she was taken to the U.S. against her wishes , the federal court lacks jurisdiction in the case 
A federal judge in Manhattan threw out the indictment , finding that the seven-year delay violated the defendant 's constitutional right to a speedy trial . 
The state bar association 's policy making body , the House of Delegate , voted Saturday to ask Chief Judge Sol Wachtler to give the bar 's voluntary program three years to prove its effectiveness 
The head of the nation 's largest car-dealers group is telling dealers to `` just say no 
Mr. Tonkin , who has been feuding with the Big Three 
U.S. car dealers had an average of 59 days ' supply of cars in their lots at the end of September , according to Ward 's Automotive Reports . 
It `` is going to sound neat to the dealer 
It `` is going to sound neat to the dealer except when his 15-day car supply does n't include the bright red one that the lady wants to buy 
A grand jury has been investigating whether officials at Southern Co. conspired to cover up their accounting for spare parts to evade federal income taxes . 
Officials at Gulf Power could n't be reached for comment . 
While Southern Co. has been reluctant to discuss the grand jury investigations , Edward L. Addison , chief executive officer , has said the company is prepared to defend its tax and acccounting practices if any charges are brought against it 
While Southern Co. has been reluctant to discuss the grand jury investigations , Edward L. Addison , chief executive officer , has said the company is prepared to defend its tax and acccounting practices 
Gulf Power said in May that an internal audit had disclosed that at least one vendor had used false invoices to fund political causes . 
The banking company said it reached an agreement in principle with International Business Machines Corp. on a systems operations contract calling for IBM to operate First Tennessee 's computer and telecommunications functions . 
`` Because personal computers will soon be on the desks of all of our tellers , and customer service and loan representatives , information will be instantly available to help customers with product decisions and provide them with information about their accounts 
The banking company said it reached an agreement in principle with International Business Machines Corp. on a systems operations contract calling for IBM to operate First Tennessee 's computer and telecommunications functions . 
In its report to Congress on international economic policies , the Treasury said that any improvement in the broadest measure of trade , known as the current account , `` is likely at best to be very modest 
The Treasury 's report , which is required annually by a provision of the 1988 trade act , again took South Korea to task for its exchange-rate policies . 
The Senate , 84-6 , voted to increase to $ 124,000 the ceiling on insured mortgages from the FHA , which lost $ 4.2 billion in loan defaults last year . 
The agreement was announced by Costa Rican President Oscar Arias Friday 
Costa Rica had been negotiating with the U.S. and other banks for three years 
Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady called the agreement `` an important step forward in the strengthened debt strategy , '' noting that it will `` when implemented , provide significant reduction in the level of debt and debt service owed by Costa Rica 
The International Monetary Fund and the World Bank are expected to provide approximately $ 180 million to help support the deal 
The Treasury said it plans to sell $ 2 billion of 51-day cash-management bills today , raising all new cash . 
The Treasury also announced details of this week 's unusual bill auction , which has been changed to accommodate the expiration of the federal debt ceiling at midnight tomorrow . 
The Treasury also said noncompetitive tenders will be considered timely 
American Pioneer , parent of American Pioneer Savings Bank , said the sale will add capital and reduce the level of investments in subsidiaries for the thrift holding company . 
The banking operation had a loss of $ 8.7 million in the second quarter , largely because of problem real-estate loans 
On the surface , the overall unemployment rate is expected to be little changed from September 's 5.3 % . 
The consensus view calls for an overall job gain of 155,000 compared with September 's 209,000 increase . 
Mr. Englund added that next month 's data is n't likely to be much better 
A reading of less than 50 % indicates an economy that is generally contracting 
Samuel D. Kahan , chief financial economist at Kleinwort Benson Government Securities Inc. , Chicago , said that the purchasers ' report is valuable 
Samuel D. Kahan , chief financial economist at Kleinwort Benson Government Securities Inc. , Chicago , said that the purchasers ' report is valuable because it often presents the first inkling of economic data for the month . 
But he added : `` Some people use the purchasers ' index as a leading indicator , some use it as a coincident indicator . 
David Wyss , chief financial economist at Data Resources Inc. , Boston , said that the purchasers ' index `` does miss occasionally , '' adding : `` When it misses one month it tends to miss the next month , too 
Usually , October `` is n't a very interesting month -LCB- for retail figures -RCB- 
Usually , October `` is n't a very interesting month -LCB- for retail figures -RCB- because school clothes have been bought 
Usually , October `` is n't a very interesting month -LCB- for retail figures -RCB- because school clothes have been bought and people are waiting for December to buy Christmas presents , '' he said . 
What 's more , he believes seasonal swings in the auto industry this year are n't occurring at the same time as in the past , because of production and pricing differences that are curbing the accuracy of seasonal adjustments built into the employment data . 
Construction spending is believed to have slipped about 0.5 % from August levels 
Factory owners are buying new machinery at a good rate this fall 
`` The outlook is positive for the intermediate to long term . '' 
`` Aerospace orders are very good , '' Mr. Cole says . 
While some automotive programs have been delayed , they have n't been canceled 
September orders for all U.S. producers , in fact , were slightly above the monthly average for 1988 , a good year for the industry . 
But sales of North American-made 1990-model cars are running at an annual rate of only six million , down from 7.1 million a year earlier . 
But sales of North American-made 1990-model cars are running at an annual rate of only six million , down from 7.1 million a year earlier . 
Auto makers , who began deferring some equipment purchases last spring , can be expected to remain cautious about spending 
Auto makers , who began deferring some equipment purchases last spring , can be expected to remain cautious about spending if their sales do n't pick up , machine tool builders say . 
There is demand for state-of-the-art machine tools in the Soviet Union and in other Eastern European countries 
Machine tool executives are hopeful , however , that recent developments in Eastern Europe will expand markets for U.S.-made machine tools in that region . 
`` The Commerce Department says go 
If that controversy continues , U.S. machine tool makers say , West German and other foreign producers are likely to grab most of the sales in Eastern Europe 
Today 's presses are large and costly machines 
Shipments have run well ahead of 1988 all year 
That was up 2.8 % from a year earlier 
`` When they talk mega-issues , they 're truly talking mega 
At least 40 companies are coming to the capital market to raise $ 6 billion , an amount never thought possible in India . 
One is whether there is enough money to fund the new issues without depressing stock trading . 
Moreover , in the relatively unregulated Indian stock markets , investors frequently do n't know what they are getting 
Some of the large amounts are being raised by small firms . A prospectus in India does n't always tell a potential investor much . 
In addition , once money is raised , investors usually have no way of knowing how it is spent 
The Indian stock markets have been on a five-year high , with dips and corrections 
The Indian stock markets have been on a five-year high , with dips and corrections , since Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi started liberalizing industry . 
This year 's biggest issue , $ 570 million of convertible debentures by engineering company Larsen & Toubro Ltd. , is the largest in Indian history . 
Convertible debentures -- bonds that can later be converted into equity shares -- are the most popular instrument this year 
Convertible debentures -- bonds that can later be converted into equity shares -- are the most popular instrument this year 
In the past , the socialist policies of the government strictly limited the size of new steel mills , petrochemical plants , car factories and other industrial concerns to conserve resources and restrict the profits businessmen could make . 
When Mr. Gandhi came to power , he ushered in new rules for business 
If the output was too great for the domestic market , he said , companies should export 
India 's overregulated businessmen had to be persuaded 
Some of the projects being funded by the new issues are the first fruits of Mr. Gandhi 's policy 
Mr. Gandhi has called general elections for November 
Some companies are raising money in anticipation of a government less predictable than Mr. Gandhi 's , and possibly more restrictive . 
No one admits to anything 
While many investors are selling parts of their portfolios to buy the new issues , prices on India 's 16 stock exchanges are holding up so far 
Says M.J. Pherwani , chairman of the Unit Trust of India : The `` markets are headed for growth unheard of and unseen before . '' 
But with growth come growing pains 
Various ministries decided the products businessmen could produce and how much 
The government has been content with this far-reaching , subtle form of control , exercised on a case-by-case basis with no clear rules or guidelines . 
The Securities and Exchange Board of India was set up earlier this year , along the lines of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission 
Mr. Dave , its head , acts cheery and patient 
He says the big questions -- `` Do you really need this much money to put up these investments ? Have you told investors what is happening in your sector ? What about your track record ? -- `` are n't asked of companies coming to market . 
Although Larsen & Toubro had n't raised money from the public in 38 years , its new owners frequently raise funds on the local market 
Once the money is raised , it is n't always certain how it is used 
Once the money is raised , it is n't always certain how it is used . 
Unlike other companies , it has n't pin-pointed specific projects for the funds . 
And even when specific projects are described in prospectuses , the money often is used elsewhere 
They 're trying to plug the various loopholes 
S.A. brewing would make a takeover offer for all of Bell Resources if it exercises the option , according to the commission 
Under the accord , Finnair agreed to coordinate flights , marketing and other functions with SAS , the 50%-state-owned airline of Denmark , Norway and Sweden . 
Neither disclosed details pending board meetings next month . 
General Motors Corp. and Ford Motor Co. are now going head to head in the markets for shares of Jaguar PLC 
Ford got a similar go-ahead earlier in October 
With the golden share as protection , Jaguar officials have rebuffed Ford 's overtures 
Jaguar officials have indicated they are close to wrapping up a friendly alliance with GM that would preserve Jaguar 's independence 
Jaguar officials have indicated they are close to wrapping up a friendly alliance with GM that would preserve Jaguar 's independence , but no deal has been announced . 
Analysts continued to speculate late last week that Ford may try to force the issue by calling for a special shareholder 's meeting and urging that the government and Jaguar holders remove the barriers to a full bidding contest before December 1990 . 
Jaguar and GM hope to win Jaguar shareholders approval for the accord partly by structuring it in a way that would n't preclude a full Ford bid 
`` There 's either a minority -LCB- stake -RCB- package capable of getting Jaguar shareholder approval 
If there is n't , -LCB- the deal -RCB- wo n't be put forward '' to shareholders 
Jaguar and GM hope to win Jaguar shareholders approval for the accord partly by structuring it in a way that would n't preclude a full Ford bid once the golden share expires . 
One auto-industry union leader said , `` If they try to build it somewhere else -LCB- in Europe -RCB- besides the U.K. , they are going to be in big trouble '' with unionists over any Jaguar deal 
These are the last words Abbie Hoffman ever uttered , more or less 
These are the last words Abbie Hoffman ever uttered , more or less , before he killed himself . 
The segment is soon to be broadcast on the CBS News series `` Saturday Night With Connie Chung 
Ms. Chung 's program is just one of several network shows -LRB- and many more in syndication -RRB- that rely on the controversial technique of reconstructing events , using actors who are supposed to resemble real people , living and dead . 
Broadcasters have a healthy appreciation of the role entertainment values play in captivating an audience . 
But , as CBS Broadcast Group president Howard Stringer puts it , the network now needs to `` broaden the horizons of nonfiction television 
Since its premiere Sept. 16 , the show on which Ms. Chung appears has used an actor to portray the Rev. Vernon Johns , a civil-rights leader , and one to play a teenage drug dealer . It has depicted the bombing of Pan Am flight 103 over the Scottish town of Lockerbie . On Oct. 21 , it did a rendition of the kidnapping and imprisonment of Associated Press correspondent Terry Anderson , who was abducted in March 1985 and is believed to be held in Lebanon . The production had actors playing Mr. Anderson and former hostages David Jacobsen , the Rev. Benjamin Weir and Father Lawrence Jenco . 
Call it a fad . 
NBC 's re-creations are produced by Cosgrove-Meurer Productions 
The marriage of news and theater , if not exactly inevitable , has been consummated nonetheless 
Call it a fad . Or call it the wave of the future . 
News programs , particularly if they score well in the ratings , appeal to the networks ' cost-conscious corporate parents 
News programs , particularly if they score well in the ratings , appeal to the networks ' cost-conscious corporate parents 
The network deals a lot with unknowns , including Scott Wentworth , who portrayed Mr. Anderson , and Bill Alton as Father Jenco 
That is n't much compared with what Bill Cosby makes , or even Connie Chung for that matter -LRB- who is paid $ 1.6 million a year 
That is n't much compared with what Bill Cosby makes , or even Connie Chung for that matter -LRB- who is paid $ 1.6 million a year and who recently did a guest shot of her own on the sitcom `` Murphy Brown '' -RRB- . 
CBS News , which as recently as two years ago fired hundreds of its employees in budget cutbacks , now hires featured actors beginning at $ 2,700 a week . 
`` They 're filming right now at the bank down the street 
Though a re-enactment may have the flavor , Hollywood on the Hudson it is n't 
Some producers seem tentative about the technique , squeamish even . 
So the results , while not news , are n't exactly theater either , at least not good theater . 
In his review of `` Saturday Night With Connie Chung , '' Tom Shales , the TV critic of the Washington Post and generally an admirer of CBS , wrote that while the show is `` impressive , ... one has to wonder if this is the proper direction for a network news division to take 
Says she : `` Once you add dramatizations , it 's no longer news , it 's drama 
Says she : `` Once you add dramatizations , it 's no longer news , it 's drama 
Criticism of the Abbie Hoffman segment is particularly scathing among people who knew and loved the man . 
Mr. Silvers says , `` I wanted to be interviewed to get Abbie 's story out 
Mr. Lieber , the actor who plays Mr. Hoffman , says he was concerned at first that the script would `` misrepresent an astute political mind , one that I admired 
The producers , he says , did a good job of depicting someone `` who had done so much 
The producers , he says , did a good job of depicting someone `` who had done so much 
Dentsu has U.S. subsidiaries 
What is driving Dentsu 's international expansion largely is the need to keep up with its Japanese clients 
`` If we do n't do something ... we wo n't be able to catch up with demand 
Last year , Dentsu 's foreign business accounted for less than 10 % of total billings 
So far , it appears cautious about taking the big step . 
For example , the spokesman says Dentsu has been approached by banks and securities companies a number of times to invest in the troubled British marketing group Saatchi & Saatchi PLC . 
Though Dentsu says it has no concrete acquisition plans or deadlines , it is laying the groundwork for international growth 
For the year ended March 31 , Dentsu sales rose 19 % to $ 8.9 billion from $ 7.5 billion 
Dentsu 's billings last year were larger than those of Young & Rubicam , the world 's second-largest ad agency , according to a survey by the publication Advertising Age . 
On its own , Dentsu 's muscle in Japan may count for little in major foreign markets 
But success overseas in unfamiliar markets could be trickier than for other industries such as manufacturers . 
Thus , an acquisition may prove the necessary course . 
But Japanese agencies are cautious about expanding abroad 
Although acquiring a foreign company would expand Japanese advertising agencies ' business to foreign clients , many clients would also be Japanese companies expanding overseas 
Although acquiring a foreign company would expand Japanese advertising agencies ' business to foreign clients 
Although acquiring a foreign company would expand Japanese advertising agencies ' business to foreign clients , many clients would also be Japanese companies expanding overseas , says the Dentsu spokesman . 
The preferred shares will carry a floating annual dividend equal to 72 % of the 30-day bankers ' acceptance rate until Dec. 31 , 1994 . 
Mr. Vaux said that if no agreement is reached , other buyers will be sought by bid or auction 
That introduction comes 
That introduction comes only two weeks after Compaq Computer Corp. , believing it had a lead of three to six months on competitors , introduced the first U.S. notebook computer with such features . 
While Compaq sells its machines to businesses through computer retailers , Texas Instruments will be selling most of its machines to the industrial market and to value-added resellers and original-equipment manufacturers 
Texas Instruments Inc. , once a pioneer in portable computer technology , today will make a bid to reassert itself in that business by unveiling three small personal computers . 
Although the Dallas-based computer giant introduced the first portable data terminal in 1971 -- a 38-pound monster -- and the world 's first microprocessor-based portable in 1976 , the only portable machines it has introduced since the first part of the decade have been `` dumb '' terminals with limited on-board processing ability 
Now that is about to change 
The laptops are not revolutionary 
The laptops are not revolutionary and , indeed , are tardy in a market first opened by GRiD Systems Corp. , now a unit of Tandy Corp. , almost two years ago . 
Its keyboard , according to industry consultants , is better than Compaq 's 
It does n't have an internal floppy disk drive 
Shearson 's application is the first 
Sales increased a more modest 4.8 % in the South and 4.4 % in the Midwest . 
But sales in the oil-patch state of Texas surged 12.9 % 
In a new report , the International Council of Shopping Centers said sales of general merchandise in the West for the first seven months of 1989 rose 6.6 % above year-earlier levels . Sales increased a more modest 4.8 % in the South and 4.4 % in the Midwest . But sales in the oil-patch state of Texas surged 12.9 % and sales in South Carolina jumped 10.6 % in the period , the New York trade group said . 
The Northern California earthquake and Hurricane Hugo are likely to temporarily damp sales growth in the West and South Carolina . 
The Christmas quarter is important to retailers 
In 1987 , the West had the slowest sales growth 
Mr. Lagnado said that although retailers probably wo n't ever recover sales lost because of the California quake and Hurricane Hugo , they could see some benefits later on 
Mr. Lagnado said that although retailers probably wo n't ever recover sales lost because of the California quake and Hurricane Hugo 
Stores such as Sears that sell big-ticket durable goods might actually get a boost 
When the plant was destroyed , `` I think everyone got concerned that the same thing would happen at our plant 
Newport officials did n't respond Friday to requests to discuss the changes at the company 
MEDICINE SHOPPE INTERNATIONAL Inc. declared a 3-for-2 stock split , and substantially boosted the dividend payout . 
NBI said that it has the funds to pay the dividend 
Under terms of the stock , the Yukon ESOP can demand that the stock be redeemed for $ 4,090,000 on Nov. 30 
NBI , a maker of word-processing systems , said it ca n't predict if any of the preferred stock will be converted . 
Insurers may see claims resulting from the San Francisco earthquake totaling nearly $ 1 billion -- far less than the claims they face from Hurricane Hugo 
That 's 
The estimated earthquake losses are low compared with the $ 4 billion in claims that insurers face from Hurricane Hugo , which ripped through the Caribbean and the Carolinas last month . 
Insurers buy this insurance protection for themselves by giving up a portion of the premiums they collect on a policy to another firm -- a reinsurance company 
After Hugo hit , many insurers exhausted their reinsurance coverage 
After the earthquake two weeks ago , brokers say companies scrambled to replace reinsurance coverages again 
James Snedeker , senior vice president of Gill & Roeser Inc. , a New York-based reinsurance broker , says insurers who took big losses this fall and had purchased little reinsurance in recent years will be asked to pay some pretty hefty rates 
James Snedeker , senior vice president of Gill & Roeser Inc. , a New York-based reinsurance broker , says insurers who took big losses this fall and had purchased little reinsurance in recent years will be asked to pay some pretty hefty rates if they want to buy reinsurance for 1990 . 
Insurers typically retain a small percentage of the risks they underwrite and pass on the rest of the losses . 
A few years ago , State Farm , the nation 's largest home insurer , stopped buying reinsurance 
A few years ago , State Farm , the nation 's largest home insurer , stopped buying reinsurance because no one carrier could provide all the coverage that it needed 
Since few insurers have announced what amount of losses they expect to see from the earthquake , it 's impossible to get a clear picture of the quake 's impact on fourth-quarter earnings 
Transamerica expects an after-tax charge of less than $ 3 million against fourth-quarter net ; Hartford Insurance Group , a unit of ITT Corp. , expects a $ 15 million or 10 cents after-tax charge 
Transamerica expects an after-tax charge of less than $ 3 million against fourth-quarter net ; Hartford Insurance Group , a unit of ITT Corp. , expects a $ 15 million or 10 cents after-tax charge ; and Fireman 's Fund Corp. expects a charge of no more than $ 50 million before taxes 
At the same time , shareholders approved the adoption of a rights plan and a super-majority voting approval requirement . 
The rights plan would be triggered 
Rally 's , a Louisville , Ky. , fast-food chain , alleges that the three investors , who are directors of the company , broke securities laws 
In the Securities and Exchange Commission filings , the group has said it may seek control of Rally 's . 
Rally 's Inc. said it filed suit in U.S. District Court in Delaware against a group led by Burt Sugarman , seeking to block the investors from buying more shares . 
Specific terms are subject to review and a final agreement with debt holders , the company said . 
But the proposed transaction calls for an exchange of the debt for new debentures of lower face value and reduced cash interest . 
Company officials said Leaseway fulfilled payment requirements of its debt obligations since the leveraged buy-out 
Lawmakers have n't publicly raised the possibility of renewing military aid to the Contras 
Lawmakers have n't publicly raised the possibility of renewing military aid to the Contras , and President Bush parried the question at a news conference here Saturday , saying only that `` if there 's an all-out military offensive , that 's going to change the equation 180 degrees 
Lawmakers have n't publicly raised the possibility of renewing military aid to the Contras , and President Bush parried the question at a news conference here Saturday , saying only that `` if there 's an all-out military offensive , that 's going to change the equation 180 degrees . '' 
But Mr. Ortega 's threat over the weekend to end a 19-month cease-fire with the rebels seeking to topple him , effectively elevated the Contras as a policy priority 
Saturday , he amended his remarks to say that he would continue to abide by the cease-fire 
Not only did Mr. Ortega 's comments come in the midst of what was intended as a showcase for the region , it came 
Outside observers are gathering in Nicaragua to monitor the registration and treatment of opposition candidates . 
While few lawmakers anticipated that the humanitarian aid would be cut off next month , Mr. Ortega 's threat practically guarantees that the humanitarian aid will be continued 
Senate Minority Leader Robert Dole -LRB- R. , Kan . -RRB- said yesterday on `` Meet the Press '' : `` I would hope after his -LCB- Mr. Ortega 's -RCB- act yesterday or the day before , we 'd have unanimous support for quick action on remaining humanitarian aid . '' 
While renewing military aid had been considered out of the question , rejected by Congress and de-emphasized by the Bush administration , Mr. Ortega 's statement provides Contra supporters with the opportunity to press the administration on the issue 
`` The administration should now state that if the -LCB- February -RCB- election is voided by the Sandinistas ... they should call for military aid 
Sen. Mitchell said that congressional Democrats intend to honor the March agreement to give non-lethal support to the Contras through the February elections 
Mr. Ortega 's threat to breach the cease-fire comes 
Mr. Baker 's assistant for inter-American affairs , Bernard Aronson , while maintaining that the Sandinistas had also broken the cease-fire , acknowledged : `` It 's never very clear who starts what 
Mr. Ortega 's threat to breach the cease-fire comes as U.S. officials were acknowledging that the Contras have at times violated it themselves . 
He added that the U.S. has cut off aid to some rebel units 
In addition to undermining arguments in favor of ending Contra aid 
Administration officials traveling with President Bush in Costa Rica interpreted Mr. Ortega 's wavering as a sign that he is n't responding to the military attacks 
Although Petrie Stores has considered seeking to acquire the remaining equity of Deb Stores , it has no current intention to pursue such a possibility 
Increasing personal spending and capital investment are fueling growth , the company said . 
Pretax profit is expected to increase 18 % to 22 billion yen 
He said Gulf Canada will likely report an extraordinary gain from the sale in the fourth quarter 
In the period just ended , computers accounted for 44 % of total sales 
The tender offer will be followed by the sale of all of Erbamont 's assets , subject to all of its liabilities , to Montedison . 
The companies said the transaction is being structured this way 
A unit of DPC Acquisition Partners launched a $ 10-a-share tender offer for the shares outstanding of Dataproducts Corp. , and said it would seek to liquidate the computer-printer maker `` as soon as possible 
Earlier this year , DPC Acquisition made a $ 15-a-share offer for Dataproducts , which the Dataproducts board said it rejected 
Sales were higher in all of the company 's business categories , with the biggest growth coming in sales of foodstuffs such as margarine , coffee and frozen food , which rose 6.3 % . 
If the exchange falters in these moves , they say , it might once again fall behind its chief New York competitor , the Commodity Exchange 
On Friday , the Merc 's board announced that it had approved Sabine Pipe Line Co. 's Henry Hub in Erath , La. , as the delivery site for its long-awaited natural gas futures contract . 
It also said that it would start trading the contract 
Mr. Thompson first came to the exchange in 1981 and has been executive vice president since March 1988 . 
Only three weeks earlier , the Merc had turned to one of its own executives , 40-year-old R. Patrick Thompson , to replace Rosemary T. McFadden as president . 
Mr. Staloff , 44 , was a senior officer of the Philadelphia Stock Exchange and is considered a specialist in new financial products . 
`` Our members are eager to begin trading this contract 
Federal authorities in New York started investigating exchanges in May 
It levied the smallest number of suspensions of traders and fines of the four largest commodity exchanges studied over the past five years . 
He says that even if the natural gas contract boosts volume at the exchange strongly , the 1990 business plan calls for having adequate compliance people to ensure that exchange rules are being followed 
One of those areas is the development of a hand-held electronic device that would permit floor traders to enter trades 
The GAO has recommended the creation of a system to record trade data 
The Merc is now cooperating with the Comex in developing such a device to provide such an audit trail . 
In January , the New York Merc signed a letter of intent with the Chicago Merc as a preliminary step to joining their electronic system called Globex . 
But in May , the Chicago Merc said it was looking into creating a common system with the Chicago Board of Trade 
`` I think the market could pop up to the $ 1.22 to $ 1.25 level without too much difficulty , '' he said . 
But he said it wo n't climb further 
He noted that the equity markets will set the tone for the industrial metals this week 
He added that talk of strike settlements at producing mines has been fully discounted . 
He said last week 's activity in gold could portend a move to $ 390 an ounce for the December contract . 
He also said traders should keep an eye on the stock market 
He also said traders should keep an eye on the stock market , because `` if the stock market rallies , that could spell trouble for the precious metals 
`` I expect to see some selling 
In recent weeks , warm and dry weather has sped the Midwest harvest 
If the weather allowed farmers to work in their fields over the weekend , many Midwest grain elevators will probably sell futures contracts today at the Chicago Board of Trade 
If the weather allowed farmers to work in their fields over the weekend , many Midwest grain elevators will probably sell futures contracts today at the Chicago Board of Trade in order to hedge their weekend purchases from farmers . 
There may be some activity in soybean prices this week 
Investors usually do n't want to take physical delivery of a contract 
Investors usually do n't want to take physical delivery of a contract , preferring instead to profit from its price swings 
Investors usually do n't want to take physical delivery of a contract , preferring instead to profit from its price swings and then end any obligation to take delivery or make delivery 
As the good times rolled they more than doubled their prices for pulp , a raw material used in all sorts of paper , to $ 830 a metric ton this past spring from $ 380 a ton at the start of 1986 
As the good times rolled they more than doubled their prices for pulp , a raw material used in all sorts of paper , to $ 830 a metric ton this past spring from $ 380 a ton at the start of 1986 . 
But now the companies are getting into trouble 
But now the companies are getting into trouble because they undertook a record expansion program 
Robert Schneider of Duff & Phelps sees paper-company stock prices falling 10 % to 15 % in 1990 , perhaps 25 % 
Paper companies concede that business has been off recently . 
Last week Mr. Adler lowered his rating from hold to `` avoid '' on Boise Cascade , Champion International , Great Northern Nekoosa , International Paper , Louisiana Pacific and Weyerhaeuser . 
International Paper emphasizes that it is better positioned than most companies for the coming overcapacity 
A Boise-Cascade spokesman referred to a speech by Chairman John Fery , in which he said that markets generally are stable 
Gaylord Container said analysts are skeptical of it 
Champion International said , `` We 've gotten our costs down 
Because the stock prices of some paper companies already reflect an expected profit slump , PaineWebber 's Mr. Ross says he thinks that next year the share prices of some companies may fall at most only 5 % to 10 % 
A company such as Federal Paper Board may be overly discounted and looks `` tempting '' to him 
Mr. Palmero recommends Temple-Inland , explaining that it is `` virtually the sole major paper company not undergoing a major capacity expansion 
A Temple-Inland spokesman said the company expects record earnings in 1989 
Shoney 's Inc. said it will report a write-off of $ 2.5 million , or seven cents a share , for its fourth quarter ended yesterday . 
The executive said that the anticipated earnings increase is fairly modest 
Last year , Mr. Kume said , Nissan exported slightly over one million vehicles , and produced 570,000 cars and trucks at its factories in North America , Europe and Australia . 
The company said it has agreed to sell the extrusion division for $ 15 million to R.D. Werner Co. , a closely held firm based in Greenville , Pa . 
The sale of the extrusion division is subject to audit adjustments for working capital changes through the closing . 
The municipal bond market is bracing for tough times through the end of the year 
The municipal bond market is bracing for tough times through the end of the year as it struggles to absorb an oversupply of bonds 
Commercial banks and property\/casualty insurers , which together own about 36 % of all municipal bonds , have been dumping their securities for weeks . `` Most dealers can not continue to absorb this supply . '' 
Individuals eager for tax-free income drove up bond prices , making state and local government debt one of the best-performing types of fixed-income investments during the period . 
But while analysts say that municipal bonds still offer good value , you would n't know it by the way institutional investors are rushing to dump their holdings 
There is speculation that property\/casualty firms will sell even more munis 
There is speculation that property\/casualty firms will sell even more munis as they scramble to raise cash to pay claims related to Hurricane Hugo and the Northern California earthquake . 
The recent natural disasters , and the need of many other cities to rebuild crumbling infrastructure , suggests that supply of new issues will continue to rise sharply 
Some of the recent selling could actually be considered a positive sign . 
Because municipal bonds yields have risen at a time when interest rates generally have fallen , some portfolio managers are assuming that bonds bought now will appreciate in value as the municipal bond market rebounds 
Because municipal bonds yields have risen at a time when interest rates generally have fallen , some portfolio managers are assuming that bonds bought now will appreciate in value 
Ms. Avedisian believes that the mutual funds are selling muni bonds that have a negative convexity -- those that have appreciated in price slowly relative to the decline in interest rates . 
But traders said the market 's tone could pick up this week 
The city 's economy is growing weaker 
The city 's economy is growing weaker and expenditures are rising 
They 'd like to see some other names in their portfolios , '' said Michael S. Appelbaum , first vice president at Shearson Lehman Hutton . `` The city has issued so much supply recently that some people are getting a little concerned . 
Credit market analysts expected the Treasury to cancel today 's three-month and six-month sale and to sell $ 17 billion of cash management bills . 
Instead , the Treasury announced it would sell $ 2 billion of 51-day cash management bills today and said that the weekly sale of $ 15.6 billion of three-month and six-month bills will take place today , as usual 
Treasury bonds fell sharply on confusion about this week 's Treasury debt auction and rumors that a major Japanese investor was unloading large amounts of long-term bonds . 
Many of the RJR securities , which had been trading near their 52-week lows earlier in the session , bounced back after the company 's announcement that it agreed to sell its Baby Ruth , Butterfinger and Pearson candy businesses to Nestle Foods , a unit of the Swiss-based food concern . 
RJR 's subordinated discount debentures of 2001 , which traded as low as 45 Friday , finished the day at 46 7\/8 . 
RJR Holdings Capital Corp. 's 14.7 % convertible pay-in-kind securities maturing in 2009 closed 1\/2 higher at 86 1\/2 
The premium the elderly pay for coverage of doctor 's bills under Part B of the Medicare health insurance plan will rise to $ 29 a month in 1990 from $ 27.90 , the Department of Health and Human Services said . 
In addition , a second Part B premium to cover the cost of the new program of insurance against catastrophic illness will rise to $ 4.90 a month from $ 4 
In addition , a second Part B premium to cover the cost of the new program of insurance against catastrophic illness will rise to $ 4.90 a month from $ 4 , if Congress does n't change the program . 
Under a less-sweeping Senate plan , the catastrophic-care monthly premium would continue , rising to $ 4.90 next year 
If the House prevails in its efforts to kill the catastrophic-care plan , the monthly Part B premium will be $ 29 next year 
If the Senate plan prevails , the premium will be $ 33.90 , with the additional $ 4.90 going to pay for expanded hospital coverage under Part A of Medicare 
Jim Pattison Industries , a holding company with annual sales of about C$ 1.9 billion , largely from car dealerships and grocery stores , did n't elaborate on the statement 
Jim Pattison Industries Ltd. , one of a group of closely held companies owned by entrepreneur James Pattison , said it `` intends to seek control '' of 30%-owned Innopac Inc. , a Toronto packaging concern . 
PROGRAM TRADING is being curbed by more securities firms 
Bowing to criticism , Bear Stearns , Morgan Stanley and Oppenheimer joined PaineWebber in suspending stock-index arbitrage trading for their own accounts . 
The slowdown raises questions about the economy 's strength 
Personal spending rose 0.2 % in September , the smallest gain in a year . 
Factory owners are buying new machinery at a healthy rate this fall , machine-tool makers say . 
LIN Broadcasting and BellSouth sweetened their plan to merge cellular phone operations , offering LIN holders a special $ 42-a-share payout . 
Unisys posted a $ 648.2 million loss for the third quarter 
Unisys posted a $ 648.2 million loss for the third quarter as it moved quickly to take write-offs for various problems and prepare for a turnaround . 
Sansui Electric agreed to sell a 51 % stake to Polly Peck of Britain for $ 110 million . 
Nashua strengthened its poison-pill plan 
Thomas Jefferson sold Congress on the idea of the decimal system for currency 
Thomas Jefferson sold Congress on the idea of the decimal system for currency , thus saving Americans the headaches of pounds , shillings and pence . 
But he struck out with the decimal system of metric weights and measures the French had invented . 
When Congress finally passed the Metric Conversion Act in 1975 , industry was far ahead 
Because the law made compliance voluntary , it inspired little more than jokes 
Today , though the public is barely aware , much of U.S. industry , particularly companies manufacturing or selling overseas , have made metrics routine 
Today , though the public is barely aware , much of U.S. industry , particularly companies manufacturing or selling overseas , have made metrics routine . 
General Motors , for example , uses metric terms for its automobile bodies and power trains . 
The Pentagon has led the charge 
The Pentagon has led the charge , particularly as military alliances spread world-wide . 
Still , like the auto makers , when dealing with Mr. Everyman the Pentagon sticks to the tried and true 
Whittle said its field staff signed up the 500 schools in 238 school districts after only eight weeks 
Subscribing schools get the 12-minute daily Channel One news program , whose four 30-second TV ads during each show have drawn protests from educators . 
The Educational Network , as Mr. Whittle has named the three programs , has been offered to 1,290 school districts 
John Bruner , associate director of communications for Cincinnati Public Schools , said Channel One was rejected 
John Bruner , associate director of communications for Cincinnati Public Schools , said Channel One was rejected because students watching the program did n't fare particularly better on a 28-question current events quiz than a control school without the program 
`` The number of correct responses was 45 % on the test 
`` The pilot program was received well -LRB- by teachers and students -RRB- 
We even invited the public to stop by and see the program 
Hewlett-Packard , a Palo Alto , Calif. , computer company , said it acquired the stock `` to develop and maintain a strategic partnership in which each company remains independent 
According to the filing , Hewlett-Packard acquired 730,070 common shares from Octel as a result of an Aug. 10 , 1988 , stock purchase agreement . 
According to the filing , Hewlett-Packard acquired 730,070 common shares from Octel as a result of an Aug. 10 , 1988 , stock purchase agreement . That accord also called for Hewlett-Packard to buy 730,070 Octel shares in the open market within 18 months . 
Following is a weekly listing of unadited net asset values of publicly traded investment fund shares , reported by the companies as of Friday 's close . 
Since peaking at 2791.41 on Oct. 9 , the Dow Jones Industrial Average has lost 194.69 points , or 7 % , closing Friday at 2596.72 , down 17.01 
The number of issues falling on the New York Stock Exchange each day is eclipsing the number of gainers . 
Twice in two weeks the unraveling of the on-again , off-again UAL buy-out slammed the stock market . 
Opinions vary about how important the UAL deal was to the market 's health 
Opinions vary about how important the UAL deal was to the market 's health , but analysts generally agree that the market gyrations created 
`` If this had happened a few months ago when the atmosphere was still very positive it would n't have been greeted with anything like the impact it has had over the past two weeks 
Sure , price action is volatile 
Sure , price action is volatile and that 's scary 
The only way you can make it a big deal is to draw linkages that just do n't make sense . '' 
He suggests , for example , that investors may have assumed that just because UAL could n't get financing , no leveraged buy-outs can get financing 
Carried even further , some investors assumed that since leveraged buy-outs are the only thing propping up stock prices , the market would collapse if no more LBOs could be done 
Carried even further , some investors assumed that since leveraged buy-outs are the only thing propping up stock prices , the market would collapse 
`` There may not be as many 
`` There may not be as many and the buyers may not get away with some of the things they 've done in the past 
He forecasts that the emphasis in mergers and acquisitions may soon return to what he calls `` strategic deals , in which somebody is taking over a company not to milk the cash flow 
He forecasts that the emphasis in mergers and acquisitions may soon return to what he calls `` strategic deals , in which somebody is taking over a company 
`` There will still be deals , '' argues Mr. Connolly . 
And even without deals , Mr. Connolly figures the market would remain healthy . 
He notes , for instance , that there has n't been a merger or acquisition among the 30 stocks in the Dow Jones Industrial Average since 1986 
`` Those stocks are up 
`` Those stocks are up because their earnings are up 
For the long-term investor who picks stocks carefully , the price volatility can provide welcome buying opportunities 
Even the volatility created by stock index arbitrage and other computer-driven trading strategies is n't entirely bad , in Mr. Connolly 's view . 
`` The balloon had been blown up so big that when somebody came along with a pin -- in this case the UAL deal -- we got a little pop 
`` We 've run into a market that was beginning to run out of steam and get frothy , '' he says . `` The balloon had been blown up so big that when somebody came along with a pin -- in this case the UAL deal -- we got a little pop . '' 
`` Just because we 've got some realism back in the market does n't mean it 's going lower from here 
At current levels of economic activity and earnings , stocks are fairly valued , she says . 
But any chance for prices to surge above fair value lies in the speculation that accompanies a vigorous merger and buy-out business 
`` Stocks are n't cheap anymore , there have been some judicial and legislative changes in the merger area 
`` I 'm not saying they 've stopped altogether 
`` I 'm not saying they 've stopped altogether , but future deals are going to be structured differently 
But any chance for prices to surge above fair value lies in the speculation that accompanies a vigorous merger and buy-out business , and UAL has obviously put a damper on that . 
`` M&A is getting all the headlines right now 
Third-quarter earnings have been generally disappointing 
`` There are a lot more downward than upward revisions 
If the economy slips into a recession 
Stock prices tumbled for a third consecutive day 
Oil stocks escaped the brunt of Friday 's selling 
Both companies declined to comment on the rumors 
Elsewhere in the oil sector , Exxon rallied 7\/8 to 45 3\/4 ; Amoco rose 1\/8 to 47 ; Texaco was unchanged at 51 3\/4 
Hecla Mining rose 5\/8 to 14 ; Battle Mountain Gold climbed 3\/4 to 16 3\/4 ; Homestake Mining rose 1 1\/8 to 16 7\/8 ; Lac Minerals added 5\/8 to 11 ; Placer Dome went up 7\/8 to 16 3\/4 
The precious metals sector outgained other Dow Jones industry groups by a wide margin for the second consecutive session . 
Echo Bay Mines rose 5\/8 to 15 7\/8 ; Pegasus Gold advanced 1 1\/2 to 12 
Unisys dropped 3\/4 to 16 1\/4 
Unisys dropped 3\/4 to 16 1\/4 after posting a third-quarter loss of $ 4.25 a share , including restructuring charges 
Digital Equipment tacked on 1 1\/8 to 89 1\/8 
Dividend-related trading swelled volume in Merrill Lynch , which closed unchanged at 28 3\/8 
The company 's decision was made 
For several months , officials at the Federal Aviation Administration and the National Transportation Safety Board have suspected that a metallurgical flaw in the disk led to a crack that ultimately caused the tail engine to break apart in flight . 
He said there was n't any way to detect the flaw at that time 
A spokesman for GE said that the company has been working with the FAA all along on this issue and `` will comply fully with the required inspections . '' 
A spokesman for GE said that the company has been working with the FAA all along on this issue and `` will comply fully with the required inspections . '' 
`` If you can use data to reconstruct what happened in the past , you have much more confidence in predictions for the future 
These measurements can indicate temperature changes 
These measurements can indicate temperature changes , researchers said , because the rates of evaporation of these oxygen atoms differ 
Some climate models project that interior regions of Asia would be among the first to heat up in a global warming 
Researchers at Ohio State University and Lanzhou Institute of Glaciology and Geocryology in China have analyzed samples of glacial ice in Tibet and say temperatures there have been significantly higher on average over the past half-century than in any similar period in the past 10,000 years . 
According to greenhouse theories , increased carbon dioxide emissions , largely caused by burning of fossil fuels , will cause the Earth to warm up 
Skeptics say that if that 's the case , temperatures should have risen fairly uniformly over the past century , reflecting the increase in carbon dioxide 
Skeptics say that if that 's the case , temperatures should have risen fairly uniformly over the past century , reflecting the increase in carbon dioxide . 
Instead , the Dunde ice-core record shows increasing temperatures from 1900 through the early 1950s , decreasing temperatures from the late 1950s through the mid-1970s 
`` Climate varies drastically due to natural causes , '' said Mr. Thompson . 
Telxon Corp. said its vice president for manufacturing resigned 
Congress sent to President Bush an $ 8.5 billion military construction bill that cuts spending for new installations by 16 % 
The fiscal 1990 measure builds on a pattern set earlier this year by House and Senate defense authorizing committees 
The fiscal 1990 measure builds on a pattern set earlier this year by House and Senate defense authorizing committees , and -- at a time of retrenchment for the military and concern about the U.S. 's standing in the world economy -- overseas spending is most vulnerable . 
Total Pentagon requests for installations in West Germany , Japan , South Korea , the United Kingdom and the Philippines , for example , are cut by almost two-thirds 
The result is that instead of the Pentagon 's proposed split of 60-40 between domestic and foreign bases , the reduced funding is distributed by a ratio of approximately 70-30 . 
Though spending for Iowa and Oregon was far less , their increases above Pentagon requests -- 640 % and 430 % , respectively -- were much greater because of the influence of Republicans at critical junctures 
By an 84-6 margin , the Senate approved the bulk of the spending Friday 
By an 84-6 margin , the Senate approved the bulk of the spending Friday 
The House Democratic leadership could seek to waive these restrictions 
Appropriations committees have used an assortment of devices to disguise as much as $ 1 billion in spending 
Appropriations committees have used an assortment of devices to disguise as much as $ 1 billion in spending , and as critics have awakened to these devices , the bill can seem like a wounded caribou trying to make it past ice and wolves to reach safer winter grazing 
Much of the excess spending will be pushed into fiscal 1991 , and in some cases is temporarily parked in slow-spending accounts in anticipation of being transferred to faster-spending areas 
Much of the excess spending will be pushed into fiscal 1991 , and in some cases is temporarily parked in slow-spending accounts in anticipation of being transferred to faster-spending areas after the budget scorekeeping is completed . 
Part of the increase would provide $ 90 million toward ensuring construction of a costly solid rocket-motor facility in Mr. Whitten 's Mississippi . 
House Speaker Thomas Foley won $ 510,000 for a project in his district in Washington state 
When this plan met resistance , it was agreed instead to take money from HUD to subsidize needed improvements in two settling ponds for the mills 
The powerful Democrat had first wanted to add language relaxing environmental restrictions on two mills on the Hamakua coast that are threatening to close . 
Although we were white , the same economic factors affected us as affects the black people Mr. Farney writes about 
Though I 've been blessed with academic degrees and some success in the materialistic world , I 've never forgotten or lost contact with those memories of the 1930s 
Following World War II , when one family with mechanized equipment could farm crops formerly requiring 20 families , the surplus people were dumped into the mainstream of society with no Social Security , no skills in the workplace , no hope for their future except welfare . 
Following World War II , when one family with mechanized equipment could farm crops formerly requiring 20 families , the surplus people were dumped into the mainstream of society with no Social Security , no skills in the workplace , no hope for their future except welfare . And today , many of their children , grandchildren and great-grandchildren remain on welfare . 
In the meantime , the landowners continue receiving generous subsidies that began during New Deal days . 
Farmers in the Midwest and other areas have suffered 
Farmers in the Midwest and other areas have suffered , but those along the Mississippi continue to prosper with holdings that were built with the sweat of men and women living in economic slavery . 
And when they were no longer needed , they were turned loose unprepared to build lives of their own 
Because the cycle of poverty along the lower Mississippi goes back so many generations , breaking this cycle will be next to impossible 
Sadly , the cycle appears not as waves but as a downward spiral . 
Because we refuse to face the tough answers , the questions continue as fodder for the commissions and committees , for the media and politicians 
Does the Delta deserve government help in attracting industry 
Should we focus on the region 's infant-mortality rate 
The next time expansion plans are mentioned at the old company 
For years , we tried to ignore the problem of poverty 
For years , we tried to ignore the problem of poverty , and now that it has gotten out of hand it 's a new crusade for the media and our Democratic Congress 
Nobody should have to live in such poor conditions as in `` Sugar Ditch 
Nobody should have to live in such poor conditions as in `` Sugar Ditch , '' but when you travel to Washington , Boston , Chicago or New York , the same problems exist 
Many middle-class people would love free food , Medicaid insurance , utilities and rent . 
Management advised employees Friday that it was going to reduce employment in production operations of the group by 8 % , or 400 people . 
A few years ago , Mobil restructured the entire company during an industrywide shakeout . 
But since then U.S. oil production has declined 
During the coming months , layers of management will be peeled away 
Field offices at New Orleans ; Houston ; Denver ; Midland , Tex. ; Bakersfield , Calif. ; Oklahoma City ; and Liberal , Kan. , will be maintained . 
But the staffs at some of those locations will be slashed 
But the staffs at some of those locations will be slashed while at others the work force will be increased . 
For instance , employment in Denver will be reduced to 105 from 430 . 
Now , the nationwide average yield on a six-month CD is just under 8 % 
With $ 150 billion of CDs maturing this month , a lot of people have been scouring the financial landscape for just such an investment . 
Yields on most fixed-income securities are lower than several months ago . 
`` If you 're looking for a significantly higher yield with the same level of risk as a CD , you 're not going to find it 
`` If you 're looking for a significantly higher yield with the same level of risk as a CD , you 're not going to find it , '' says Washington financial planner Dennis M. Gurtz . 
Short-term municipal bonds , bond funds and tax-deferred annuities are some of the choices they mention -- and not just as a way to get a higher return . 
That 's 
These securities get top credit ratings 
These securities get top credit ratings because the issuers have put aside U.S. bonds that will be sold to pay off holders 
Buyers can look forward to double-digit annual returns 
Buyers can look forward to double-digit annual returns if they are right . 
But they will have disappointing returns or even losses 
Buyers can look forward to double-digit annual returns if they are right . 
The price movements get bigger 
Bond resale prices , and thus fund share prices , move in the opposite direction from rates . The price movements get bigger as the maturity of the securities lengthens . 
The Short Term Bond Fund , with an average maturity of 2 1\/2 years , would deliver a total return for one year of about 10.6 % if rates drop one percentage point and a one-year return of about 6.6 % if rates rise by the same amount 
The Short Term Bond Fund , with an average maturity of 2 1\/2 years , would deliver a total return for one year of about 10.6 % if rates drop one percentage point and a one-year return of about 6.6 % if rates rise by the same amount . 
`` You get equity-like returns '' from bonds 
If interest rates do n't change , bond fund investors ' returns will be about equal to the funds ' current yields 
These insurance company contracts feature some of the same tax benefits and restrictions as non-deductible individual retirement accounts : Investment gains are compounded without tax consequences 
These insurance company contracts feature some of the same tax benefits and restrictions as non-deductible individual retirement accounts : Investment gains are compounded without tax consequences until money is withdrawn 
Some current rates exceed those on CDs . 
Annuities are rarely a good idea at age 35 because of the withdrawal restrictions . 
The conventional wisdom is to go into money funds 
The conventional wisdom is to go into money funds when rates are rising and shift out at times such as the present , when rates seem headed down . 
Still , today 's highest-yielding money funds may beat CDs over the next year 
That 's 
If rates unexpectedly rise , the increasing return on the money fund will partly offset the lower-than-expected return from the bond fund 
While there have been no reports of similar sudden unexplained deaths among diabetics in the U.S. , Dr. Sobel said the FDA plans to examine Dr. Toseland 's evidence and is considering its own study here 
Dr. Toseland , a toxicologist , said he was preparing an article for a British forensic medical journal raising the possibility that the deaths may have occurred 
At the U.S. National Institutes of Health , Dr. Robert E. Silverman , chief of the diabetes program branch , said no evidence of unexpected deaths from hypoglycemia had shown up in a study of 1,500 diabetics that has been under way at NIH for five years . 
The human-based drug starts the blood sugar dropping sooner and drives it down faster , he said . 
Defense intellectuals have complained for years that the Pentagon can not determine priorities 
We 'd do the strategy 
We 'd do the strategy 
This wo n't happen 
As it is , we identify national goals and the threats to these goals , we shape a strategy to counter these threats , we determine the forces needed to execute the strategy 
As it is , we identify national goals and the threats to these goals , we shape a strategy to counter these threats , we determine the forces needed to execute the strategy 
These procedures consume millions of man-hours of labor and produce tons of paper 
The Pentagon 's strategists produce budgets that simply can not be executed 
The Pentagon 's strategists produce budgets that simply can not be executed because they assume a defense strategy depends only on goals and threats . 
These people have different agendas . 
That puts the real strategic decisions in the hands of others : bean counters , budgeteers , and pork-barrelers . These people have different agendas . 
They ought to examine how a range of optimistic to pessimistic budget scenarios would change the defense program . 
They would then develop priorities by identifying the least painful program cuts 
They would then develop priorities by identifying the least painful program cuts as they moved from higher to lower budgets . 
Our five-year plan contains three accounting devices -- negative money , an above guidance management reserve and optimistic inflation estimates -- which understate the spending the Pentagon has committed itself to by almost $ 100 billion . 
Step 2 will answer the question : What happens 
This scenario has been the rough position of the U.S. Senate since 1985 
Scenario 1 , known as the `` Constant Dollar Freeze , '' reimburses the Pentagon for inflation only -- it slopes upward at 4 % per year . This scenario has been the rough position of the U.S. Senate since 1985 , and it reduces the baseline by $ 106 billion between 1990 and 1994 . Scenario 3 , the `` Current Dollar Freeze , '' has been the approximate position of the House of Representatives for about four years . It freezes the budget at its current level , and forces the Pentagon to eat the effects of inflation until 1994 . This reduces the baseline by $ 229 billion . Scenario 2 extends the recent compromises between the House and the Senate ; it splits the difference between Scenarios 1 and 3 , by increasing the budget at 2 % per year . It reduces the baseline by $ 169 billion . 
If , for example , they choose to keep the B-2 Stealth bomber , they would have to sacrifice more and more other programs -- such as carrier battlegroups or army divisions -- as they moved toward lower budget levels 
This exercise would reveal the true cost of a particular program by forcing the strategists to make hard decisions . 
If , for example , they choose to keep the B-2 Stealth bomber , they would have to sacrifice more and more other programs -- such as carrier battlegroups or army divisions 
Some may be tempted to argue that the idea of a strategic review merely resurrects the infamous Zero-Based Budgeting -LRB- ZBB -RRB- concept of the Carter administration . 
But ZBB did not involve the strategic planners in the Joint Chiefs of Staff 
It might be feared that even thinking about lower budgets will hurt national security 
This argument plays well in the atmosphere of gaming and mistrust permeating the Pentagon and Congress 
This argument plays well in the atmosphere of gaming and mistrust permeating the Pentagon and Congress , and unfortunately , there is some truth to it . 
To say that the Pentagon should act irresponsibly 
To say that the Pentagon should act irresponsibly because acting responsibly will provoke Congress into acting irresponsibly leads to the conclusion that the Pentagon should deliberately exaggerate its needs in the national interest 
To say that the Pentagon should act irresponsibly because acting responsibly will provoke Congress into acting irresponsibly leads to the conclusion that the Pentagon should deliberately exaggerate its needs in the national interest ; in other words , that it is justified in committing a crime 
If we want meaningful priorities , we must understand the trade-offs they imply before we make commitments 
If we want meaningful priorities , we must understand the trade-offs they imply 
Although bullish dollar sentiment has fizzled , many currency analysts say a massive sell-off probably wo n't occur in the near future 
While Wall Street 's tough times and lower U.S. interest rates continue to undermine the dollar , weakness in the pound and the yen is expected to offset those factors 
The rise came 
The rise came as traders continued to dump the pound after the sudden resignation Thursday of British Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson . 
But once the pound steadied with help from purchases by the Bank of England and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York , the dollar was dragged down , traders say , by the stock-market slump that left the Dow Jones Industrial Average with a loss of 17.01 points 
While some analysts say the dollar eventually could test support at 1.75 marks and 135 yen , Mr. Scalfaro and others do n't see the currency decisively sliding under support at 1.80 marks and 140 yen soon 
Predictions for limited dollar losses are based largely on the pound 's weak state after Mr. Lawson 's resignation and the yen 's inability to strengthen substantially 
While the pound has attempted to stabilize , currency analysts say it is in critical condition 
Sterling plunged about four cents Thursday and hit the week 's low of $ 1.5765 
He was succeeded by John Major , who Friday expressed a desire for a firm pound and supported the relatively high British interest rates that he said `` are working exactly as intended '' in reducing inflation . 
Although the Bank of England 's tight monetary policy has fueled worries that Britain 's slowing economy is headed for a recession , it is widely believed that Mr. Lawson 's willingness to prop up the pound with interest-rate increases helped stem pound selling in recent weeks 
If there are any signs that Mr. Major will be less inclined to use interest-rate boosts to rescue the pound from another plunge , that currency is expected to fall sharply 
`` There 's very little upside to sterling 
`` There 's very little upside to sterling , '' Mr. Roberts says , but he adds that near-term losses may be small 
`` There 's very little upside to sterling , '' Mr. Roberts says , but he adds that near-term losses may be small because the selling wave that followed Mr. Major 's appointment apparently has run its course . 
But some other analysts have a stormier forecast for the pound 
But some other analysts have a stormier forecast for the pound , particularly because Britain 's inflation is hovering at a relatively lofty annual rate of about 7.6 % 
If the pound falls closer to 2.80 marks , the Bank of England may raise Britain 's base lending rate by one percentage point to 16 % 
If the pound falls closer to 2.80 marks , the Bank of England may raise Britain 's base lending rate by one percentage point to 16 % , says Mr. Rendell . 
The dollar has a `` natural base of support '' around 140 yen 
We know firsthand the discrimination addressed by the act : to be told there 's no place for your child in school ; to spend lonely hours at home 
We know firsthand the discrimination addressed by the act : to be told there 's no place for your child in school ; to spend lonely hours at home because there is no transportation for someone in a wheelchair ; to be denied employment 
A group of investors led by Giant Group Ltd. and its chairman , Burt Sugarman , said it filed with federal antitrust regulators for clearance to buy more than 50 % of the stock of Rally 's Inc. , a fast-food company based in Louisville , Ky . 
The percent difference compares actual profit with the 30-day estimate where at least three analysts have issues forecasts in the past 30 days . 
DPC Acquisition Partners , a hostile suitor for Dataproducts Corp. , filed a petition in federal district court in Los Angeles seeking to have its standstill agreement with the computer printer maker declared void 
DPC made a $ 15-a-share bid for the company in May 
Dataproducts had sought a buyer for several months 
Dataproducts had sought a buyer for several months , but it is now in the midst of a restructuring plan 
The contract was first proposed more than two years ago 
The contract was first proposed more than two years ago 
The contract was first proposed more than two years ago , but shortly afterward , the colony 's markets were hit hard by the October 1987 global stock crash . 
The Securities and Futures Commission , a government watchdog set up after the 1987 crash to try to restore confidence and order to Hong Kong 's markets , had been expected to give the contract conditional approval last week . 
But regulators this week said futures-exchange officials still have a way to go 
The exchange had forecast that the contract would begin trading by December . 
Analysts and financial officials in the British colony consider the new contract essential to the revival of the Hong Kong Futures Exchange , which has never fully recovered from the October 1987 crash . 
If the contract is as successful as some expect , it may do much to restore confidence in futures trading in Hong Kong 
Two years ago , the futures exchange was the envy of other would-be futures centers . 
But in the week following the 1987 stock crash , the exchange verged on collapse 
While Asian markets struggled to cope with the uncertainty caused by the Oct. 13 plunge in New York stock prices , futures trading in Hong Kong was relatively heavy and went smoothly 
While Asian markets struggled to cope with the uncertainty caused by the Oct. 13 plunge in New York stock prices , futures trading in Hong Kong was relatively heavy and went smoothly . 
`` If those two banks are there 
Even though the currency is pegged to the U.S. dollar , with a fixed exchange rate of HK$ 7.8 to the American currency , the U.S. and Hong Kong economies do n't always move in lock step 
Just a few months ago , the three-month Eurodollar rate was around 9.5 % 
The wounds from the 1987 crash have n't yet healed 
Despite the initial support expected , trading in the contract is likely to start slowly . 
And Mr. Gilmore cautions that there may be limits on how much the contract can grow 
He says the contract will be considered a success 
And Mr. Gilmore cautions that there may be limits on how much the contract can grow because the Hong Kong dollar is n't a widely traded currency . 
That should help to inspire confidence , Mr. Gilmore says . 
But many bankers remain nervous 
Oji Paper 's sales strength was evident in overall paper products sales , including newsprints , printing and wrapping papers , which rose to 221.61 billion yen in the first half from 200.70 billion yen a year earlier . 
Pretax profit is seen at 45.00 billion yen , down from 47.17 billion yen 
The company did n't provide an explanation for the softer pretax profit performance 
Pretax profit was estimated at 23.0 billion yen , down from 25.51 billion yen 
The company declined to estimate the value of the Norwegian holding . 
Mr. Nowak said he attaches particular importance to the proposed sale 
In 1987 , it sold a 2.5 % stake in the Veslefrikk field to the Swedish national oil company , resulting in a $ 7 million after-tax gain . In 1986 , Unocal sold a 7.5 % stake in the Veslefrikk field to Deutsche Erdolversorgungs G.m.b . H. , a West German oil company , for an undisclosed amount . 
A company spokesman said the Veslefrikk field 's gross reserves were estimated in 1987 at 229 million barrels . 
The offering , Series 1989-89 , backed by Fannie Mae 9 % securities , brings Fannie Mae 's 1989 Remic issuance to $ 33.2 billion and its total Remic volume to $ 45.3 billion 
World Bank -LRB- agency -RRB- -- # 100 million of 10 7\/8 % bonds due Aug. 15 , 1994 , offered at 96.95 to yield 11.71 % , via Baring Brothers & Co . Tap on outstanding # 100 million issue . 
Interest during first year paid semiannually at 7.51 % . 
Also issued were 10 billion yen of bonds due Dec. 5 , 1994 , priced at 101 1\/2 , with coupon paid in Australian dollars , via LTCB International Ltd . Interest during first year paid semiannually at 7.51 % . 
First National Bank of Chicago will act as trustee 
Moscom Corp. said its board approved the repurchase of as many as 300,000 common shares 
I have just returned from France 
In a first step , Dresdner Bank will buy 32.99 % of BIP for 1,015 French francs -LRB- $ 162 -RRB- a share , or 528 million francs -LRB- $ 84.7 million -RRB- . 
In a first step , Dresdner Bank will buy 32.99 % of BIP for 1,015 French francs -LRB- $ 162 -RRB- a share , or 528 million francs -LRB- $ 84.7 million -RRB- . Dresdner Bank said it will also buy all shares tendered by shareholders on the Paris Stock Exchange at the same price from today through Nov. 17 . 
According to the ministry , retail sales at major department stores were up 12 % to 745.7 billion yen 
When the going gets tough , it 's tough to trade stocks in continental Europe 
`` I 'm not saying London covered itself in glory 
On so-called Manic Monday , Oct. 16 , stock prices plunged across Europe 
London had some problems , too . 
In Brussels , which recently spent millions of dollars on a computer-assisted trading system , disgusted traders watched helplessly 
By Wednesday , frustrated Belgian brokers reopened the market by using the time-honored method of quoting stocks with chalk on a blackboard . In Brussels , which recently spent millions of dollars on a computer-assisted trading system , disgusted traders watched helplessly as a software failure before opening on Manic Monday prevented trading for two days . For 48 hours , no one had any idea precisely how much his securities were worth . 
As banks processed six-foot telexes of sell orders , the crush led to Manic Monday 's worst decline : German stocks ended down 13 % 
In France , more than half the top 25 blue-chip stocks -- including such giants as BSN and Elf Aquitaine -- did n't open 
In France , more than half the top 25 blue-chip stocks -- including such giants as BSN and Elf Aquitaine -- did n't open until Wall Street rallied late in the European trading day , traders say . 
On Manic Monday , the volume of German shares traded in London more than tripled to 2.2 million 
On Manic Monday , the volume of German shares traded in London more than tripled to 2.2 million , and the volume of French shares rose 48 % . 
Though the widely traded shares that are quoted in London account for only a small portion of those totals , they still are the most closely watched stocks and are often viewed as a barometer for the local markets generally 
Against this backdrop , one thing that does n't seem likely to result from 1992 is a single European stock market . 
These firms , which often have acquired a local brokerage firm , are calling the shots 
These firms , which often have acquired a local brokerage firm , are calling the shots when it comes to deciding in which market to transact a trade . 
`` I would be much happier 
Already the Germans appear to be acting ; at a special meeting on the day of the decline , directors of the Frankfurt Stock Exchange voted to extend their trading hours 
Says a spokeswoman for the Brussels Bourse : `` Nobody around here will tell you they are happy the system did n't work . 
Investors can be assured now that this kind of problem can never occur again . '' 
`` They all said they invested huge amounts of money . 
But they either did n't buy the right machines 
`` We do n't want Brussels deciding conditions for workers 
Unice -- an acronym for the Union of Industrial and Employers ' Confederations of Europe -- fears that the charter will force EC countries to adopt a single pattern in labor relations . 
France will propose a slightly watered-down version of the charter to be discussed by EC social-affairs ministers on Monday , officials said . 
`` We still have serious differences with the text 
This , he warned , would prevent these countries from bridging the difference with their richer EC brethren . 
European Community employers fear that the EC Commission 's plans for a `` charter of fundamental social rights '' is a danger to industrial competitiveness . The British government also strongly opposes the charter in its current form . 
This would leave Britain free to adopt the charter 
If they finish today , the Sharpshooter can pump tomorrow 
Investment capital is creeping back 
Mideast politics have calmed down 
That is n't the $ 40 that delighted producers a decade ago or the $ 10 that pleased users a year ago . 
A recession or new OPEC blowup could put oil markets right back in the soup . 
Also , the new stirrings are faint 
Drilling activity is still far below eight years ago , there 's no hiring surge 
The same roller-coaster prices that halted U.S. oil exploration and drove many veteran oil men and companies out of the business 
Corporate planners can plan again . 
About a year ago , it ended an on-again , off-again internal production war that had put prices on a roller coaster and pitched oil towns from Houston to Caracas into recession . Saudi Arabia , OPEC 's kingpin , abandoned a policy of flooding the market to punish quota-cheaters . About the same time , the Iran-Iraq war , which was roiling oil markets , ended . 
OPEC Secretary-General Subroto explains : Consumers offer security of markets 
At its November meeting , it will try to revise its quotas to satisfy Persian Gulf members that can produce far more oil than their allotments . 
But `` if they walk out without any effort to resolve their problem , production could increase to 23 million or 24 million barrels a day 
Patrick J . Early , president of Amoco Corp. 's oil-production unit , says that despite recent stability , he plans continued tightening of costs and exploration spending . The view of some others in Big Oil , he maintains , `` is very much -LCB- similar to -RCB- Amoco 's outlook . '' Just this week Mobil Corp. disclosed new cutbacks in its domestic exploration and production operations . 
Out here on the Querecho Plains of New Mexico , however , the mood is more upbeat ; trucks rumble along the dusty roads 
It is more aggressive than most 
It is more aggressive than most , but it is n't the only company with a new attitude 
It is more aggressive than most , but it is n't the only company with a new attitude , as it found 
`` If you know you 've got stability in price , you can do things you would n't do with the volatility of the past few years 
The activity is enough to move some oil-service prices back up a little . 
Most oil companies , when they set exploration and production budgets for this year , forecast revenue of $ 15 for each barrel of crude produced 
Prices have averaged more than $ 2 a barrel higher than that -- not a windfall , but at least a pleasant bonus for them . 
Funds for drilling may inch up more next year 
Although `` it 's still difficult to raise money for a pure wildcat program , '' says William Thomas , a Texas Commerce Bank official in Houston , `` institutions are starting to see there are cycles to these things , and this one is beginning to turn 
Although `` it 's still difficult to raise money for a pure wildcat program , '' says William Thomas , a Texas Commerce Bank official in Houston , `` institutions are starting to see there are cycles to these things 
The appetite for oil-service stocks has been especially strong 
Contractors such as Parker Drilling Co. are raising cash again through stock offerings 
Most oil companies are still reluctant to add to the office and professional staffs they slashed so deeply . 
Out in the oil fields , if activity picks up much more , shortages could appear 
Out in the oil fields , if activity picks up much more , shortages could appear 
Mr. Ramirez , who arrived late at the Sharpshooter with his crew 
Last year , `` I was off a straight month 
Mr. Ramirez , who arrived late at the Sharpshooter with his crew because he had started early in the morning setting up tanks at another site , just got the first raise he can remember in eight years , to $ 8.50 an hour from $ 8 . Norman Young , a `` mud-logger '' at the Sniper well , has worked all but about nine days of this year . 
A native of the area , he is back now after riding the oil-field boom to the top 
`` I think it 's on the way back now . 
Only 14,505 wells , including 4,900 dry holes , were drilled for oil and natural gas in the U.S. in the first nine months of the year , down 22.4 % from the like 1988 period . 
The figures confirm that there certainly is n't any drilling boom . 
After 11:30 a.m. or so `` we have them standing and waiting , '' she says , as she whips out orders for hamburgers and the daily special -LRB- grilled roast beef , cheese and jalapeno pepper sandwich on whole wheat , potato salad , baked beans and pudding , plus coffee or iced tea . 
The U.S. Attorney 's office filed a criminal complaint against six bank employees charging them with conspiracy in the scheme , which apparently was capable of handling millions of dollars a week by funneling cash through fictitious bank accounts . 
Arrested were Jose O. Lopez , 27 years old , of Whittier , Calif. , the vault supervisor ; Carlos O. Huerta , 29 , of La Puente ; Luis A. Arroyo , 36 , of Los Angeles ; Ignacio Rojas Jr. , 32 , of Baldwin Park ; Doris Moreno , 37 , of Bell Gardens ; and Ana L. Azucena , 27 , of Huntington Park . 
Such an offer could torpedo a plan by Lion Nathan Ltd. of New Zealand to acquire half the brewing interests . 
S.A. Brewing , which is 20%-owned by Elders IXL Ltd. , Australia 's largest brewer , will make a takeover offer for all of Bell Resources 
Contrary to what might be expected based on the headline on John R. Dorfman 's recent Money Matters article -LRB- `` Pros Hit Theorists Right Where It Hurts '' Oct. 3 -RRB- , I was able to stand proudly before my undergraduate finance students and proclaim that the findings of your yearlong experiment on stock picking is completely consistent with what they have been taught in the classroom . 
Mr. Dorfman states that an investor who invested $ 100,000 a year ago in the first four stocks selected by your pros 
Mr. Dorfman states that an investor who invested $ 100,000 a year ago in the first four stocks selected by your pros and then sold those one month later , purchasing the four new pro picks , and repeated this process for the year would have accumulated $ 166,537 , excluding account dividends , taxes and commissions . 
Accepted theories state that investors require higher returns on riskier investments . 
If you asked me to select a stock with the highest expected return , I would select a stock with the greatest amount of undiversifiable risk 
Your hypothetical investor is simply being compensated for taking on this added risk . 
Mr. Dorfman provides confirming evidence of this phenomenon 
What matters is that the stocks recommended by your pros tend to be substantially riskier than a diversified portfolio . 
Most of the cases have been in California , where one agent was stabbed 
`` They looked like ordinary vacationers at first , '' says Willy LLerena , owner of Travel Air Service in Monte Bello , Calif. , describing five men who entered his agency last June . 
`` They looked like ordinary vacationers at first , '' says Willy LLerena , owner of Travel Air Service in Monte Bello , Calif. , describing five men who entered his agency last June . 
When he initially refused , he says , they stabbed him in the back and made off with $ 2,000 and 280 blank tickets 
As word of the crime spree has spread , many agents have started changing their open-door policies 
`` It 's hard to deal with clients this way in a service business , '' says Ralph `` Bud '' Conner , owner of the agency , which was robbed of 180 blank tickets and $ 850 last month . 
As word of the crime spree has spread , many agents have started changing their open-door policies . 
Agents say airlines , which track ticket numbers of all stolen tickets , should be doing more to catch the thieves by confiscating the tickets 
Agents say airlines , which track ticket numbers of all stolen tickets , should be doing more to catch the thieves by confiscating the tickets when they 're used . 
But airlines say it would be too expensive and cause too many delays 
The law -- the first of its kind -- requires car rental companies in Texas to charge only `` reasonable '' rates for collision-damage waiver insurance . 
Before the law went into effect last month , car rental companies were charging as much as $ 12 a day for the waiver in Texas 
`` If they 're telling the truth now 
A spokesman for Hertz Corp. acknowledges , `` The waiver is n't a source of protection for consumers , but a source of revenue . '' 
But Hertz points out that at least it 's now charging only $ 3.95 a day in Texas 
Flight Attendants Lag 
IF YOUR FLIGHT attendant seems a little weary , it may be because he or she has been working 20 straight hours 
IF YOUR FLIGHT attendant seems a little weary , it may be 
This happens 
This happens because the FAA does n't have any rules on duty time for flight attendants 
Experts say such long hours for attendants pose a safety risk . 
`` They have to work such long hours 
`` They have to work such long hours 
`` They have to work such long hours and then we expect them to be heroes 
Why do you maintain the House-passed capital-gains plan is a `` temporary '' reduction 
Depending on the size of the gain and the rate of inflation , indexation can mean a lower tax payment than using the 19.6 % rate without indexation . 
But in any event -- and this is the important point -- tax `` payments '' on capital gains will be lower with indexation than under current law , even though the tax `` rate '' is the same under both systems 
But in any event -- and this is the important point -- tax `` payments '' on capital gains will be lower with indexation than under current law 
The reduction eases the burden on portfolio changes and frees capital to seek more productive or more appropriate uses . 
A large part of the long-term appreciation of assets reflects inflation 
Does the Journal really believe that people ignore the prospect of having a substantial part of their capital confiscated 
The Financial Accounting Standards Board said it will soon issue a rule requiring disclosure about the financial risk of certain financial instruments . 
The balance-sheet detail was opposed by many banks and thrifts that felt the cost of supplying such data was n't worth the value of the disclosures . 
The rule will require companies with financial instruments that have off-balance sheet risks to disclose data about the value and terms of the instruments , any accounting loss that would occur 
Scott Miller , an FASB project manager , said that a final rule will be issued before year end . 
Poughkeepsie Savings Bank said a plan to sell its South Carolina branch offices to First Citizens Bank , of Columbia , S.C. , fell through . 
Poughkeepsie Savings Bank said a plan to sell its South Carolina branch offices to First Citizens Bank , of Columbia , S.C. , fell through . Poughkeepsie also expects to post a one-time charge of $ 8.3 million , resulting in a net loss for the third quarter . 
Poughkeepsie said it is continuing to try to sell itself , under a June agreement with a dissident-shareholder group . 
The bank also said its effort would continue past the Nov. 1 deadline set in that agreement 
The bank also said its effort would continue past the Nov. 1 deadline set in that agreement 
Kinder-Care Inc. was dropped from the consumer services industry group of the Dow Jones Equity Market index 
The vaccine is effective in preventing a disease that still afflicts about 60 million children a year world-wide , causing an estimated one million deaths . 
This bacterium produces a toxin that , if used as a vaccine , can induce immunity to whooping cough 
This bacterium produces a toxin that , if used as a vaccine , can induce immunity to whooping cough . 
It turned out that although it took all five genes to produce the toxin , only one was responsible for the toxin 's virulence 
Ordinarily in genetic engineering each of these genes , minus the one that caused the virulence , would have been transferred to another bacterium , called E. coli 
The researchers said they did this 
The researchers said they did this , but the toxin did n't induce immunity to whooping cough . 
The scientists then took the five toxin genes and triggered a mutation in the one gene that caused virulence . 
These bacterial `` cousins '' ordinarily do n't make the toxin . 
At a time when foreign banks are pouring vast resources and personnel into West Germany 's financial center , the opening of a three-man office on a Frankfurt side street should n't attract much attention . 
Like other foreign banks establishing a presence here , the family describes its move as a calculated decision to set up a financial services outlet in Europe 's largest economy ahead of the integration of European Community markets after 1992 . 
In 1796 , Mayer Amschel Rothschild founded Bankhaus M.A. Rothschild & Sons 
The original bank in Frankfurt closed in 1901 after the death of Wilhelm Carl von Rothschild 
Baron Elie de Rothschild , the family 's elder spokesman , explains that by the end of the 19th century , Berlin had replaced Frankfurt as Germany 's financial center . 
`` At the time we had only daughters 
Although its palatial residence was destroyed by bombs during World War II , the Rothschilds ' place in Frankfurt 's history is still recalled by the city park and a street bearing the Rothschild name 
The persecution pursued the Rothschilds across Europe 
`` For a member of the Rothschild family , the return to Frankfurt is a very meaningful event 
`` For a member of the Rothschild family , the return to Frankfurt is a very meaningful event , although it might not mean as much to German banking as it means to us , '' says Baron David de Rothschild , Elie 's younger cousin and a partner in Rothschild & Cie . Banque in Paris . 
`` It would be surprising 
`` It would be surprising if they did n't come to Frankfurt in time for 1992 
`` It would be surprising if they did n't come to Frankfurt in time for 1992 , and they bring an interesting tradition . 
The new representative office , with one manager and two assistants -- none a member of the Rothschild family -- will carry out no banking operations of its own . 
He left his job as general manager of Shearson Lehman Hutton Holdings Inc. 's Frankfurt office 
He left his job as general manager of Shearson Lehman Hutton Holdings Inc. 's Frankfurt office because , he says , `` When the Rothschilds called , I could n't resist 
In Europe , the Rothschilds banks are focusing on mergers and acquisitions 
In Europe , the Rothschilds banks are focusing on mergers and acquisitions as European industry restructures ahead of 1992 . 
`` Obviously , there are quantitative limitations on the assistance we can provide 
As at the Zurich bank , the minimum investment for individuals will be high : about a million German marks -LRB- $ 538,000 -RRB- , three times what many other West German investment banks require . 
`` But we do make exceptions 
As program trading comes under renewed attack for causing stock market gyrations , a few people on Wall Street say it is time to consider extreme measures 
Since stock futures were created in 1982 , trading on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange and other exchanges has boomed to the point where trading in stock-index futures rivals that in the stocks themselves 
The conventional view , as voiced by Goldman , Sachs & Co. partner Fischer Black , is that stocks and `` derivatives '' such as futures and options `` form a single market 
The conventional view , as voiced by Goldman , Sachs & Co. partner Fischer Black , is that stocks and `` derivatives '' such as futures and options `` form a single market , and that derivatives make it a more liquid market . '' 
But increasingly , people are questioning that view 
Warren Buffett has been on record as opposing stock-index futures since their inception in 1982 . 
Like others , Mr. Gabelli says that if futures cause investors to lose confidence in stocks , they will move away from stocks 
Like others , Mr. Gabelli says that if futures cause investors to lose confidence in stocks , they will move away from stocks -- as many have already done . 
While it was once expected that futures would mimic stock prices , traders now routinely check the futures markets in Chicago before they buy or sell stocks 
While it was once expected that futures would mimic stock prices , traders now routinely check the futures markets in Chicago 
When Chicago futures prices jump up or down , the New York Stock Exchange follows 
When Chicago futures prices jump up or down , the New York Stock Exchange follows . 
On Tuesday , for instance , the Dow Jones Industrial Average plunged 80 points in little more than an hour . 
`` I think they should close down the futures exchange 
`` I think they should close down the futures exchange 
Although index arbitrage is said to add liquidity to markets , John Bachmann , managing partner of Edward D. Jones , says too much liquidity is n't a good thing 
`` It is n't investing . '' `` The kind of instant liquidity that is implied by index futures is that you can buy a portfolio over two years and get out in one day . It 's too disruptive , '' he says . 
They note that stocks experienced volatile swings long before futures . 
And , defenders say , few people complain about futures 
Louis Margolis , managing director in charge of equity options and futures at Salomon Inc. , says that trading baskets of stocks began in the 1970s 
Since stock-index arbitrage merely narrows the gap between prices in the futures and stock markets , it ca n't add to volatility 
For one thing , the Chicago futures exchanges have political and financial clout -- including many friends in Congress . 
`` If futures are n't permitted here , we 'll take it to Australia or Tokyo 
Based on yesterday 's closing price of the S&P , the average value of one day 's trading amounts to $ 7.6 billion . 
If managers fear that the overall stock market will fall , but want to continue owning stocks , they can hold on to specific stocks and sell a corresponding amount of futures contracts 
If managers fear that the overall stock market will fall , but want to continue owning stocks , they can hold on to specific stocks and sell a corresponding amount of futures contracts 
Many investment managers say futures are useful as a way to hedge portfolios . 
And although criticism of futures generally comes from Wall Street , one Chicago futures trader notes that brokerage firms rely on futures as hedging tools when they buy and sell big blocks of stocks from institutions 
And although criticism of futures generally comes from Wall Street , one Chicago futures trader notes that brokerage firms rely on futures as hedging tools 
Margin requirements for speculators on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange are currently about 7 % . 
Some critics say futures encourage people to think of stocks as a single commodity , rather than as investments in individual businesses . 
Thus , they say , futures inhibit the basic purpose of the stock market : to accurately price securities 
The S&P 500 index futures `` transferred the identity of 500 stocks into one unit - making them a simple commodity to trade , '' says George Kegler , senior vice president at A. Webster Dougherty in Philadelphia . 
The S&P 500 index futures `` transferred the identity of 500 stocks into one unit - making them a simple commodity to trade , '' says George Kegler , senior vice president at A. Webster Dougherty in Philadelphia . 
The S&P futures are merely a `` cheaper and quicker '' way to get access to all 500 stocks , he says . 
Stockholders , as a group , can win 
Stockholders , as a group , can win , because they own a share of corporate earnings , which can grow and boost stock prices . 
An EC spokesman said the two companies will be notified 
At issue is an accord dating back to March in which Air France gained access to five domestic French routes under Air Inter 's flight numbers 
An Air Inter spokesman said , `` Because they -LCB- the EC -RCB- have doubts , we will work again on the text and the contents of the accord 
The judge handling the case in state Supreme Court , a trial court , had tossed out the jury verdicts , ruling that the matter should have been handled under federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration rules . 
GM sought U.S. antitrust clearance last week to purchase more than $ 15 million worth of Jaguar shares but does n't own any yet , according to GM officials here and at the company 's Detroit headquarters . 
The No. 1 U.S. auto maker then wrote Jaguar that it intends `` to go to that 15 % '' level 
Speculative investors , betting on an imminent clash between Ford and GM , pushed up Jaguar 's share price five pence -LRB- eight U.S. cents -RRB- to a near-record 720 pence -LRB- $ 11.60 -RRB- in late trading on London 's stock exchange yesterday . 
But an all-out bidding war between the world 's top auto giants for Britain 's leading luxury-car maker seems unlikely . 
And powerful political pressures may convince the Conservative government to keep its so-called golden share , which limits any individual holding to 15 % 
`` The golden share is a single share 
The government retained the single share after selling its stake in Jaguar in 1984 -- part of a nationalistic practice of protecting former government-owned enterprises to deflect criticism of privatization 
Ford is willing to bid for 100 % of Jaguar 's shares 
Ford might succeed 
As Jaguar 's biggest holder and Britain 's biggest car maker , Ford could turn up the heat by convening a special shareholders ' meeting and urging holders to drop the limits early . 
While the visit was unrelated to Jaguar , GM Chairman Roger Smith answered the legislators ' questions about it over lunch Tuesday 
And powerful political pressures may convince the Conservative government to keep its so-called golden share , which limits any individual holding to 15 % , until the restriction expires on Dec. 31 , 1990 . 
The Conservatives do n't dare jeopardize marginal Tory seats in Coventry , where Jaguar has headquarters 
The Conservatives do n't dare jeopardize marginal Tory seats in Coventry , where Jaguar has headquarters , nor can the government easily back down on promised protection for a privatized company 
The Conservatives do n't dare jeopardize marginal Tory seats in Coventry , where Jaguar has headquarters , nor can the government easily back down on promised protection for a privatized company while it proceeds with controversial plans to privatize most of Britain 's water and electricity industries . 
Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher might , however , be receptive to any request by Jaguar Chairman Sir John Egan for the restriction 's early removal to let GM amass more than 15 % or mount a friendly suitor bid against Ford . 
The company said the situation in the U.S. is still uncertain 
Analysts said SKF 's results for the first nine months lived up to market expectations 
This may have been true 10 years ago 
He has not changed 
While Utah is not yet a haven for environmentalism , public views toward the environment have significantly improved 
If Mr. Redford wanted to be accepted by the people of Utah , he should have taken an advisory role instead of one of forcing his personal preferences 
If Mr. Redford wanted to be accepted by the people of Utah , he should have taken an advisory role instead of one of forcing his personal preferences . 
Furthermore , his actions imply that it is too damaging or costly for society to provide jobs through power-plant construction , coal mining or to build roads for public safety because of the adverse impact on the environment 
When President Bush travels to Costa Rica today , he 'll go with little of the fanfare that accompanies many of his foreign travels 
When President Bush travels to Costa Rica today , he 'll go with little of the fanfare that accompanies many of his foreign travels . 
When President Bush travels to Costa Rica today , he 'll go with little of the fanfare that accompanies many of his foreign travels . 
These critics object to Mr. Bush 's participation in a meeting that includes Nicaraguan President Daniel Ortega among the guests . 
In addition , they argue he wo n't help Washington 's standing in the region by trumpeting the U.S. commitment to democracy 
`` I believe it will do more damage than good 
The administration said improvements in Costa Rica 's economic condition warrant the cut in aid , which the country uses mainly to make payments on its $ 4.5 billion foreign debt . 
`` We are crossing the river 
Democrats argue that Costa Rica deserves more assistance for the same reason that Mr. Bush is attending the celebration this weekend : to reward the country for its stability in a region wracked with turmoil and for its efforts to promote peace in Nicaragua . 
Mr. Arias 's long-time refusal to support the U.S. 's campaign against leftist Nicaragua earned him the ire of the Reagan White House . 
While they acknowledge the president will attend several meals and a working session also attended by Mr. Ortega , they insist that Mr. Bush wo n't be extending the Nicaraguan leader any special courtesies 
While they acknowledge the president will attend several meals and a working session also attended by Mr. Ortega , they insist that Mr. Bush wo n't be extending the Nicaraguan leader any special courtesies . 
While they acknowledge the president will attend several meals and a working session also attended by Mr. Ortega , they insist that Mr. Bush wo n't be extending the Nicaraguan leader any special courtesies . The administration also made clear its continuing distate for the leftist Nicaraguan government in recent days , endorsing a package of electoral aid to the Nicaraguan opposition , renewing the U.S. trade embargo against the country and continuing to complain that the country supports rebel groups in the region . 
`` There wo n't be any formal resolutions or communiques , I do n't think . 
`` There wo n't be any formal resolutions or communiques , I do n't think . 
They want late-night shuttles to the biology labs . They want a 24-hour library . 
SONGsters are mad as heck about campus anti-intellectualism 
`` We could have called ourselves the Academic Intellectual Society 
`` We could have called ourselves the Academic Intellectual Society 
Geeks , by at least one definition , are chicken-mutilating circus freaks . Some people may think of nerds as calculator-toting , socially awkward individuals with shirt-pocket liners for their pencils and a preoccupation with computers and matters numerical . 
One of the group 's first projects is a `` procrastination hot line '' that students could call 
Nerds and geeks sometimes find themselves a bit isolated at Harvard . 
So Mr. Kahn says high priority is being given to creating a computerized matchmaking service `` where instead of being matched for eye color , you could be matched for similar intellectual interests . '' 
`` I 'm a math major 
It could work . 
The FDIC cleared the move yesterday 
The FDIC cleared the move yesterday , and the banks must wait at least 30 days 
William J. Russo was named senior vice president , public affairs and advertising , for this financial and travel services concern 's American Express Bank Ltd. subsidiary . 
At the same time , moves toward tighter air-quality standards are spurring interest in lighter or alternative fuels that do n't pollute as much as fuel refined from `` heavy '' crudes , generally high in sulfur . 
Recently Saudi Arabia and Venezuela , traditional heavy-crude producers , have boasted of new finds of light , low-sulfur oil by their national oil companies . 
Recently Saudi Arabia and Venezuela , traditional heavy-crude producers , have boasted of new finds of light , low-sulfur oil by their national oil companies . Venezuela has also earmarked $ 200 million in new money for light-crude exploration . 
He made a special trip to examine U.S. environmental trends 
ENI needs to know what 's coming 
Now the wildlife refuge has been closed to the industry , possibly for years . 
Now the wildlife refuge has been closed to the industry , possibly for years . Similarly , a group of companies led by Chevron Corp. has been unable to pump oil found off the California coast in the early 1980s . A huge production system built in the sea off Santa Barbara and ashore is sitting idle . 
`` We could have sat on it longer 
As the Soviet Union grapples with its worsening economy , leading reformers have drawn up a blueprint for change designed to push the nation much closer to a free-market system 
They lay out a clear timetable and methodology for liberalizing the system of setting prices , breaking up huge industrial monopolies and putting unprofitable state-owned companies out of business . 
While many solutions to the nation 's economic troubles are being discussed , the blueprint is attracting widespread attention here because of its comprehensiveness and presumed high-level authorship 
Although it was published unsigned in the latest edition of the weekly Ekonomicheskaya Gazeta , Soviet sources say the article was written by Leonid Abalkin and a small group of colleagues 
The economic ideas in the document are much bolder than current policies . 
For example , the proposed overhaul of prices -- an extremely sensitive political topic -- is far more precise than the vague plans announced by Mr. Gorbachev in 1987 
The economic ideas in the document are much bolder than current policies . 
The economic ideas in the document are much bolder than current policies . 
But the proposals also display political savvy , couching some of the most controversial ideas in cautious language so as not to alienate powerful conservatives in the government who stand to lose out 
As policy-makers draw up proposals for the next five-year plan , which starts in 1991 , the blueprint represents a powerful first shot in what is likely to be a fierce battle over economic reform 
The authors make a gloomy assessment of the economy and concede that `` quick and easy paths to success simply do n't exist . '' 
The entire system of centrally set prices would be overhauled 
Consumers would still be able to buy some food and household goods at subsidized prices 
The blueprint is at its vaguest 
The blueprint is at its vaguest when referring to the fate of the two powerful economic institutions that seem likely to oppose such sweeping plans : the State Planning Committee , known as Gosplan , and the State Committee for Material Supply , or Gossnab . 
But it hints strongly that both organizations would increasingly lose their clout 
Ready , Willing and Unable I always lift the hood 
Ready , Willing and Unable I always lift the hood When my car does n't start ; If gadgets at home do n't work I coolly take them apart 
I 'll admit there 's nothing wrong That I ever do find 
I 'll admit there 's nothing wrong That I ever do find , But it 's nice 
Do n't worry ; people will learn to read 
Albert Engelken and Robert Thomson had never met 
Mr. Engelken , now a transit-association executive in Washington , D.C. , and Mr. Thomson , a paper-products salesman in Montvale , N.J. , had n't even talked to each other . 
Like many sports buffs , Mr. Engelken has turned cynic . 
But his is a story about a hero in an era of sports anti-heroes , and about what Babe Ruth , Mr. Engelken reminds us , once called `` the only real game in the world . '' 
To Mr. Engelken , it is also a story `` about love 
Baseball fans throughout New York had sweated out a long summer with their teams 
The Giants scored once and had runners on second -LCB- Whitey Lockman -RCB- and third -LCB- Clint Hartung 
The tension mounted 
The pitch sailed toward Bobby Thomson high and inside 
Mr. Thomson , a tall , Scottish-born , right-hand hitter , stepped into the batter 's box . `` Thomson took a called strike , '' Mr. Engelken recounts . The tension mounted as Ralph Branca , again on the mound , stared down the batter . He wound up and let loose a fastball . The pitch sailed toward Bobby Thomson high and inside and then , with a crack of the bat , was sent rocketing back into the lower leftfield stands . `` Giants fans went into euphoria , '' says Mr. Engelken . 
There ca n't be an older baseball fan alive who does n't clearly remember that Bobby Thomson homer , who ca n't tell you where he was 
Mr. Engelken and Mr. Thomson drifted in different directions in the subsequent years 
Mr. Thomson played outfield and third base until 1960 , posting a lifetime .270 batting average and chalking up 264 home runs 
Mr. Engelken moved south to Washington 
When his wife , Betsy , came down the aisle on their wedding day in 1966 , Mr. Engelken -- no slouch on the romantic front -- gave her the ultimate compliment : `` You look prettier than Bobby Thomson 's home run 
The couple 's first dog , Homer , was named after the Great Event 
The couple 's first dog , Homer , was named after the Great Event , though unwitting friends assumed he was the namesake of the poet . When his wife , Betsy , came down the aisle on their wedding day in 1966 , Mr. Engelken -- no slouch on the romantic front -- gave her the ultimate compliment : `` You look prettier than Bobby Thomson 's home run . '' 
And when Mr. Engelken 's sister , Martha , who was born two days before the home run , reached her 25th birthday , Mr. Engelken wrote his sports hero to tell him of the coincidence of events 
Mr. Thomson sent off a card to Martha : `` It does n't seem like 25 years 
The family license plate reads `` ENG 23 , '' the first three letters of the family name and -- no surprise here -- Bobby Thomson 's uniform number . 
At the appointed exit , the family pulled over 
`` Bertie , '' she said , `` Happy 50th Birthday . This is Bobby Thomson . '' 
His hero signed photographs of the homer and diplomatically called Ralph Branca `` a very fine pitcher . '' 
And when Mr. Engelken asked him why he took time off from work for somebody he did n't even know , Bobby Thomson replied : `` You know , Albert , if you have the chance in life to make somebody this happy , you have an obligation to do it 
And when Mr. Engelken asked him why he took time off from work for somebody he did n't even know , Bobby Thomson replied : `` You know , Albert , if you have the chance in life to make somebody this happy , you have an obligation to do it 
In an interview , Mr. Thomson , who is married and has three grown children , says he has few ties to baseball these days , other than playing old-timers games now and again . 
In response to the letters , Mr. Thomson usually sends an autographed photo with a polite note , and rarely arranges a rendezvous . 
But when Betsy Engelken wrote him , saying she could stop near his New Jersey home , it seemed different 
When the Engelken family got back from its trip up north , Mr. Engelken wrote it all down 
You might not find one in the ` Jurisprudence ' column . 
When that agreement expires , Torstar will be free to increase its 22.4 % stake in Southam , or to make an offer for the whole company 
`` To be profitable , the paper requires more circulation 
Mr. Ondaatje could n't be reached for comment 
Mr. Cole said the sale of the 77-year Financial Times , which Southam has owned since 1961 , is consistent with Southam 's strategy of cutting costs to obtain maximum profits from its operations 
This year , it has moved to cut costs in its newspaper division through layoffs and asset sales 
Operating profit in the company 's abrasives segment rose 16 % 
Operating profit in the company 's abrasives segment rose 16 % while operating profit in the engineering materials segment rose 2 % . 
However , the company 's petroleum services segment , while profitable , was hurt by high financing costs associated with the company 's buy-out of a 50 % stake in Eastman Christensen Co. from Texas Eastern Corp. last June 
In 1987 , a quarter of the population owned 91 % of the nation 's 71,895 square kilometers of private land 
In 1987 , a quarter of the population owned 91 % of the nation 's 71,895 square kilometers of private land , the report said , and 10 % of the population owned 65 % of the land devoted to housing . 
`` I 'm afraid of a popular revolt 
`` I 'm afraid of a popular revolt if this situation is n't corrected , '' he adds . 
-- Grace periods ranging from two to five years 
The administration says the measures would stem rampant property speculation , free more land for the government 's ambitious housing-construction program , designed to build two million apartments by 1992 -- and , perhaps , boost the popular standing of President Roh . 
The Citizens Coalition for Economic Justice , a public-interest group leading the charge for radical reform , wants restrictions on landholdings , high taxation of capital gains , and drastic revamping of the value-assessment system on which property taxes are based . 
`` There is no violation of the capitalistic principle of private property in what we are doing , '' says Lee Kyu Hwang , director of the government 's Land Bureau , which drafted the bills . 
One research institute calculated that as much as 67 % of corporate-owned land is held by 403 companies 
The chief culprits , he says , are big companies and business groups that buy huge amounts of land `` not for their corporate use , but for resale at huge profit . '' 
The Ministry of Finance , as a result , has proposed a series of measures that would restrict business investment in real estate even more tightly than restrictions aimed at individuals . 
But Mrs. Park acknowledges that even if the policies work to slow or stop speculation , apartment prices are unlikely to go down 
Although profits were `` squeezed '' in 1989 , mainly as a result of higher raw-material costs , the company said it is confident about future earnings and cash flow for 1990 and beyond 
Greg Smith , Moon Township manager , said the ordinance is intended to prevent the concentration of group homes for the mentally retarded from changing `` the character and flavor of the neighborhood . '' 
Energetic and concrete action has been taken in Colombia during the past 60 days against the mafiosi of the drug trade 
Energetic and concrete action has been taken in Colombia during the past 60 days against the mafiosi of the drug trade , but it has not been sufficiently effective 
Ten years ago , the newspaper El Espectador , of which my brother Guillermo was editor , began warning of the rise of the drug mafias and of their leaders ' aspirations to control Colombian politics , especially the Congress . 
Then , when it would have been easier to resist them , nothing was done 
Then , when it would have been easier to resist them , nothing was done 
Within the past two months a bomb exploded in the offices of the El Espectador in Bogota , destroying a major part of its installations and equipment . 
And only last week the newspaper Vanguardia Liberal in the city of Bucaramanga was bombed 
Distribution centers are bombed 
If the Colombian media accept this new and hideous censorship there is little doubt that the drug mafia 's terrorism someday will extend to all the newspapers published in the free world 
Energetic and concrete action has been taken in Colombia during the past 60 days against the mafiosi of the drug trade , but it has not been sufficiently effective , because , unfortunately , it came too late . 
Reduction , if not the total cessation , of drug consumption is the requirement for victory 
Luxurious homes and ranches have been raided by the military authorities 
More than 300 planes and helicopters have been impounded at airports 
More than 300 planes and helicopters have been impounded at airports , and a large number of vehicles and launches has been confiscated . 
Much has been accomplished 
Much has been accomplished and public opinion decisively supports the government and the army 
Much has been accomplished and public opinion decisively supports the government and the army 
Laundered drug money has served only to increase , unrealistically , the price of real estate , creating serious problems for low-income people who aspire to own their own homes . 
Drug money has also gone to buy expensive cars , airplanes , launches and nightclubs where drugs are consumed . 
But most of the drug money is kept in investments and in financial institutions outside Colombia . 
The price of coffee has gone down almost 45 % since the beginning of the year , to the lowest level -LRB- after inflation -RRB- since the Great Depression . 
Our coffee growers face reductions in their income 
Thirty-four thousand of its children live in foster homes 
Its tax base is shrinking , a $ 1 billion budget deficit looms 
When the dust and dirt settle in an extra-nasty mayoral race , the man most likely to gain custody of all this is a career politician named David Dinkins 
Running the nation 's largest and most ornery city may be no treat 
As the campaign hits the home stretch , however , voters still have very little idea what they can expect from him 
Running the nation 's largest and most ornery city may be no treat , but at least Mr. Dinkins knows what to expect from it . 
While he is widely described as a man with deep convictions , he has few major political programs that he can call his own 
Now , as election day nears , even some supporters wonder what he will do if he wins the mayoralty on Nov. 7 
Now , as election day nears , even some supporters wonder what he will do 
They wonder whether he has the economic know-how to steer the city through a possible fiscal crisis 
Will he , if he wins , be in the thrall of the most liberal of his allies , who advocate such policies as rent control for commercial buildings , or will he tilt toward the real-estate interests that have funneled money into his campaign 
Will he , if he wins , be in the thrall of the most liberal of his allies , who advocate such policies as rent control for commercial buildings 
After his decisive primary victory over Mayor Edward I. Koch in September , Mr. Dinkins coasted , until recently , on a quite-comfortable lead over his Republican opponent , Rudolph Giuliani , the former crime buster who has proved a something of a bust as a candidate . 
But Mr. Dinkins has stumbled in the past two weeks over his campaign 's payments to a black activist who is a convicted kidnapper , and over his handling of a stock sale to his son . 
Polls also have recorded some slippage in Mr. Dinkins 's support among Jewish voters 
`` A lot of people think I will give away the store 
The city is full of aging bridges , water mains and roadways that are in need of billions of dollars worth of repair . Renewed efforts to fight drugs and crime will be costly . 
But city officials say tax revenues are lagging . 
Mr. Koch already has announced he will drop 3,200 jobs from the city payroll 
New York State Comptroller Edward Regan predicts a $ 1.3 billion budget gap for the city 's next fiscal year , a gap that could grow 
If elected , Mr. Dinkins will probably have no choice but to raise taxes on overburdened businesses or cut spending in already under-serviced neighborhoods 
`` His supporters are not venal 
`` His supporters are not venal , but their solution to everything will be to spend more money 
No doubt , Mr. Dinkins has been a calming influence . 
A story about how he mishandled the sale to his son of his stock in a media company controlled by his political patron Percy Sutton was allowed to fester a full week 
He has canceled numerous campaign appointments and was largely inaccessible to the media 
A story about how he mishandled the sale to his son of his stock in a media company controlled by his political patron Percy Sutton was allowed to fester a full week before Mr. Dinkins faced the media . His campaign was caught flat-footed amid allegations it paid almost $ 10,000 for what it said was a `` get-out-the-vote '' effort by black activist Sonny Carson , a convicted kidnapper who later said publicly that he is `` anti-white . '' 
A former U.S. Marine , Mr. Dinkins got off to a quick start in politics , joining a local Democratic political club in the 1950s , linking up with black urban leaders such as Charles Rangel , Basil Paterson and Mr. Sutton , and getting himself elected to the state assembly in 1965 . 
A former U.S. Marine , Mr. Dinkins got off to a quick start in politics , joining a local Democratic political club in the 1950s , linking up with black urban leaders such as Charles Rangel , Basil Paterson and Mr. Sutton , and getting himself elected to the state assembly in 1965 . 
Later , Mr. Dinkins became more deeply indebted to Mr. Sutton and other city pols , including then-City Council President Paul O'Dwyer 
Mr. Sutton recalls : `` When I left , I sat down with Charlie -LCB- Rangel -RCB- , Basil -LCB- Paterson -RCB- and David 
Mr. Sutton recalls : `` When I left , I sat down with Charlie -LCB- Rangel -RCB- , Basil -LCB- Paterson -RCB- and David 
Mr. Sutton recalls : `` When I left , I sat down with Charlie -LCB- Rangel -RCB- , Basil -LCB- Paterson -RCB- and David , and David said , ` Who will run for borough president 
David Garth , Mayor Koch 's longtime media adviser , says of Mr. Dinkins , `` He really is the personification of the patronage system . 
Mr. Dinkins lost twice by wide margins 
Mr. Dinkins lost twice by wide margins 
Mr. Dinkins lost twice by wide margins before finally getting elected borough president in 1985 . 
Colleagues today recall with some humor how meetings would crawl into the early morning hours 
On the campaign stump , he often points out that he was the only Board of Estimate member to vote against a controversial real-estate project at Manhattan 's Columbus Circle . 
He would have got a lot more done 
`` I had some problem from time to time on the length of time he would take to make up his mind 
`` I had some problem from time to time on the length of time he would take to make up his mind , '' Mr. Ferrer admits , but he maintains that he did n't delay his support of Mr. Dinkins 
When he later sided with striking hospital workers , some allies cringed a little more 
Some supporters were stunned this summer when Mr. Dinkins suggested weakening the law forbidding public employees to go on strike . 
When he later sided with striking hospital workers , some allies cringed a little more , concerned that Mr. Dinkins was setting the wrong tone for coming contract negotiations with city employees . 
Then , two days before receiving an endorsement from environmental groups , Mr. Dinkins promised he would issue a three-year moratorium on construction of garbage-incinerator plants 
That announcement was roundly criticized by Mayor Koch 
While his public statements have at times been confusing , Mr. Dinkins 's position papers have more consistently reflected anti-development sentiment 
While his public statements have at times been confusing , Mr. Dinkins 's position papers have more consistently reflected anti-development sentiment . 
And he favors a more cooperative approach toward the neighboring states of New Jersey and Connecticut in the battle over companies thinking of moving employees out of New York City . 
Steven Spinola , president of the Real Estate Board of New York , an industry organization , says Mr. Dinkins 's `` economic development program is shortsighted 
Steven Spinola , president of the Real Estate Board of New York , an industry organization , says Mr. Dinkins 's `` economic development program is shortsighted , but when it comes down to it , he can be reasonable 
The key man seems to be the campaign manager , Mr. Lynch . 
But as the Dinkins campaign hit tough times this month , Andrew Cuomo , the politically seasoned son of the New York governor , is also said to have taken a more active role on strategy 
The key man seems to be the campaign manager , Mr. Lynch . 
If she remains influential with Mr. Dinkins , as some suggest she will , his mayoralty may take on a more anti-development flavor 
If she remains influential with Mr. Dinkins , as some suggest she will , his mayoralty may take on a more anti-development flavor . 
But Lincoln Center President Nathan Leventhal , who would head a Dinkins transition team , is more mainstream , as is real-estate executive Anthony Gliedman , another insider . 
Mr. Dinkins also has said he would receive economic advice from a board that would include American Express Co. chairman James D. Robinson III , investment banker Felix Rohatyn , leveraged-buy-out specialist Reginald Lewis and attorney Joseph Flom . 
Names of possible deputies that have surfaced include former mayoral candidate Richard Ravitch , former schools chancellor Frank Macchiarola and Messrs. Leventhal and Gliedman . 
`` If any of us think we 're going to sidetrack David 's determination to be the best possible mayor because of his obligations to us , we are making a sad mistake 
Adds Ms. Messinger , who is expected to win the borough president 's job Mr. Dinkins is vacating , `` You have to remember David is a pragmatist . '' 
He is taken aback in an interview 
`` The bottom line is that he is a very genuine and decent guy , '' says Malcolm Hoenlein , a Jewish community leader . 
A deep trench now runs along its north wall , exposed 
The petite , 29-year-old Ms. Johnson , dressed in jeans and a sweatshirt 
Equipped with cellular telephones , laptop computers , calculators and a pack of blank checks , they parcel out money 
The Victorian house that Ms. Johnson is inspecting has been deemed unsafe by town officials . 
Once inside , she spends nearly four hours measuring and diagramming each room in the 80-year-old house , gathering enough information to estimate what it would cost to rebuild it 
While she works inside , a tenant returns with several friends to collect furniture and clothing 
`` It 's hard to accept all the suffering people are going through 
If you do n't , you ca n't do your job 
For Aetna and other insurers , the San Francisco earthquake hit 
When the earthquake rocked northern California last week , Aetna senior claims executives from the San Francisco area were at the company 's Hartford , Conn. , headquarters for additional training on how to handle major catastrophes , including earthquakes 
Since commercial airline flights were disrupted , the company chartered three planes to fly these executives back to the West Coast and bring along portable computers , cellular phones and some claims adjusters 
In a few instances , Aetna knew it would probably be shelling out big bucks 
In a few instances , Aetna knew it would probably be shelling out big bucks , even before a client called or faxed in a claim . 
For example , officials at Walnut Creek office learned that the Amfac Hotel near the San Francisco airport , which is insured by Aetna , was badly damaged 
Adjusters must count the number of bathrooms , balconies , fireplaces , chimneys , microwaves and dishwashers . 
Adjusters must count the number of bathrooms , balconies , fireplaces , chimneys , microwaves and dishwashers . 
When Aetna adjuster Bill Schaeffer visited a retired couple in Oakland last Thursday , he found them living in a mobile home parked in front of their yard 
The house itself , located about 50 yards from the collapsed section of double-decker highway Interstate 880 , was pushed about four feet off its foundation 
The next day , Mr. Schaeffer presented the couple with a check for $ 151,000 to help them build a new home in the same neighborhood . 
He also is working with a real-estate agent to help find them an apartment to rent 
Many of the adjusters employed by Aetna and other insurers have some experience with construction work or carpentry . 
A friend mentioned that she might want to look into a position at Aetna 
Recently , a contractor saved her from falling three stories 
As Ms. Johnson stands outside the Hammack house after winding up her chores there , the house begins to creak and sway 
As Ms. Johnson stands outside the Hammack house 
It is an aftershock , one of about 2,000 since the earthquake 
The next day , as she prepares a $ 10,000 check for the Hammacks , which will cover the cost of demolishing the house and clearing away the debris , she jumps at the slightest noise 
Ms. Johnson tells them that , if the appliances ca n't be salvaged , their policy covers the replacement cost 
`` We can lose money on this , '' he says . 
Earthquake insurance costs about $ 2 to $ 4 annually for every $ 1,000 of value 
Earthquake insurance costs about $ 2 to $ 4 annually for every $ 1,000 of value , and high deductibles mean it generally pays 
Earthquake insurance costs about $ 2 to $ 4 annually for every $ 1,000 of value , and high deductibles mean it generally pays only when there is a catastrophe . 
The apartment she shares with a 12-year-old daughter and her sister was rattled , books and crystal hit the floor 
She did n't have hot water for five days . 
`` I realized I could n't waste this water 
She has n't played any music since the earthquake hit , out of respect for those who died on Interstate 880 where the roadway collapsed 
Alfred Sikes , the new FCC chairman , championed deregulation of AT&T at his last job as head of a Commerce Department telecommunications agency . 
By a 4-0 vote , it allowed AT&T to continue offering special discount packages to big customers , called Tariff 12 , rejecting appeals by AT&T competitors that the discounts were illegal . 
The agency said that because MCI 's offer had expired AT&T could n't continue to offer its discount plan 
The agency said that because MCI 's offer had expired AT&T could n't continue to offer its discount plan . 
The agency said that because MCI 's offer had expired AT&T could n't continue to offer its discount plan . 
But the agency specifically did n't rule whether AT&T had the right to match offers by competitors 
But the agency specifically did n't rule whether AT&T had the right to match offers by competitors if that means giving discounts not generally available to other phone users . 
Apart from those two actions , Mr. Sikes and the three other commissioners said they expect to re-examine how AT&T is regulated 
AT&T applauded the FCC 's actions . 
The Federal Communications Commission allowed American Telephone & Telegraph Co. to continue offering discount phone services for large-business customers and said it would soon re-examine its regulation of the long-distance market . 
If the heavy outflows continue , fund managers will face increasing pressure to sell off some of their junk to pay departing investors in the weeks ahead 
Mutual fund groups have n't lost control of much of the outgoing money , says Louis Harvey , Dalbar 's president . 
So the impact on the $ 950 billion mutual fund industry as a whole probably will be slight . 
`` You get a news item , it hits , you have strong redemptions that day and for two days following 
Vanguard 's $ 1 billion High Yield Bond Portfolio has seen $ 161 million flow out since early September ; $ 14 million of that seeped out Friday Oct. 13 alone . 
Junk-fund holders have barely broken even this year 
Fidelity 's junk fund has fallen 2.08 % this year through Oct. 19 , Lipper says ; the Vanguard fund rose 1.84 % 
Funds might be forced to accept lower prices 
Funds might be forced to accept lower prices if they expand their selling to the securities of less-creditworthy borrowers . 
Funds might be forced to accept lower prices if they expand their selling to the securities of less-creditworthy borrowers . 
The surprise resignation yesterday of British Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson sent sterling into a tailspin against the dollar by creating uncertainties about the direction of the British economy . 
The U.S. unit also firmed against other currencies on the back of sterling 's tumble 
The surprise resignation yesterday of British Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson sent sterling into a tailspin against the dollar by creating uncertainties about the direction of the British economy . 
Mr. Lawson 's resignation shocked many analysts , despite the recent recurring speculation of a rift between the chancellor and Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher . 
Mr. Foley of Lloyds noted that Mr. Lawson 's replacement , John Major , the British foreign minister , will take time to establish his credibility 
Mr. Foley of Lloyds noted that Mr. Lawson 's replacement , John Major , the British foreign minister , will take time to establish his credibility 
Mr. Foley of Lloyds noted that Mr. Lawson 's replacement , John Major , the British foreign minister , will take time to establish his credibility and , in the meantime , sterling could trend downward in volatile trade . 
But Mr. Foley predicted few economic policy changes ahead , commenting that Mr. Major shares `` a very similar view of the world '' with Mr. Lawson . 
Unless Mr. Lawson 's resignation leads to a change in British interest-rate policy -- Mrs. Thatcher 's administration firmly supports high interest rates to keep inflation in check -- or posturing toward full inclusion in the European Monetary System 's exchange-rate mechanism , Mr. Lawson 's withdrawal will have little long-term impact on exchange rates 
The surprise resignation yesterday of British Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson sent sterling into a tailspin against the dollar by creating uncertainties about the direction of the British economy . 
The pound , which had been trading at about $ 1.6143 in New York prior to Mr. Lawson 's announcement , sank more than two cents to $ 1.5930 , prompting the Federal Reserve Bank to buy pounds for dollars . 
The Fed 's move , however , only proved a stopgap to the pound 's slide 
The pound , which had been trading at about $ 1.6143 in New York prior to Mr. Lawson 's announcement , sank more than two cents to $ 1.5930 , prompting the Federal Reserve Bank to buy pounds for dollars . 
Home Nutritional Services Inc. , a wholly owned subsidiary of Healthdyne Inc. , proposed initial offering of four million common shares , of which 1.8 million will be sold by Home Nutritional Services 
Parametric Technology Corp. , initial public offering of 1.7 million common shares , of which 1,365,226 will be offered by the company 
SynOptics Communications Inc. , proposed public offering of 1.5 million common shares , of which 1,003,884 shares are to be sold by the company 
`` I agree , it 's ridiculous 
`` I agree , it 's ridiculous 
`` I agree , it 's ridiculous , '' says Mr. Boren , and indeed by now ridiculous may be the only way to describe how the U.S. decides to take -- or rather , not to take -- covert action 
George Bush disclosed the policy last week by reading it to GOP senators , perhaps as a way of shifting blame for the Panama fiasco to Congress . 
Mr. Boren himself did n't discover the warn-your-enemy nuance 
If this were 1949 , Mr. Boren might even succeed 
If this were 1949 , Mr. Boren might even succeed . 
Ohio Democrat Howard Metzenbaum refused to support any plan that might get people hurt , a charming notion for a great power . Maine Republican William Cohen said the plan might violate the assassination ban . 
Mr. Boren does n't think all this influenced the failed coup this month 
`` In the aftermath of Vietnam , in the aftermath of Iran-Contra , I can understand some people might think that if they plan a coup , they have to bring their lawyers 
Mr. Boren does n't think all this influenced the failed coup this month , but he does concede that Congress has made mistakes . 
Writing in the Harvard International Review , he says that his committee approves covert operations 
`` It does n't mean unanimous , '' he insists 
`` Why was containment so successful ? 
Elliott Abrams , a veteran of intelligence committee debates , doubts that even Grenada or the Libyan raid would have taken place 
`` I would n't say it 's quite a veto , '' Mr. Boren demurs . 
`` He would , '' agrees the chairman . 
`` But that is something the president ought to know 
Maybe 
He figures the episode will help `` clarify any ambiguities '' between the committee and administration . 
But it 's just as plausible to argue that if even David Boren can get mired in this sort of mess , the problem goes beyond legal interpretation 
The reply of the Metzenbaums and Cohens is that we ca n't abolish these oversight committees 
The reply of the Metzenbaums and Cohens is that we ca n't abolish these oversight committees because we 've seen too many abuses of executive power . 
This morning as I drove the 13 miles to my law office and endured the routine heavy traffic during that twice-daily journey , I thought of how fortunate it was that we made the decision to be residents of an expanding community with so many opportunities and where so much is happening 
I remembered being fired at age 44 , with five children at home 
Now , I revel in the freedom , culture , activity and diversity of this great metropolitan area with its traffic jams and perpetual road-building projects . 
Yet when my youngest child died two years ago , I buried him in the church cemetery of a small Missouri town 
Yet when my youngest child died two years ago , I buried him in the church cemetery of a small Missouri town . 
Shipbuilding became a point of pride 
Shipbuilding became a point of pride as Finnish shipyards remained profitable 
Shipbuilding became a point of pride as Finnish shipyards remained profitable long after rivals collapsed all over Europe . 
But if , as many now fear , Waertsilae Marine joins the ranks of failed shipyards it might turn out to be remembered most as a blemish on Finland 's international reputation 
One analyst said the first ship probably will be delivered close to schedule 
All the ships are covered by loan guarantees from a state export financing agency 
Bankers worry that if the government makes good a threat to withdraw its guarantee commitments , shippers will counter with a hail of lawsuits 
State loan guarantees are rarely a source of controversy . 
In that case , international banks and investors incurred big losses 
Doubts about the quality of state credit guarantees could reduce the competitive strength of Finnish companies in world markets where financing often is the key to winning orders , analysts warn . 
Under the rescue plan , Waertsilae sold 51 % of its stake to a group of banks and pension funds . 
Government officials were expected to combine Waertsilae Marine with two other struggling firms 
The government spent most of last year attempting to carry out such a plan but was thwarted 
After the restructuring of Waertsilae Marine and bolstered by state loan guarantees , two big bank creditors , Union Bank of Finland and state-controlled Postipankki , resumed lending the shipyard working capital . 
But the bankers got cold feet recently 
People familiar with Monday 's board meeting said it was the state 's refusal to explicitly reaffirm the credit guarantees that led Union Bank and Postipankki to halt lending to Waertsilae Marine . 
Analysts say Mr. Suominen had grown increasingly worried about the state 's potential financial exposure 
The talks may drag on for weeks 
One solution would be to sell the shipyard to an outsider . 
But there appear to be few , if any , suitors . 
Indeed , the potential losses make any rescue scheme unlikely 
The company said the repayment or redemption of the long-term debt , and the outstanding Class A cumulative exchangeable preferred stock of Cable News Network , was made possible by an offering of about $ 750 million of debentures and notes and $ 900 million in bank borrowings . 
General Motors Corp. said it will temporarily idle its Arlington , Texas , assembly plant for one week beginning Monday because of slow sales . 
The plant builds chassis for recreational vehicles 
`` I think you 'll see share prices go down 
The pound immediately began to take a buffetting 
At 15 % , base interest rates are the highest in eight years 
Yesterday , even before the resignations were announced , the index dove 32.5 points to close at 2129.4 
London-based LIT Holdings , the largest financer of traders in the Chicago options and futures markets , said yesterday it will incur a second-half loss as a result of the market plunge . 
The company , which also will omit its second-half dividend , did n't specify the size . 
The price plummeted 
The malaise has created a nostalgic longing for the uncomplicated days of the mid-1980s , before a rash of securities-firm mergers on the eve of the industry 's deregulation in 1986 . 
The mergers and acquisitions market has been a saving grace for the industry 
Intra-European takeovers are expected to continue at their brisk pace . 
But investment bankers say that stock market uncertainties in the U.S. may cause many European companies to mark time before bidding for American companies , in the hope that share prices will come down 
`` If prices in the States go down , industrial buyers in Europe have the opportunity of getting reasonable prices in the 
`` If prices in the States go down , industrial buyers in Europe have the opportunity of getting reasonable prices in the U.S. , '' says Francois von Hurter , chief of Continential M&A at Credit Suisse First Boston Ltd . 
He did n't stop 
`` The percentage of your day spent twiddling your thumbs got greater 
My wife and I will stay through the skiing season 
Not a great deal . 
Analysts said the move could presage even harsher action by the banks . 
But any move by the banks to take over Qintex Australia 's management could threaten its ability to operate its national television network under Australian broadcast license rules . 
The Qintex group 's problems began in earnest in March , when Mr. Skase agreed to buy MGM\/UA Communications Co . 
The government is sharpening its newest weapon against white-collar defendants : the power to prevent them from paying their legal bills . 
And defense lawyers are warning that they wo n't stick around 
The issue has come to a boil in Newark , N.J. , where federal prosecutors have warned lawyers for Eddie Antar that if the founder and former chairman of Crazy Eddie Inc. is indicted , the government may move to seize the money that Mr. Antar is using to pay legal fees 
If the government succeeds in seizing Mr. Antar 's assets , he could be left without top-flight legal representation 
If the government succeeds in seizing Mr. Antar 's assets , he could be left without top-flight legal representation , because his attorneys are likely to quit , according to individuals familiar with the case 
If the government succeeds in seizing Mr. Antar 's assets , he could be left without top-flight legal representation , because his attorneys are likely to quit , according to individuals familiar with the case . 
`` The people who suffer in the short run are defendants 
`` The people who suffer in the short run are defendants , but the people who suffer in the long run are all of the people 
According to individuals familiar with Mr. Antar 's case , prosecutors issued their warning this week 
Prosecutors have told Mr. Antar 's attorneys that they believe Mr. Antar 's allegedly ill-gotten gains are so great that any money he has used to pay attorneys derives from illegal activities . 
Therefore , they said , the money can be taken from the lawyers 
Mr. Alito said his office `` just responded to an attorney 's question about whether we would go after attorney 's fees 
Mr. Alito said his office `` just responded to an attorney 's question about whether we would go after attorney 's fees , and that is different from actually doing it 
According to department policy , prosecutors must make a strong showing that lawyers ' fees came from assets tainted by illegal profits 
According to department policy , prosecutors must make a strong showing that lawyers ' fees came from assets tainted by illegal profits before any attempts at seizure are made . 
Still , criminal defense lawyers worry that defendants are being deprived of their Sixth Amendment right to counsel and a fair trial 
Still , criminal defense lawyers worry that defendants are being deprived of their Sixth Amendment right to counsel and a fair trial if the government can seize lawyers ' fees . 
They also worry that if the government applies asset-forfeiture laws broadly , the best defense lawyers will be unwilling to take criminal cases unless they are assured of being paid 
They also worry that if the government applies asset-forfeiture laws broadly , the best defense lawyers will be unwilling to take criminal cases 
Since , like earthquakes , stock market disturbances will always be with us , it is prudent to take all possible precautions against another such market collapse 
In general , markets function well and adjust smoothly to changing economic and financial circumstances . 
But there are times when they seize up 
As the market tumbled , disorderly market conditions prevailed : The margins between buying bids and selling bids widened ; trading in many stocks was suspended ; orders took unduly long to be executed ; and many specialists stopped trading altogether 
As the market tumbled , disorderly market conditions prevailed : The margins between buying bids and selling bids widened ; trading in many stocks was suspended ; orders took unduly long to be executed 
As the market tumbled , disorderly market conditions prevailed : The margins between buying bids and selling bids widened ; trading in many stocks was suspended ; orders took unduly long to be executed ; and many specialists stopped trading altogether . 
These failures in turn contributed to the fall in the market averages : Uncertainty extracted an extra risk premium 
His skis spread farther and farther apart 
After the 1987 crash , and as a result of the recommendations of many studies , `` circuit breakers '' were devised to allow market participants to regroup and restore orderly market conditions . 
In the additional time they provide even more order imbalances might pile up 
It 's doubtful , though , whether circuit breakers do any real good . 
It lent money to banks and encouraged them to make funds available to brokerage houses . 
In 1987 , it pumped billions into the markets through open market operations and the discount window . It lent money to banks and encouraged them to make funds available to brokerage houses . They , in turn , lent money to their customers -- who were supposed to recognize the opportunity to make a profit in the turmoil and buy shares . 
The Fed also has the power to set margin requirements . 
Instead of flooding the entire economy with liquidity 
Instead of flooding the entire economy with liquidity , and thereby increasing the danger of inflation , the Fed could support the stock market directly by buying market averages in the futures market 
More carefully targeted intervention might actually reduce the need for government action . 
It would be inappropriate for the government or the central bank to buy or sell IBM or General Motors shares . 
Disorderly market conditions could be observed quite frequently in foreign exchange markets in the 1960s and 1970s . 
But since the member countries of the International Monetary Fund agreed to the `` Guidelines to Floating '' in 1974 , such difficulties have been avoided 
But since the member countries of the International Monetary Fund agreed to the `` Guidelines to Floating '' in 1974 , such difficulties have been avoided . 
The old saying advises : `` If it ai n't broke , do n't fix it 
The old saying advises : `` If it ai n't broke , do n't fix it . '' 
But this could be a case where we all might go broke 
`` It would be damaging to industry and to the financial sector in general , to say nothing of banks 
His remarks were distributed to the press 
Mr. Leigh-Pemberton reiterated that the exposure of United Kingdom banks to leveraged deals have n't yet reached `` worrying levels . '' 
Intel Corp. 's most powerful computer chip has flaws that could delay several computer makers ' marketing efforts 
Computer experts familiar with the flaws , found in Intel 's 80486 chip , say the defects do n't affect the average user and are likely to be cleared up 
On Friday , Intel began notifying customers about the bugs which cause the chip to give wrong answers for some mathematical calculations . 
But while International Business Machines Corp. and Compaq Computer Corp. say the bugs will delay products , most big computer makers said the flaws do n't affect them 
`` These bugs do n't affect our schedule at all , '' he said . 
But while International Business Machines Corp. and Compaq Computer Corp. say the bugs will delay products , most big computer makers said the flaws do n't affect them . 
`` You can do that 
Compaq , which said it discovered the bugs , still plans to announce new 486 products on Nov. 6 . 
That 's a break from Compaq tradition 
That 's a break from Compaq tradition , because the company does n't announce products 
The problem is being ballyhooed 
Intel 's microprocessors are the chips of choice in many of today 's personal computers 
`` Although these sorts of bugs are not at all uncommon , the 486 is an extremely high-profile product 
Intel clocks the chip 's speed at 15 million instructions per second , or MIPs . 
But while the chip 's speed in processing power is dazzling , it 's real strength lies in its software inheritance 
The 486 is the descendant of a long series of Intel chips that began dominating the market 
Big personal computer makers and many makers of engineering workstations are developing 486-based machines , which are expected to reach the market early next year . 
While the joint venture affects only a small part of Bethlehem 's operations , it is significant 
While the joint venture affects only a small part of Bethlehem 's operations , it is significant 
`` It 's important to share the risk and even more so 
Bethlehem had little choice but to go with a European steelmaker 
Bethlehem Steel Corp. has agreed in principle to form a joint venture with the world 's second-largest steelmaker , Usinor-Sacilor of France , to modernize a portion of Bethlehem 's ailing BethForge division . 
Once the consolidation is complete , Bethlehem plans to concentrate its forgings business on nuclear fabrication , hardened steel and large-diameter steel rolls for rolling mills and selected custom-die applications 
If you 're still wondering about the causes of the slump in the junk-bond market , consider the case of Columbia Savings & Loan 
Well , when Congress in its recent S&L bailout mandated that the thrifts sell off all their junk-bond holdings by 1994 , it not only artificially increased the supply of these bonds in the market but also eliminated one of the few profitable investments thrifts have made 
Well , when Congress in its recent S&L bailout mandated that the thrifts sell off all their junk-bond holdings by 1994 , it not only artificially increased the supply of these bonds in the market 
Well , when Congress in its recent S&L bailout mandated that the thrifts sell off all their junk-bond holdings by 1994 , it not only artificially increased the supply of these bonds in the market but also eliminated one of the few profitable investments thrifts have made . 
Now , we regard this as a largely phony issue 
Now , we regard this as a largely phony issue 
It turns out that Columbia had this huge loss 
The reality of life in modern America is that if you want to wreck something that works , let it fall into the hands of Congress 
Most of the 300 employees at the oil company 's midtown headquarters building -- including much of senior management -- were unaware of the plan 
The shift wo n't affect operations . 
Mobil Corp. is in the process of vacating its headquarters here 
`` We are dismayed 
New York authorities , informed yesterday about the move , reacted with concern and even some anger to the idea of the nation 's third-largest corporation leaving without giving them an opportunity to accommodate it . 
City officials there had been were aware that a large company was moving in 
`` When we were told it was Exxon , it was beyond all expectations 
Until the building is completed , Exxon will rent part of an existing office tower 
The company wo n't say how much it will save 
Exxon officials said it will cost less to run its headquarters at Las Colinas than in New York . 
In Texas , taxes and development costs are also lower , they said . Exxon officials said it will cost less to run its headquarters at Las Colinas than in New York . 
Canadian production of market pulp rose 1 % in September from a year earlier 
IMA Holdings Corp. completed its $ 3 billion acquisition of American Medical International Inc. , purchasing 63 million shares , or 86 % , of the Los Angeles-based health-care services concern for $ 26.50 a share . 
In March , American Medical received a $ 24-a-share offer to take the company private from an investor group including large holder M. Lee Pearce . 
It received more offers 
It received more offers , but the auction was surprisingly won by IMA , which bid $ 28 a share and asked Mr. Gilleland to stay on as an equity participant . 
Then , after extending its offer four times waiting for a congressional tax ruling , IMA early this month lowered its offer to $ 26.50 a share amid turbulence in the junk bond market 
American Medical accepted the offer 
American Medical accepted the offer , meanwhile indicating it had heard from two other suitors . 
But they never materialized 
Mr. Breeden contended that discretionary power could have an impact on the markets 
Mr. Breeden contended that discretionary power could have an impact on the markets if rumors were to circulate about when the exchanges might be closed . He added that the president already has the power to close the markets in an emergency . 
Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady said that Congress should grant the Securities and Exchange Commission the power to close the stock markets in periods of crisis . 
`` This raises questions whether futures and equity margin requirements are consistent at these levels 
`` This raises questions whether futures and equity margin requirements are consistent at these levels and whether futures margins are adequate , '' Mr. Brady said . 
Asked whether there is anything Congress should do to curb the LBO boom , Mr. Brady responded , `` I think the LBO phenomenon , -LRB- while -RRB- it wo n't stop completely , will be a thing of the past 
Before taking any action , he advised the panel to `` see what the market has produced as a cure 
Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady said that Congress should grant the Securities and Exchange Commission the power to close the stock markets in periods of crisis . Mr. Brady also said he expects the leveraged buy-out phenomenon to `` end under -LRB- its -RRB- own weight . '' Separately , Mr. Brady said he asked the Working Group on Financial Markets to determine whether futures margins are too low . 
Mr. Brady also agreed with senators ' concerns about recent stock-market volatility , and said he realizes that the gyrations are scaring investors from investing in stocks . 
`` I do not have a view of whether we should do anything about program trading at this time , '' he said . 
That bill , proposed by the SEC last year , would require brokerage firms to disclose the financial positions of their holding companies , mandate large traders ' reporting of program or block trades , and improve clearing and settlement of trades between the futures and stock markets . 
The proposed legislation has a laudable goal : to assure the integrity of the U.S. futures markets . 
The complex bill , introduced by Sens. Patrick Leahy -LRB- D. , Vt. -RRB- , Richard Lugar -LRB- R. , Ind. -RRB- , and Bob Kerrey -LRB- D. , Neb. -RRB- , covers a wide range of provisions that would affect the funding and authority of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and would profoundly change the way the industry is regulated . 
Many aspects of the bill are salutary , providing appropriate public safeguards that can and should be instituted throughout the industry . 
Many aspects of the bill are salutary , providing appropriate public safeguards that can and should be instituted throughout the industry . 
We would be delighted to have such a system in place today . 
All foreign markets are aggressively courting U.S. business . 
Faced with the virtually impossible task of supervising the execution of each trade , many commodity brokerage firms are likely to stop doing business with independents 
One section of the bill would make all commodity brokerage firms and floor brokers liable for damages without willful misconduct . Another measure makes commodity brokerage firms liable for violations committed by independent floor brokers who execute trades for them . 
Finally , under the bill , a number of legitimate , longstanding business practices would be arbitrarily banned 
Finally , under the bill , a number of legitimate , longstanding business practices would be arbitrarily banned , unless the CFTC were to take specific and timely action to permit them to continue . 
The affected practices include the placing of oral orders , which is the way most public customer orders are placed , and trading between affiliated brokers 
The affected practices include the placing of oral orders , which is the way most public customer orders are placed , and trading between affiliated brokers , even though in some cases trading with affiliates may be the only way to obtain the best execution for a client . 
All U.S. futures exchanges agree that these and other trading practices require proper regulation and supervision . 
Nonetheless , each has too much potential value to the system to be banned by legislative fiat 
When problems surface , the temptation becomes strong to summarily overhaul a market system that has served for more than 100 years 
On the hungry streets of Naguib Mahfouz 's Cairo , life is nasty , brutish and wickedly entertaining . 
Mr. Mahfouz 's Cairo also has Sufi sheiks and saintly wives who look to God , not crime , for their salvation . 
Three novels , `` The Beginning and the End '' -LRB- 412 pages , $ 19.95 -RRB- , `` The Thief and the Dogs '' -LRB- 158 pages , $ 16.95 -RRB- , and `` Wedding Song '' -LRB- 174 pages , $ 16.95 -RRB- , recently published by Doubleday offer an uneven sample of the 77-year-old Mr. Mahfouz 's talent . 
But they do show the range of a restless intellect whose 30-odd novels span five decades and include work of social realism , protest and allegory . 
`` The Beginning and the End , '' easily the best of the three , belongs to Mr. Mahfouz 's `` realistic '' period 
His daughter turns to dressmaking 
One son sacrifices his own career 
One son sacrifices his own career so that his avaricious brother can succeed 
A minor bureaucrat dies suddenly , dooming his family to poverty and eventual disgrace . 
Mourning for the father is overshadowed by the shame of burying him in a pauper 's grave . The family moves to another house at night to conceal shabby belongings from neighbors . 
As a critique of middle-class mores , the story is heavy-handed . 
We see , smell and hear slums filled with `` the echoes of hawkers advertising their wares interspersed with abusive language , rattling coughs and the sound of people gathering spittle in their throats and spewing into the street . '' 
Hassan comes to a bad end 
If the setting is exotic , the prose is closer to Balzac 's `` Pere Goriot '' than it is to `` Arabian Nights 
Mr. Mahfouz began writing 
Mr. Mahfouz began writing when there was no novelistic tradition in Arabic 
In one sense , this limits him ; unlike a writer such as Gabriel Garcia Marquez , who has a distinctive Latin voice , Mr. Mahfouz 's style offers little that can be labeled `` Egyptian . '' 
In one sense , this limits him ; unlike a writer such as Gabriel Garcia Marquez , who has a distinctive Latin voice , Mr. Mahfouz 's style offers little that can be labeled `` Egyptian . '' 
But the familiarity of his style also makes his work accessible 
`` I am the hope and the dream , the redemption of cowards , '' he says in one of many interior monologues . 
By 1961 , Mr. Mahfouz 's idealism had vanished or become twisted , as it has in Said . 
While the theme is compelling , the plot and characters are not 
`` The Thief and the Dogs '' is a pioneering work , the first stream-of-consciousness novel in Arabic 
`` The Thief and the Dogs '' is a pioneering work , the first stream-of-consciousness novel in Arabic , but it is likely to disappoint Western readers . 
The story of a playwright 's stage debut unfolds in first-person monologues , in the manner of Faulkner 's `` The Sound and the Fury . '' 
Buried in the work is a meditation on the morality of art , and on the struggle for integrity in an unfair world . 
The clutter of the 1940s remains 
The clutter of the 1940s remains , but its color has drained away 
Characters complain ceaselessly about food queues , prices and corruption . 
Norwood has made `` no detailed plans 
Norwood is controlled by Daniel L. Barnett and Paul A. Reese , both officers of Boston-based Oasis Capital Management Inc. , a small Boston money management firm . 
The tentative agreement provides for wage increases of 85 cents an hour retroactive to Sept. 25 , 1989 , and for increases of 19 cents , 70 cents and 35 cents an hour effective Jan. 1 , 1991 , 1992 and 1993 , respectively . 
Jack Kemp wants to abolish it . 
HUD has no paper work whatsoever on 30 of the projects , none of the others has been approved 
HUD has no paper work whatsoever on 30 of the projects , none of the others has been approved and not a single congressional hearing has been held on any of them . 
Of course , this kind of blatant congressional pork-barreling is called `` constituent service '' by Members 
The 40 pet projects were discovered buried in the appropriations bill for HUD and some other agencies 
They are often closed to the public 
We had intercepted during the year an estimated $ 5 billion street value of cocaine . The GNP of the Bahamas is probably somewhere between one and two billion dollars . 
The efforts to get to the people who are addicted , try to rehabilitate them ; if they can not be rehabilitated , at least to contain them 
The efforts to get to the people who are addicted , try to rehabilitate them ; if they can not be rehabilitated , at least to contain them ; to educate people , to strongly discourage use of drugs by people who are casual users and first users , to stop this process among the young -- all of these things I think are extremely important . 
But , I have to tell you that it seems to me that the conceptual base of the current program is flawed 
We designed a comprehensive program 
You 're looking at a guy whose motorcade was attacked in Bolivia by the drug terrorists 
It seems to me we 're not really going to get anywhere 
When you do that you wipe out the criminal incentives , including , I might say , the incentive that the drug pushers have to go around and get kids addicted , so that they create a market for themselves 
When you do that you wipe out the criminal incentives , including , I might say , the incentive that the drug pushers have to go around and get kids addicted 
They wo n't have that incentive 
But , I have to tell you that it seems to me that the conceptual base of the current program is flawed and the program is not likely to work . 
If I am catching your attention 
Sometimes at a reception or cocktail party I advance these views 
I know that I 'm shouting into the breeze here as far as what we 're doing now . 
But I feel that if somebody does n't get up and start talking about this now , the next time around , when we have the next iteration of these programs , it will still be true that everyone is scared to talk about it 
Personal spending , buoyed by a burst of automobile buying , was the main catalyst to the economy 's expansion . 
Imports of goods and services soared 
Although the economy showed no change of pace from the second quarter , many analysts expect it to slow considerably in the fourth quarter 
Although the economy showed no change of pace from the second quarter , many analysts expect it to slow considerably in the fourth quarter 
Many economists think the rise in the value of the U.S. dollar this year will further crimp progress in trade 
Many economists think the rise in the value of the U.S. dollar this year will further crimp progress in trade , because it makes exports more expensive and imports cheaper . 
Much of the moderation came from declining energy prices , which have since turned up a bit , analysts said . 
Consequently , Michael Darby , undersecretary for economic affairs at the Commerce Department , said inflation probably will edge up from the third-quarter rate in the final three months of 1989 . 
Generally , the Bush administration expressed satisfaction with the economy 's progress 
Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady called the 2.5 % pace `` good , solid growth 
He added : `` Inflation is lower than I think people expected it to be 
Generally , the Bush administration expressed satisfaction with the economy 's progress as it heads into its eighth year of sustained growth next month . 
`` I ca n't believe it will continue , '' he added , noting that the economies of the country 's major trading partners are strong 
But administration officials were concerned over the bleak trade report , which showed the deficit in the country 's trade of goods and services swelling to a $ 74 billion annual rate in the third quarter from a $ 51 billion rate in the second quarter . 
While a buildup of these stocks adds to GNP , it can hurt the economy 
While a buildup of these stocks adds to GNP , it can hurt the economy 
`` I do n't think it 's anything that 's going to cause a downturn in economic activity . 
Devastation from Hurricane Hugo , which slammed into the Southeast coast in late September , diminished personal income by about $ 4 billion 
The contract provides additional equipment for Northrop , the prime contractor on the missile 
From 1984 to 1987 , its earnings soared six-fold , to $ 3.8 million , on a seven-fold increase in revenue , to $ 44.1 million . 
Unlike larger contractors with a broad enough base to weather the downturn easily , these companies are suffering big drops in business 
As their varied strategies suggest , there is more than one way to respond to a disaster 
After quadrupling annual earnings over four years to $ 6.8 million in 1988 , the Fairfax , Va. , company , posted a 23 % drop in earnings for this year 's first half 
While the SDI anti-missile program recently awarded W.J. Schafer two contracts totaling $ 13.4 million , ERC 's chairman and founder , Jack Aalseth , says he bought the company `` more for its technology than its customer 
As orders for its aircraft and submarine parts dwindled , three years of steady growth ended with a 69 % drop in income in this year 's first half 
The company hit on a new strategy : If the Defense Department is so intent on saving money , why not make money off that trend 
Among the company 's current efforts : repairing old parts at 25 % of the cost of replacing them . 
UNC also is selling new parts , if needed , directly to the military instead of through a prime contractor 
At as little as one-third of the government 's cost , the company is running a program to train Army helicopter pilots . 
In another approach , tiny Iverson Technology is trying to resume its growth by braving the new world of commercial products . 
QuesTech Inc. , Falls Church , Va. , also has acquired some companies outside the military market . 
`` It was our first acquisition 
A one-time write-off for booking nonexistent revenue was partly to blame 
The company not only merged three military-electronics manufacturing operations 
`` I would n't say we 're out of the business . 
He was arrested , though not indicted , on at least three other occasions in the '60s and '70s : for assault and unlawful confinement , for fraud and forgery of private documents , and for extortion 
Christies says it has had no contact with Mr. Morishita since the stock purchase 
Many of these financiers lend freely , often without demanding collateral . 
In describing that business in general , he says that when the client ca n't repay the loan , some machikin `` clutch on like hyenas '' and even take over the client 's company 
Acquired from Carisbrook Holdings U.K. Ltd. , a company owned by Australian financier Robert Holmes a Court , the stake was apparently the first of its kind for Aska , an entity separate from Aichi . 
It 's not clear whether Aska plans to buy more shares . 
Mr. Morishita 's main business certainly appears to be thriving 
That is 
The Tokyo Regional Taxation Office declines to comment 
The small , wiry Mr. Morishita comes across as an outspoken man of the world . 
But when asked what exactly he does in business , he immediately takes offense 
Not many people know the details of Mr. Morishita 's business 
When a small company goes belly-up , for instance , the gossipy weekly magazines are often quick to link the demise with Aichi 
Not many people know the details of Mr. Morishita 's business , but it 's a source of rumors about shady dealings . 
He spends most weekends flying his helicopter to one of his nine courses , he says , two of which were designed by Jack Nicklaus . 
Although he says he was n't keen on going , last year he attended a New York gala where his daughter made her debut 
The gruff financier recently started socializing in upper-class circles . 
Although Mr. Morishita says little about his business , he offers one rule to success : Never gamble too far 
`` Who knows , '' he says , `` if he heard that soybeans make money today , he might be flying out to Chicago tomorrow 
MTM is a unit of British-based TVS Entertainment PLC , whose chief executive officer , James Gatward , will oversee the company 
The Los Angeles-based bank holding company disclosed last Friday that it had taken a huge $ 350 million provision for loan losses at the Arizona bank , the result of the state 's worsening real-estate market . 
In yesterday 's report , First Interstate said its bank in Texas also reported a loss of $ 23.5 million for the quarter . 
But it said that its consumer banks in Oregon , California , Nevada and Washington performed well during the quarter 
Private-sector union contracts signed in the third quarter granted slightly lower wage increases than those signed in the second quarter 
If this pattern continues , the Labor Department said , 1989 will be the first year that the measure has shown an increase since 1981 
The figures exclude lump-sum payments and cost-of-living adjustments 
`` When we started the program six years ago , the use of Filipino was deemed unwise by the predominantly middle class 
Resistance to a national language comes primarily from members of the country 's elite , who generally prefer English . 
But while better-off Filipinos are quick to cite the logic in using a language as widespread as English , they are often slow to reveal that they are prejudiced against Filipino 
Resistance to a national language comes primarily from members of the country 's elite , who generally prefer English . 
They argue that their own languages should have equal weight 
As they did 
As they did when the Philippines was a colony of the U.S. , teachers for the most part teach in English 
As they did when the Philippines was a colony of the U.S. , teachers for the most part teach in English , even though it is a foreign language for most Philippine children . 
When President Corazon Aquino , whose command of Filipino is spotty , announced last year that the language would be used in official communications , there was an uproar from many legislators 
When President Corazon Aquino , whose command of Filipino is spotty , announced last year that the language would be used in official communications , there was an uproar from many legislators , who continue to conduct debates mostly in English . 
With an audience totaling more than 400,000 , `` Batibot '' consistently ranks in the country 's top-four most-watched daytime programs . 
`` Batibot '' lacks the polish of `` Sesame Street . '' 
But the production is the equal of any local program . 
CMS ENERGY Corp. said management would recommend to its board today that its common stock dividend be reinstated at a `` modest level '' later this year . 
The in-home health care services provider said it will sell 1.8 million of the new shares 
Bostik is the first Emhart Corp. unit to be sold as part of the power-tool manufacturer 's effort to reduce debt and consolidate operations 
The move significantly expanded Black & Decker 's product line 
Earlier this year , Black & Decker put three Emhart businesses on the auction block : the information and electronics segment , the Dynapert electrical assembly business and Mallory Capacitors . 
In addition , Black & Decker had said it would sell two other undisclosed Emhart operations 
`` Our divestiture program is on schedule 
The company 's stock plunged 
Ever since the bad days of Big is Bad antitrust enforcement , this law has required that anyone proposing a merger must make a filing describing the effects on all relevant markets 
Ever since the bad days of Big is Bad antitrust enforcement , this law has required that anyone proposing a merger must make a filing describing the effects on all relevant markets . 
The Hart-Scott filing is then reviewed 
One especially dangerous aspect to the new tax would be that the proceeds will be used to increase the budgets of the antitrust division at Justice and the Federal Trade Commission . 
Mr. Fournier said that as Navigation Mixte chairman , he is prohibited by takeover regulations from organizing his own defense or doing anything besides managing current company business . 
If holders avoid tendering to Paribas , he added , they can expect strong dividends again next year 
Analysts noted that over the past 20 years , Mr. Fournier has built his company through astute stock-market activity and has warded off at least three takeover attempts . 
Paribas still needs the go-ahead from the Commission des Operations de Bourse , a government regulatory agency 
If holders avoid tendering to Paribas , he added , they can expect strong dividends again next year . 
Mr. Fournier also noted that Navigation Mixte joined Paribas 's core of shareholders 
Once he realized that Paribas 's intentions were n't friendly , he said , but before the bid was launched , he sought approval to boost his Paribas stake above 10 % 
Once he realized that Paribas 's intentions were n't friendly , he said , but before the bid was launched , he sought approval to boost his Paribas stake above 10 % 
The petition is still pending 
Mr. Fournier said the large institutions that hold nearly 50 % of Navigation Mixte 's capital all strongly support him 
Mr. Fournier said the large institutions that hold nearly 50 % of Navigation Mixte 's capital all strongly support him , but some analysts said they are n't so sure . 
Paribas says it will offer 1,850 francs -LRB- $ 296.95 -RRB- each for Navigation Mixte shares that enjoy full dividend rights , and 1,800 francs each for a block of shares issued July 1 , which will receive only partial dividends this year . 
The zero-coupon subordinated notes have no periodic interest payments . Each note is being offered at $ 308.32 per $ 1,000 principal amount at maturity , representing an 8 % yield to maturity . 
In a study of 250 of the nation 's richest companies , the group found that only seven managed to avoid paying federal income taxes last year compared with 40 in 1986 , the last year the old tax rules were in effect , and 16 in 1987 , when some of the new tax provisions went into effect . 
The report , released yesterday , comes 
The report , released yesterday , comes as Congress is considering a number of special tax breaks 
In the corporate realm , the 1986 law abolished the investment-tax credit , scaled back use of an accounting method that allowed large contractors to defer taxes 
In the corporate realm , the 1986 law abolished the investment-tax credit , scaled back use of an accounting method that allowed large contractors to defer taxes until a project was completed and strengthened the so-called alternative minimum tax , a levy to ensure all money-making businesses pay some federal tax . 
`` Tax reform is working , '' the study said . `` Under the new tax-reform law , the days of widespread , wholesale corporate tax avoidance have come to an end . '' 
Still , Kroger Co. , Pinnacle West Capital Corp. , CSX Corp. , Illinois Power Co. , Media General Inc. , Santa Fe Southern Pacific Corp. and Gulf States Utilities Co. , did n't pay any federal income tax last year 
Still , Kroger Co. , Pinnacle West Capital Corp. , CSX Corp. , Illinois Power Co. , Media General Inc. , Santa Fe Southern Pacific Corp. and Gulf States Utilities Co. , did n't pay any federal income tax last year although they garnered a total of $ 1.2 billion in profits , the group said . 
Earlier reports , which revealed that as many as 73 companies were avoiding income tax legally , have been credited with helping galvanize efforts to overhaul the tax code . 
But even though companies are paying more taxes , many are still paying less than the statutory rate 
But even though companies are paying more taxes , many are still paying less than the statutory rate , the report said . 
`` While the overall picture is very encouraging , significant corporate tax avoidance continues 
In search of buyers for upscale department-store chains such as Bloomingdale 's and Saks Fifth Avenue , investment bankers are turning to -- who else ? The Japanese . 
`` We have the money to buy . 
The Japanese have watched the Europeans and Canadians stumble in the U.S. market 
Japanese retail executives say the main reason they are reluctant to jump into the fray in the U.S. is that -- unlike manufacturing -- retailing is extremely sensitive to local cultures and life styles . 
Japanese department stores are also wary of attracting negative publicity . After Sony Corp. 's recent headline-grabbing acquisition of Columbia Pictures , many say it makes good political sense to lie low . 
Britain 's B.A.T Industries PLC is trying to unwind its U.S. retailing operations , which include such well-known stores as Saks Fifth Avenue , Marshall Field 's , Breuners and Ivey 's . 
`` Every department store in Japan is taking a look , '' says Mike Allen , a retail analyst at Barclay 's de Zoete Wedd Securities -LRB- Japan -RRB- Ltd . 
Mr. Allen , however , does n't think that Japan is about to embark on a major buying binge . 
Nonetheless , speculation heated up yesterday when Tokyu Department Store Co. confirmed a report in Nihon Keizai Shimbun , Japan 's leading business daily , that Tokyu is talking with Campeau about buying Bloomingdale 's . 
Nonetheless , speculation heated up yesterday when Tokyu Department Store Co. confirmed a report in Nihon Keizai Shimbun , Japan 's leading business daily , that Tokyu is talking with Campeau about buying Bloomingdale 's . 
Seven Japanese department-store groups were approached by investment bankers representing Bloomingdale 's chairman , Marvin Traub 
Federated ran into a cash crunch 
`` When you look at the economics , Traub needs a Japanese and a European partner to make it work 
First they set up overseas merchandising offices to import items and track new fashion trends . 
Last March , Isetan invested 1.5 billion yen -LRB- $ 10.6 million -RRB- in a venture with Barney 's Inc. , an up-scale New York specialty clothier . 
Eiji Nakazato , a Takashimaya general manager , admits that his company 's image is similar to Saks 's 
Eiji Nakazato , a Takashimaya general manager , admits that his company 's image is similar to Saks 's and that there is some interest in the idea . 
`` We 'd like to do business in America , '' he says . 
It said the regular 1988 deficit amounted to $ 43.5 million , based on revenue of $ 74.4 million and expenses of $ 117.9 million . 
Council member Cardinal Gerald Carter of Toronto told Vatican Radio : `` Now that we say we covered our deficit this year , people are going to relax and say well that 's fine , the Holy See is out of the hole 
Council member Cardinal Gerald Carter of Toronto told Vatican Radio : `` Now that we say we covered our deficit this year , people are going to relax and say well that 's fine , the Holy See is out of the hole . 
Chinese officials are trying to use the Canton Trade Fair to lure back overseas traders after the bloody crackdown on dissent . 
`` They are angry about the government 
Fair officials say that 21,000 guests visited during the first five days , a 10 % drop from the spring exhibition . 
Some lousy earnings reports whacked the stock market 
Some lousy earnings reports whacked the stock market , but bond prices fell only slightly 
Analysts have complained that third-quarter corporate earnings have n't been very good 
Compaq Computer nose-dived $ 8.625 a share , to $ 100 , and pulled other technology issues lower after reporting lower-than-expected earnings 
Later yesterday the nation 's major auto makers added to the gloom 
Although the government said the economy grew an estimated 2.5 % in the third quarter , in line with expectations , analysts are increasingly predicting much more sluggish growth -- and therefore more corporate earnings disappointments -- for the fourth quarter 
While bond investors would have preferred growth to be a little slower , they were cheered by inflation measures in the data that showed prices rising at a modest annual rate of 2.9 % 
The 249-166 roll call came 
An estimated $ 40 million would come annually from a new $ 20,000 charge on pre-merger notifications to the Justice Department 
`` If you 're for paying the claims ... I do n't know how anyone can oppose this 
No payments would be made this year 
No payments would be made this year , but beginning in fiscal 1991 , the bill commits the government to annual payments of as much as $ 500 million 
As much as Republicans led the opposition , among the 53 Democrats voting against treating the payments as an entitlement , 42 came from the 13 states in the Old Dixiecrat South and its borders 
The odd mix of departments in the underlying bill makes it one of the more eclectic of the annual appropriations measures 
The measure provides $ 321 million to maintain services but would sharply curb the power of the current board 
The conservative bent of the incumbent appointees , named by former President Reagan , has divided Republicans . 
The estimated $ 40 million from the new pre-merger notification fee would be divided between the Justice Department 's Antitrust Division and the Federal Trade Commission , which both face serious cuts 
The Federal Bureau of Investigation is slated to receive $ 30 million by charging for fingerprint services in civil cases 
The $ 17.2 billion total for the bill does n't include an estimated $ 1.2 billion in supplemental anti-drug funds approved by the House-Senate conference yesterday 
The House agreed to defer for a year a scheduled 50 % increase in the required state matching funds for law-enforcement grants 
When a House-Senate conference on yesterday 's bill rescinded $ 11.8 million in unexpended funds for a Fort Worth , Texas , economic development project backed by former Speaker James Wright , Sen. Phil Gramm -LRB- R. , Texas -RRB- insisted last week that the money be preserved 
The measure includes $ 2 million secured by Mr. Rudman for a marine-research project at the University of New Hampshire 
The Big Three U.S. auto makers posted losses in their core North American automotive businesses for the third quarter 
The bleak automotive results were offset by strong earnings from some non-automotive operations . 
GM 's common closed at $ 44.375 a share , down 50 cents , Ford fell 37.5 cents to end at $ 47.50 
As Japanese auto makers gained market share , the Big Three , with GM in the lead , slashed North American production and launched a retail discounting blitz 
The price war peaked in the third quarter as Big Three factory discounts climbed to more than $ 1,000 a vehicle , according to industry officials 
As Japanese auto makers gained market share , the Big Three , with GM in the lead , slashed North American production and launched a retail discounting blitz . 
But the costly efforts did little to slow Japanese market gains 
But the costly efforts did little to slow Japanese market gains , and domestic car sales have plunged 19 % 
If sales do n't pick up , the cuts will go deeper and incentives will sprout again 
If sales do n't pick up , the cuts will go deeper 
The U.S. automotive loss was a sharp reversal for a company that had reeled off 12 consecutive quarters of improved earnings until the 1989 second quarter . 
But David N. McCammon , vice president , finance , insisted that cost-cutting and tight production capacity will make results `` better in this downturn than in prior downturns , '' when Ford had net losses . 
Still , Mr. McCammon said Ford expects the U.S. economy to weaken through the end of 1990 , causing weaker sales and production . 
As a result , fourth-quarter profit will come in below 1988 results 
He said the loss was n't `` that much different '' from Ford 's $ 37 million loss on U.S. automotive operations 
Detroit-based GM does n't issue separate quarterly earnings for the North American automotive business . 
An 8.5 % drop in North American factory sales of cars and trucks cut into revenue 
Heavy losses in North American auto operations sent GM 's net tumbling to $ 516.9 million from a record $ 859.2 million . 
An 8.5 % drop in North American factory sales of cars and trucks cut into revenue , and rebates to dealers and customers more than offset gains from price increases on 1990 model vehicles delivered during the period , a GM spokesman said . 
In one breakdown , GM attributed half of its net to its two big technology units , Electronic Data Systems Corp. and GM Hughes Electronics Corp . 
This cushion could come in handy 
That means it 's unlikely the company will surpass last year 's $ 4.9 billion full-year profit 
`` Measure for Measure '' is one of Shakespeare 's `` problem '' plays , so named 
Last season , Hartford Stage director Mark Lamos mounted a production at Lincoln Center 
When Angelo hears that the young man Claudio has made his fiancee pregnant before he could marry her , Angelo summarily condemns Claudio to death 
When Angelo hears that the young man Claudio has made his fiancee pregnant 
When , however , Claudio 's sister , Isabella , a novitiate in a convent , goes to Angelo to plead her brother 's case , the obdurate ruler immediately falls in love with her and , in a supreme act of hypocrisy , demands that Isabella yield up her virtue to him in exchange for her brother 's life 
When Angelo hears that the young man Claudio has made his fiancee pregnant before he could marry her , Angelo summarily condemns Claudio to death . 
When , however , Claudio 's sister , Isabella , a novitiate in a convent , goes to Angelo to plead her brother 's case , the obdurate ruler immediately falls in love with her and , in a supreme act of hypocrisy , demands that Isabella yield up her virtue to him in exchange for her brother 's life . 
Meanwhile , the Duke , who set the original scheme in motion , appears on the scene disguised as a friar and becomes involved in a series of intrigues that has everyone fearing the worst possible outcome 
When the action requires , a prison cell , consisting of an enlarged wire cage , rolls forward on iron wheels on the platform 
When Isabella -LRB- Ellen Lauren -RRB- confronts her brother Claudio -LRB- Matt Loney -RRB- in his cell , explaining the price she has been asked to secure his freedom ; when Isabella and the disguised Duke -LRB- Philip Kerr -RRB- conspire to trick Angelo ; and when Mariana -LRB- Annalee Jefferies -RRB- , a woman wronged by Angelo , confronts him with his past misdeeds , the performers bring the dramatic high points to life with intense energy and intelligence 
When Isabella -LRB- Ellen Lauren -RRB- confronts her brother Claudio -LRB- Matt Loney -RRB- in his cell , explaining the price she has been asked to secure his freedom ; when Isabella and the disguised Duke -LRB- Philip Kerr -RRB- conspire to trick Angelo ; and when Mariana -LRB- Annalee Jefferies -RRB- , a woman wronged by Angelo , confronts him with his past misdeeds , the performers bring the dramatic high points to life with intense energy and intelligence 
When Isabella -LRB- Ellen Lauren -RRB- confronts her brother Claudio -LRB- Matt Loney -RRB- in his cell , explaining the price she has been asked to secure his freedom ; when Isabella and the disguised Duke -LRB- Philip Kerr -RRB- conspire to trick Angelo ; and when Mariana -LRB- Annalee Jefferies -RRB- , a woman wronged by Angelo , confronts him with his past misdeeds , the performers bring the dramatic high points to life with intense energy and intelligence 
When , however , he decides to be modern , or more accurately , when he decides to be trendy , the results are far less satisfactory 
At such moments Mr. Boyd makes it clear that he has the capacity to be a superior interpreter of Shakespeare . 
When , however , he decides to be modern 
When , however , he decides to be modern , or more accurately , when he decides to be trendy , the results are far less satisfactory 
It 's a valid approach 
When Claudio is arrested , he is brought on stage nude except for the manacles on his wrists and ankles 
When the opportunist Lucio -LRB- Jack Stehlin -RRB- visits the convent to inform Isabella of her brother 's fate , Lucio not only slaps the mother superior on her rear , but brings along a voluptuous companion -LRB- Jill Powell -RRB- , not in Shakespeare 's script , to undulate lasciviously 
When Claudio is arrested , he is brought on stage nude except for the manacles on his wrists and ankles . When the opportunist Lucio -LRB- Jack Stehlin -RRB- visits the convent to inform Isabella of her brother 's fate , Lucio not only slaps the mother superior on her rear , but brings along a voluptuous companion -LRB- Jill Powell -RRB- , not in Shakespeare 's script , to undulate lasciviously . 
The problem here is not in the concept but in its lack of discrimination . 
The problem here is not in the concept but in its lack of discrimination . 
Admittedly last season 's runaway hit , `` Steel Magnolias , '' helped a lot 
Only time will tell if Mr. Boyd can restore to the Alley the acclaim it received 
Only time will tell if Mr. Boyd can restore to the Alley the acclaim it received when its founder , Nina Vance , was at the height of her powers . 
Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell -LRB- D. , Maine -RRB- said he intends to use Senate procedures to force advocates of the tax cut to come up with at least 60 votes 
Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell -LRB- D. , Maine -RRB- said he intends to use Senate procedures to force advocates of the tax cut to come up with at least 60 votes before they can address the issue . 
`` The 60-vote requirement will be there 
GOP leaders continued to press for a vote on the amendment to the Eastern Europe aid measure . 
They accuse the Democrats of unfairly using Senate rules to erect a 60-vote hurdle . Democrats counter that the Republicans have often used the same rules to suit their own ends . 
Democrats asserted that the proposal , which also would create a new type of individual retirement account , was fraught with budget gimmickry that would lose billions of dollars in the long run 
The Packwood proposal would reduce the tax depending on how long an asset was held . 
The transaction , for cash and stock , would represent the biggest European takeover since 1980 for New York-based Marsh & McLennan , the world 's largest insurance broker . 
It 's also the first major sign of the long-awaited consolidation in the European insurance industry 
Earlier this year , New York Life Insurance Co. agreed to acquire Windsor Group Ltd. , a first step toward establishing a presence in the European market ahead of 1992 . 
But most U.S. insurers have n't rushed to change the way they do business in Europe 
Mr. Kiep said he sought the combination 
Mr. Kiep said he sought the combination because `` all our large clients in Germany are becoming European companies or multinational companies 
Furukawa said the U.S. market is strengthening 
The computer maker said net jumped to $ 87 million , or $ 2.02 a share , from $ 58 million , or $ 1.40 a share , a year earlier . Sales increased 36 % to $ 683 million from $ 502 million . 
Net for the nine months was $ 254 million , or $ 5.94 a share , up 56 % from $ 163 million , or $ 4.06 a share , a year earlier . 
Diversified Investment Group Inc. said it agreed to be acquired by Star States Corp. for stock valued at $ 13.75 a share , or about $ 24.4 million . 
The maker of water-treatment chemicals and equipment said it will select the plant site early next year 
Call Jim Wright 's office in downtown Fort Worth , Texas , these days 
Not all the scandal-tripped have enjoyed soft landings . 
As if he were still in his old job , Mr. Wright , by resigning with his title instead of being forced from his job , by law enjoys a $ 120,000 annual office expense allowance , three paid staffers , up to $ 67,000 for stationery and telephones and continued use of the franking privilege 
As if he were still in his old job , Mr. Wright , by resigning with his title instead of being forced from his job , by law enjoys a $ 120,000 annual office expense allowance , three paid staffers , up to $ 67,000 for stationery and telephones and continued use of the franking privilege . Not to mention a generous federal pension . 
Mr. Deaver confessed to his alcoholism during his trial on perjury charges . 
`` When someone says , ` I 've turned to God , ' everybody lays off 
`` When someone says , ` I 've turned to God , ' everybody lays off , '' observes Frank Mankiewicz , an old Washington hand and former aide to Robert Kennedy . 
Thus have Charles Colson and Jeb Magruder launched successful post-Watergate careers at the pulpit . 
After allegations surfaced in a 1985 divorce contest that he had beaten his wife , SEC enforcement chief John Fedders retreated to a Trappist monastery in rural Virginia 
He is now in solo law practice in Washington 
He is now in solo law practice in Washington , but his fees have been meager 
Declaring that there was life after Congress , he resigned 
Declaring that there was life after Congress , he resigned almost immediately after media reports questioned the propriety of a 1986 junk-bond investment 
Anne Burford , the former EPA chief who resigned under fire in 1983 during a flap with Congress , was kayoed in the confrontation 
It did n't help when , in 1986 , she was charged -LRB- and then cleared -RRB- on allegations of public drunkenness 
`` You could say she survived 
Rita Jenrette , the former wife of Abscam-indicted Rep. John Jenrette , has yet to hit it big in Hollywood 
Richard Secord , the retired Air Force general felled in the Iran-Contra scandal , is all but ruined -- forced to sell his Virginia home and pull his kids out of college , according to a recent fund-raising appeal sent out on his behalf . 
If Sex Is Involved , All Bets Are Off 
Sex scandals make people look careless and silly 
Sex scandals make people look careless and silly , and one of the worst sins in Washington is to be laughed at . 
Former Rep. Robert Bauman , a Maryland Republican who lost his seat in 1980 
If the political establishment is reluctant to forgive sexual misadventures , the private sector sometimes will 
When all else fails , Gucci Gulch -- the fabled halls of the Capitol inhabited by lobbyists and their imported shoes -- offers a welcome environment for fallen officials 
After a few weeks in seclusion , Mr. Mack opened a consulting firm 
After a few weeks in seclusion , Mr. Mack opened a consulting firm , but not to enable him to directly lobby ; that would require him to disclose his clients by registering as a lobbyist . 
One of the first people to come to the Deaver home 
Says Mr. Bauman : `` If things get really tough , I can always auction it off at Sotheby 's 
The expected Canadian move has been welcomed by the Bush administration 
Even though the U.S. also has supported Canadian membership , it has n't been a Washington priority 
Latin American countries have long urged Canada to join the OAS in the hopes that it would be a counterweight to the U.S. , which for many years tended to dominate the 32-nation organization . 
Canada , at times , could be an awkward OAS partner for the 
Larry Birns , director of the Washington-based Council on Hemispheric Affairs , a liberal research group , said that Latin American countries would be `` profoundly disappointed 
Cuba has been suspended from OAS membership 
Older movies have plenty of violence 
Older movies have plenty of violence , though it is portrayed in keeping with the more restrictive social conventions of the time . 
For example , one of my favorite movies is the 1949 British comedy `` Kind Hearts and Coronets , '' in which the entire comedy is based on actor Dennis Price 's murdering eight titled relatives -LRB- all played by Alec Guinness -RRB- 
For example , one of my favorite movies is the 1949 British comedy `` Kind Hearts and Coronets , '' in which the entire comedy is based on actor Dennis Price 's murdering eight titled relatives -LRB- all played by Alec Guinness -RRB- because they snubbed his mother and stand in the way of his acquiring the family title . 
As a fan of older movies from the 1920s on , I do not find modern comedies contain violence , sex and foul language to any greater degree than other recent movies . 
Keep in mind that this is the same movie in which a character is flattened by a steamroller only to pop right back up and peer in the window of a Boeing 747 -- from the outside 
Sex and violence are routinely included 
Sex and violence are routinely included even when they are irrelevant to the script 
Many modern scriptwriters seem to be incapable of writing drama , or anything else , without foul-mouthed cursing . Sex and violence are routinely included even when they are irrelevant to the script , and high-tech special effects are continually substituted for good plot and character development . 
In short , we have a movie and television industry that is either incapable or petrified of making a movie 
In short , we have a movie and television industry that is either incapable or petrified of making a movie unless it carries a PG-13 or R rating . 
Many modern scriptwriters seem to be incapable of writing drama , or anything else , without foul-mouthed cursing . Sex and violence are routinely included even when they are irrelevant to the script , and high-tech special effects are continually substituted for good plot and character development . In short , we have a movie and television industry that is either incapable or petrified of making a movie unless it carries a PG-13 or R rating . Hence copious amounts of gratuitous sex , violence and gutter language are included as a crutch . 
However , these faults are not the exclusive property of modern comedies 
However , these faults are not the exclusive property of modern comedies , and I believe Mr. Knight errs 
The Clarksburg , W.Va. , producer of gas and oil , said it wants shareholders to approve the split 
If approved at a shareholder meeting in December , the number of shares outstanding would decrease to five million from 50 million , and par value would rise to 10 cents from a penny 
If approved at a shareholder meeting in December , the number of shares outstanding would decrease to five million from 50 million 
Terms were n't disclosed 
Du Pont Co. reported that third-quarter profit grew a robust 19 % from a year ago on the strength of the company 's operations in various chemicals and fibers , and in petroleum . 
The profit gain was made despite a weakening in the housing market , for which the company is a supplier , and a strengthening in the dollar , which lowers the value of overseas earnings 
`` We have n't benefited the shareholder as much as we need to , '' said Edgar Woolard Jr. , Du Pont 's chairman and chief executive officer , in an interview 
The Wilmington , Del. , company reported net of $ 547 million , or $ 2.36 a share , which was in line with Wall Street estimates . 
Du Pont also announced plans for a 3-for-1 stock split 
James Fallon , a New Providence , N.J. , marketing consultant to the chemicals industry , says Du Pont still holds an edge in making the pigment 
He said Du Pont holds about 23 % of the world-wide market , the largest single share , at a time when growing uses for the pigment have kept it in tight supply 
Profit climbed to $ 98 million from $ 71 million in the petroleum segment 
A spokesman said herbicide use in some areas of the U.S. was delayed earlier in the year by heavy rains 
Profit from coal fell to $ 41 million from $ 58 million , partly because of a miners ' strike . 
Mr. Mitterrand proposed that a conference be convened next fall to write a new treaty for the EC allowing a European central bank 
Mr. Mitterrand proposed that a conference be convened next fall to write a new treaty for the EC allowing a European central bank , and that the treaty be ratified by 1992 . 
Says a European strategist : `` The U.S. tends to look at Eastern Europe -LCB- not including the Soviet Union -RCB- as Europe looks at Latin America : important but far away . 
In part , this division is dictated by economics : West Germany is a net exporter of capital 
While American aid efforts have been limited by budget problems , yesterday France announced a three-year , four billion French franc -LRB- $ 650 million -RRB- aid plan for Poland 
Despite sudden changes in the strategic equation , some Western European leaders , especially British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher , remain skeptical about European political and economic unity , and are unlikely to let East-West concerns change their minds . 
He notes that the Marshall Plan of U.S. aid to Europe `` did n't just throw money at post-war Europe 
`` Most of the West 's leaders have finally concluded that we all want perestroika -LCB- Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev 's policy of economic restructuring -RCB- to succeed , '' says Hubert Vedrine , security adviser to Mr. Mitterrand . 
He adds that with communism collapsing 
He adds that with communism collapsing and Mr. Gorbachev scrambling to rejuvenate the Soviet economy , `` Our interest lies in a controlled transformation , a contained nuclear reaction 
He doubts a Bismarckian super state will emerge that would dominate Europe , but warns of `` a risk of profound change in the heart of the European Community from a Germany that is too strong 
While many commentators , particularly French ones , worry that hasty and emotional reaction to the changes in the East might lead to dangerous pressures for a denuclearized Europe or the speeded-up withdrawal of American troops , Mr. Roper in London sees a more positive scenario 
He adds : `` Once both sides feel comfortable , it should be that much easier to make more progress toward the economic and social reforms that are now starting in the East 
Rights attached to the company 's common shares were issued that are triggered 
Once triggered , the rights allow holders to buy additional shares at 50 % of the then current market price or , at the board 's discretion , to receive securities or assets 
Dominion Textile Inc. holders adopted a shareholder-rights plan at the annual meeting . 
Computer Sciences will perform data processing work for the Postal Service under the three-year contract 
Ohbayashi officials said the purchase was undertaken to participate in ventures in and around New York City . 
Mr. Schwarz , 52 years old , will succeed Daniel P. Davison Feb. 1 
U.S. Trust , a 136-year-old institution that is one of the earliest high-net worth banks in the U.S. , has faced intensifying competition from other firms that have established , and heavily promoted , private-banking businesses of their own . 
As a result , U.S. Trust 's earnings have been hurt . 
U.S. Trust recently introduced certain mutual-fund products , which allow it to serve customers with minimum deposits of $ 250,000 . 
`` We have always taken smaller accounts 
Quarterly net income this year has risen just over comparable periods in 1988 , when year-end net was below the 1987 level . 
`` We will have a reasonably flat year this year , '' Mr. Schwarz says . 
Mr. Schwarz 's great-grandfather founded the New York toy store F.A.O. Schwarz 
H. Marshall Schwarz was named chairman and chief executive officer of U.S. Trust Corp. , a private-banking firm with assets under management of about $ 17 billion . Mr. Schwarz , who is president of U.S. Trust , will be succeeded in that post by Jeffrey S. Maurer , 42 , who is executive vice president in charge of the company 's asset-management group . 
Mr. Roberts continues as treasurer 
Donald M. Roberts , 54 , treasurer , and Frederick S. Wonham , 58 , who takes responsibility for the funds-service group , were named vice chairmen and will serve in the office of the chairman . 
Frederick B. Taylor , 48 , also was named a vice chairman and chief investment officer , a new post . 
Frederick B. Taylor , 48 , also was named a vice chairman and chief investment officer , a new post . 
One of those new computers , called Sparcstation 1 , accounted for nearly half of the 28,000 systems Sun shipped in the quarter , he said . 
More than two-thirds of the systems shipped , meanwhile , were products introduced in April . 
But problems in manufacturing , forecasting demand and getting the bugs out of a new management information system made it extremely difficult for Sun to meet demand for its newest computers well into the summer . 
Mr. McNealy said the issues that hurt Sun 's performance earlier this year are now `` largely '' behind the firm 
Sun Microsystems Inc. , snapping back to profitability after its first quarterly loss as a public firm , said it earned $ 5.2 million , or seven cents a share , in the fiscal first quarter . 
While this indicates continued strong demand for the company 's desk-top computers , Sun faces increasing competition from Digital Equipment Corp. and Hewlett-Packard Co 
While this indicates continued strong demand for the company 's desk-top computers , Sun faces increasing competition from Digital Equipment Corp. and Hewlett-Packard Co . 
A merchant bank and investment fund have agreed to co-sponsor a reorganization plan to bring Sharon Steel Corp. out of Chapter 11 proceedings 
Quantum said it has agreed to purchase as much as $ 50 million in equity in the new company , if necessary , for the confirmation of the plan 
Castle Harlan said that such financing is already being sought 
Two old friends , George Bush and Deng Xiaoping , are trying to limit further damage to U.S.-China ties . 
But as Congress prepares a fresh package of sanctions against Beijing , the already-tense relationship could get worse 
When he met with Mr. Bush on his return , Mr. Lee says , he told the president that the Chinese `` made statements to me that I regard as a first step toward reconciliation 
We must not shirk our responsibility 
The Chinese leader , Mr. Lee informed Mr. Bush , expressed some regret for what had happened in Beijing and conceded that China 's officials bore some responsibility . 
Mr. Lee also reported to the president that , in a separate meeting , Communist Party chief Jiang Zemin said the Chinese leadership `` looked kindly on the students who took part in the demonstrations . '' 
Mr. Jiang also pledged that the Chinese Red Cross would publish `` very soon '' a list of those killed . 
`` I transmitted my conversations to the White House , '' Prof. Lee says . 
He says that the Chinese never asked him to convey their statements to President Bush 
`` The president does n't want to have legislative sanctions , '' says a U.S. official . 
A university student got eight years for participating in the rallies 
Beijing officials have said they will step up the campaign of arrests and intimidation against those who participated in the demonstrations . 
So far , the victims are officially considered evil-doers 
A man gunned down by a stray bullet 
`` In the U.S. , there are still people who want to crush China and interfere in our internal affairs , '' Zhu Qizhen , China 's new ambassador to the U.S. , said 
A congressional staffer involved in drafting the sanctions says they are likely to mirror those Mr. Bush enacted shortly after the massacre . 
`` If the two sides are n't careful , U.S.-China ties could spin downward , out of control 
The patients began receiving EPO injections about a month before their scheduled surgery . 
If tests indicated a low number of red cells , blood was n't taken 
This team initially called its new model Personal Retirement Account , or `` PRA . '' 
But it did n't sing . 
This caused an explosion of IRA promotions by brokers , banks , mutual funds and others . 
But in 1986 Congress sharply reduced the number of people who could qualify for its benefits 
Commercial transactions will continue to be based on the official rate of about 0.63 rubles to the dollar . 
But for Soviet citizens who travel abroad for business or tourism , the rate will jump to 6.26 rubles to the dollar . 
Tass news agency said the devaluation also will apply to foreigners ' transactions . 
But it did n't elaborate 
As Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev has opened up the country to foreign trade , the discrepancy has become ever greater 
They use dollars to buy Western items such as video recorders and personal computers 
With more than 300 billion rubles in savings accounts and little to spend them on , Soviet consumers grumble at the exorbitant black-market prices for such goods 
The State Bank 's move is part of a drive to iron out exchange-rate discrepancies 
Rumors of an impending devaluation have been circulating in Moscow for weeks 
Soviet firms that hold some are unwilling to part with it 
Soviet firms that hold some are unwilling to part with it , and joint ventures are n't yet allowed to participate . 
The Kremlin also has been unwilling to provide hard currency for the auction 
If foreign tourists and businesses could sell their currencies freely at the new , better exchange rate , that would enable the State Bank to increase its dollar reserves and would mop up some of the excess rubles in the economy at the same time 
If foreign tourists and businesses could sell their currencies freely at the new , better exchange rate , that would enable the State Bank to increase its dollar reserves and would mop up some of the excess rubles in the economy at the same time . 
But the amounts they exchange may be limited 
Unless other rules are changed , the devaluation could cause difficulties for the people it is primarily meant to help : Soviets who travel abroad 
Over the past three years , thousands of people here have made use of looser travel restrictions to get their first taste of life abroad . 
If it is n't , the black market for dollars probably will continue to thrive 
International Business Machines Corp. made news this summer when it landed an unusual contract to manage all of Eastman Kodak Co. 's data-processing needs . 
Kodak yesterday confirmed that it has entered negotiations with Maynard , Mass.-based Digital to manage all of its voice and data communications needs . 
`` When we decided to look outside the company for critical data-processing and communications services , we wanted to get the best vendor for that service 
This year is the 75th anniversary of the Federal Reserve System 
After 75 years there may be a few things that are worth reexamining . 
In earlier years it may have seemed reasonable to give Richmond , Va. , a bank and allow Los Angeles only a branch of the San Francisco bank 
This year is the 75th anniversary of the Federal Reserve System , and some members of Congress think it 's time to take a fresh look at the nation 's central bank . 
In the beginning , the treasury secretary and the comptroller of the currency were both ex officio members of the Federal Reserve Board . 
He said that when he was on the board he felt that he had a great deal of power 
He said that when he was on the board he felt that he had a great deal of power 
There is doubt that the change would accomplish much 
Nicholas Brady , the incumbent treasury secretary , is of course aware of the proposal 
That may have pleased the secretary 
Like most treasury secretaries , Mr. Brady takes a keen interest in monetary matters , of course . 
He was , in fact , taking an especially keen interest in board matters 
After the October 1987 market crash , Mr. Brady as a private citizen headed a presidential commission that tried to decide what went wrong 
This recommendation might have encouraged a turf-hungry bureaucrat to try to expand his power 
The Fed has plenty of responsibilities in times of market turmoil 
Mr. Brady has said he thought government agencies in the latest market drop were better prepared to coordinate their actions 
Mr. Brady has said he thought government agencies in the latest market drop were better prepared to coordinate their actions , but he has left no doubt that he still likes the ideas the commission advanced nearly two years ago . 
In an interview with the Washington Post in early October , the secretary said the Fed may be slightly more interested in curbing inflation than the administration is 
The inflation-growth argument is an old one 
The treasury can do something on its own 
The Fed has been intervening in foreign currency markets , all right 
The Fed has been intervening in foreign currency markets , all right , but through August , at least , it appeared to be `` sterilizing '' the intervention . 
When traders see the Fed is in the exchange market it may make them tread a little carefully , for fear of what the central bank may do 
Now , sterilized intervention may have some effect . 
After August the Fed may have stopped sterilizing 
The Fed has let interest rates slip slightly 
Trying to manage exchange rates to some desired level , he said , `` would mean diverting monetary and fiscal policies from their customary roles 
This has been a week of stunning events behind what was once called the Iron Curtain and interesting shifts in official American policy toward Moscow . 
The latter may seem oddly irrelevant , if not downright trivial , given the big picture 
The latter may seem oddly irrelevant , if not downright trivial , given the big picture 
The latter may seem oddly irrelevant , if not downright trivial , given the big picture and the way we have handled it in the nation 's capital has done nothing to dispel that impression . 
The latter may seem oddly irrelevant , if not downright trivial , given the big picture and the way we have handled it in the nation 's capital has done nothing to dispel that impression . 
Hungary is no longer a `` Socialist Peoples '' republic , the Communist Party no longer has automatic delegates in the U.S.S.R. 's Congress of Peoples Deputies 
Hungary is no longer a `` Socialist Peoples '' republic , the Communist Party no longer has automatic delegates in the U.S.S.R. 's Congress of Peoples Deputies and Egon Krenz was not backed unanimously by his fellow party functionaries 
All of that is just for starters 
Of like , though lesser , note , Secretary of State James Baker put the administration four-square behind perestroika and glasnost , and therefore behind Mikhail Gorbachev , in a pair of carefully reasoned speeches over the past week or so . 
And , last but not least , President George Bush now views the changes in Eastern Europe as `` absolutely extraordinary '' and believes that Mr. Krenz `` ca n't turn the clock back '' in East Germany 
Of like , though lesser , note , Secretary of State James Baker put the administration four-square behind perestroika and glasnost , and therefore behind Mikhail Gorbachev , in a pair of carefully reasoned speeches over the past week or so . And , last but not least , President George Bush now views the changes in Eastern Europe as `` absolutely extraordinary '' and believes that Mr. Krenz `` ca n't turn the clock back '' in East Germany because the change is too inexorable , '' as he told the New York Times 's R.W. Apple Jr . 
All of this is what history will note 
All of this is what history will note , assuming that events do n't make it seem a bad joke , when the record of this time is put down . 
All of this is what history will note , assuming that events do n't make it seem a bad joke , when the record of this time is put down . 
The Japanese industrialist has coughed up at least $ 2 million , the Japanese government has put up just about as much 
The Japanese industrialist has coughed up at least $ 2 million , the Japanese government has put up just about as much , or so it is reported 
Punching away , we raised what I still think were all the right issues and landed more than one hard blow 
As one of his defenders so aptly put it , President Reagan was simply doing what he had always done before his election 
He was performing for pay 
He was performing for pay , and why should anyone expect anything more ? 
The theme song for the 1980s has been , `` Anything Goes 
There are those who say that this is nothing new , that America has always suffered from a bad case of schizophrenia 
There are those who say that this is nothing new , that America has always suffered from a bad case of schizophrenia when it comes to the dichotomy between what is professed 
Eighty-three years ago , William James wrote to H.G. Wells : `` The moral flabbiness born of the exclusive worship of the bitch goddess success ... that , with the squalid cash interpretation put on the word success , is our national disease . '' 
But if it was the national disease in 1906 , it is today the national commonplace 
If there is no law against it , do it 
If the law leaves loopholes , use them 
If there is no moral prohibition that expressly forbids it , full speed ahead 
If there is no moral prohibition that expressly forbids it , full speed ahead . 
And if you are caught or if people complain , simply argue that `` everyone does it '' or `` no one said I should n't '' and brazen it out 
And if you are caught 
And if you are caught or if people complain , simply argue that `` everyone does it '' or `` no one said I should n't '' and brazen it out 
And if you are caught or if people complain , simply argue that `` everyone does it 
As a last recourse , when all else has failed and you are pinned , apologize for having disappointed those who trusted you but deny having actually done anything wrong 
As a last recourse , when all else has failed 
As a last recourse , when all else has failed and you are pinned , apologize for having disappointed those who trusted you 
As a last recourse , when all else has failed and you are pinned , apologize for having disappointed those who trusted you but deny having actually done anything wrong . 
We have people in high place still lying through their teeth about Iran-Contra 
The occasional media witch hunt about some politician 's private peccadilloes notwithstanding , the general inclination is to offer a version of the old refrain , `` Who am I to judge ? '' 
`` You are mad 
No , we ought to be mad 
He was referring to the `` absolutely extraordinary '' events in Eastern Europe 
He was referring to the `` absolutely extraordinary '' events in Eastern Europe , and it is a defensible position . 
We did n't stampede into it , we slithered and slipped down the long slope 
We did n't stampede into it , we slithered and slipped down the long slope , and now we have as its quintessential symbol a former president huckstering for a foreign poohbah . 
The board said Mr. Drabinsky and Vice Chairman Myron Gottlieb are negotiating financing 
The directors added that the two executives have n't reached a final decision to proceed with a bid 
The directors added that the two executives have n't reached a final decision to proceed with a bid and that until an offer is made the board will continue seeking higher offers from other bidders 
The directors said if Messrs. Drabinsky and Gottlieb mail an offer to shareholders by Nov. 22 , it will reimburse them a maximum of C$ 8.5 million for expenses related to a bid 
MCA and Cineplex 's other major shareholder , Montreal-based financier Charles Bronfman and his associates , have agreed to tender their holdings to an offer by Mr. Drabinsky 
MCA holds half of Cineplex 's equity and 33 % of its voting rights through restricted voting shares 
She declined to identify other bidders but said Mr. Drabinsky 's offer `` is all cash 
`` If a bid materializes at that price , shareholders will have every reason to be glad 
`` If a bid materializes at that price , shareholders will have every reason to be glad 
The directors did n't indicate the source of financing for Mr. Drabinsky 's new proposal , but said MCA and the Bronfman associates agreed in principle to buy for $ 57 million 
The directors did n't indicate the source of financing for Mr. Drabinsky 's new proposal , but said MCA and the Bronfman associates agreed in principle to buy for $ 57 million and then lease back to Cineplex its 18-screen theater complex in Universal City , 
The directors did n't indicate the source of financing for Mr. Drabinsky 's new proposal , but said MCA and the Bronfman associates agreed in principle to buy for $ 57 million and then lease back to Cineplex its 18-screen theater complex in Universal City , Calif. , if Mr. Drabinsky succeeds in an offer . 
In addition , the directors said if a bid by Mr. Drabinsky is successful , Cineplex expects Rank Organisation PLC to acquire the 51 % of Cineplex 's Film House unit it does n't own , and provide Mr. Drabinsky with additional loan financing 
Mr. Panet-Raymond said he does n't think Messrs. Drabinsky and Gottlieb are `` anywhere close '' to arranging financing 
Mr. Panet-Raymond said he does n't think Messrs. Drabinsky and Gottlieb are `` anywhere close '' to arranging financing and that investors will need a solid offer 
Hoechst AG 's Chairman Wolfgang Hilger said the company wants to have a substitute product to completely replace ozone-damaging chlorofluorocarbons by 1995 . 
The test markets , though not specified , will be in northern California , Arizona and Colorado , some of the hottest bottled-water markets 
In Geneva , where world trade talks are being held under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade , or GATT , the European Community called the U.S. proposal `` a step backward . '' 
And Japan 's minister of agriculture , forestry and fisheries told a committee of Japan 's parliament that Washington 's proposal was impractical 
U.S. officials said the plan was flexible , and was intended as a pragmatic approach for gradually removing trade-distorting subsidies . 
Some of America 's biggest trading partners gave a quick thumbs-down to a U.S. proposal to liberalize world trade and reduce farm-product subsidies . 
While many experts argue that food-importing nations would eventually become self-sufficient in a free-market system , the poorest nations are likely to need help in the meantime 
While many experts argue that food-importing nations would eventually become self-sufficient in a free-market system 
The U.S. argues that its plan would ease the transition to freer agriculture trade by converting certain non-tariff barriers into tariffs 
The U.S. argues that its plan would ease the transition to freer agriculture trade by converting certain non-tariff barriers into tariffs that , together with existing tariffs , then would be phased out over 10 years . 
The U.S. argues that its plan would ease the transition to freer agriculture trade by converting certain non-tariff barriers into tariffs that , together with existing tariffs , then would be phased out over 10 years . 
The new U.S. package also says countries could temporarily raise tariffs on certain products 
The EC , with a population of 320 million , has 8.5 million farmers 
Japan 's objections to the U.S. plan center around its desire to stay self-sufficient in rice , a staple food 
Under the agreement , which had been widely expected , Bell Atlantic would be buying Control Data 's customer base and its approximately 100 U.S. maintenance facilities in about 33 cities . 
`` The biographer\/critic , '' Judge Leval wrote , `` should not be required simply to express ... conclusions without defending them by example . 
He distinguished the two cases : In Salinger , Judge Leval noted , the quotations were for the purpose of enlivening the biography rather than of proving points about the subject . 
Judge Leval reluctantly concluded that a few of Mr. Miller 's quotations from Mr. Hubbard 's unpublished writings , because they were not necessary to prove historical points , failed the fair-use test 
Judge Leval reluctantly concluded that a few of Mr. Miller 's quotations from Mr. Hubbard 's unpublished writings , because they were not necessary to prove historical points , failed the fair-use test 
Judge Leval reluctantly concluded that a few of Mr. Miller 's quotations from Mr. Hubbard 's unpublished writings , because they were not necessary to prove historical points , failed the fair-use test and therefore infringed copyright . 
Decisions by the Second Circuit itself , Judge Oakes continued , had recognized that public interest in the subject matter and the indispensability in particular cases of verbatim quotations are vital components of fair use . 
Suppression of the book , Judge Oakes observed , would operate as a prior restraint 
Suppression of the book , Judge Oakes observed , would operate as a prior restraint and thus involve the First Amendment . 
Moreover , and here Judge Oakes went to the heart of the question , `` Responsible biographers and historians constantly use primary sources , letters , diaries , and memoranda . 
Now , scholars in fulfilling their responsibility do not claim the right to invade every collection of papers that bears upon their topics of investigation . 
And of course they agree that people can impose restrictions on the use of their papers , whether in their own possession or as donated or sold to libraries . 
But in the `` Bare-Faced Messiah '' case the author found most of his material in court records or via the Freedom of Information Act . 
And when responsible scholars gain legitimate access to unpublished materials , copyright should not be permitted to deny them use of quotations that help to establish historical points 
Judges Miner and Altimari do not appear to have a clue . 
If an author quotes `` more than minimal amounts '' of unpublished copyrighted materials , as the Salinger decision had it , `` he deserves to be enjoined 
The courts have not defined `` minimal amounts 
Janet Malcolm , a professional writer on psychiatric matters , wrote a series of articles for the New Yorker 
Janet Malcolm , a professional writer on psychiatric matters , wrote a series of articles for the New Yorker , later published in book form by Knopf under the title `` In the Freud Archives . '' 
As a public figure , Mr. Masson had to prove malice 
The quotes could not be found on the tapes 
For all historians and most journalists , this admission would have been sufficient to condemn the Malcolm articles . 
In his eloquent dissent , Judge Alex Kozinski observed that when a writer uses quotation marks in reporting what someone has said , the reader assumes that these are the speaker 's precise words or at least his words purged of `` uh '' and `` you know '' and grammatical error 
While judges have an obligation under the First Amendment to safeguard freedom of the press , `` the right to deliberately alter quotations is not , in my view , a concomitant of a free press 
While judges have an obligation under the First Amendment to safeguard freedom of the press , `` the right to deliberately alter quotations is not , in my view , a concomitant of a free press . '' 
The majority cited Mr. Masson 's remark `` It 's me alone ... against the rest of the analytic world '' as warrant for the Malcolm fabrication . 
The majority decision contended that the phrase was a rational interpretation of Mr. Masson 's description of himself as a `` private asset but a public liability '' to Anna Freud 
As Robert Coles wrote in a review of Ms. Malcolm 's book , Mr. Masson emerges `` as a grandiose egotist ... and , in the end , a self-destructive fool . 
Masson has lost his case 
Perhaps in time the Supreme Court will correct them . 
Few now recall the actual outcome : Scopes was convicted and fined $ 100 
Few now recall the actual outcome : Scopes was convicted and fined $ 100 , and his conviction was reversed on appeal 
It has always been so . 
It presents no great issue of legal principle , no overriding question of family law or the law of contempt . 
It is difficult , if not impossible , for anyone who has not pored over the thousands of pages of court pleadings and transcripts to have a worthwhile opinion on the underlying merits of the controversy . 
The first is that it represents an intense battle in what James Thurber used to caricature as `` the war between the sexes . '' 
But although Thurber did so gently and lightheartedly , many of Dr. Morgan 's supporters have taken Thurber 's memorable title `` The Male Animal '' quite literally 
As members of the Black Caucus in Congress asked during the debate on the legislation that freed Dr. Morgan , does anyone seriously believe that if she were an uneducated , black , working-class woman , Congress would have rushed to pass a private relief bill freeing her 
As members of the Black Caucus in Congress asked during the debate on the legislation that freed Dr. Morgan , does anyone seriously believe that if she were an uneducated , black , working-class woman , Congress would have rushed to pass a private relief bill freeing her ? 
The first is that it represents an intense battle in what James Thurber used to caricature as `` the war between the sexes . '' A second theme is the undercurrent of social class and race in the public reaction to the Morgan case . 
The local government is discredited in the eyes of many residents for a variety of reasons 
Congress is paralyzed from acting on such great issues of the day as the federal budget deficit . 
Yet a bill tailored to the interests of a single individual passed Congress with almost unimaginable speed 
Yet a bill tailored to the interests of a single individual passed Congress with almost unimaginable speed , before the judicial process had run its course 
Yet a bill tailored to the interests of a single individual passed Congress with almost unimaginable speed 
Congress is paralyzed from acting on such great issues of the day as the federal budget deficit . Yet a bill tailored to the interests of a single individual passed Congress with almost unimaginable speed , before the judicial process had run its course , and , indeed , while the Morgan case was awaiting a ruling by the appellate court . 
An investment company said it offered to acquire Arby 's Inc. , the fast-food operator , for $ 205 million . 
General Motors Corp. 's big defense and automotive electronics unit , GM Hughes Electronics , said net income fell 22 % in the third quarter , reflecting declining military spending and slumping GM vehicle production . 
Meanwhile , net at GM 's finance arm , General Motors Acceptance Corp. , fell 3.1 % . 
Profit at the unit fell to $ 110.6 million , or 37 cents a share , from $ 142.4 million , or 45 cents a share , largely because of a $ 24 million one-time charge associated with Hughes 's previously announced plan to reduce employment by at least 6,000 people by year end . 
The earnings drop at GM Hughes Electronics is a sign of tough times at both the defense operations of Hughes Aircraft Co. and GM 's North American automotive operations , which are a primary customer for the Delco Electronics Corp. side of the GM Hughes unit . 
The bids remain subject to evaluation by the federal bankruptcy court supervising PS of New Hampshire 's reorganization . 
Each of the four parties bidding for PS of New Hampshire proposes a complex financial package to satisfy creditors and shareholders 
The new round of bidding would seem to complicate the decision making for Judge James Yacos , the bankruptcy judge overseeing the case 
The new round of bidding would seem to complicate the decision making for Judge James Yacos , the bankruptcy judge overseeing the case , because the company 's stockholders , unsecured creditors and regulators each are currently backing different plans . 
The unsecured creditors agreed in principle to support New Haven , Conn.-based United Illuminating 's new bid . 
All of the bidders contemplate full payment including interest to secured creditors . 
Geoffrey Kalmus , counsel to the official creditors committee , said that under the United Illuminating plan , unsecured creditors would be paid in full credits and interest of about $ 855 million , accrued before PS of New Hampshire 's Jan. 1988 filing for bankruptcy court protection . 
It would be 72%-owned by United Illuminating holders and 28%-owned by current holders of PS of New Hampshire preferred and common stock . 
The other bidders , New England Electric System , Westboro , Mass. , and PS of New Hampshire , did n't change the value of their bids 
New England Electric values its offer at $ 2 billion 
The bankruptcy judge has ruled that federal bankruptcy laws could be used to circumvent state regulation . 
However , creditors and bidders alike concede that the state plays a major role 
PS of New Hampshire amended its plan to call for two years of 5.5 % rate increases followed by five years of 4.5 % increases . 
PS of New Hampshire amended its plan to call for two years of 5.5 % rate increases followed by five years of 4.5 % increases . 
PS of New Hampshire amended its plan to call for two years of 5.5 % rate increases followed by five years of 4.5 % increases . 
The new offer assumes just five years of 5.5 % rate increases , to be followed by state-approved increases under the usual hearing procedure . 
In a separate development , PS of New Hampshire gave 60 managers severance agreements that would pay one to three years ' salary 
In a separate development , PS of New Hampshire gave 60 managers severance agreements that would pay one to three years ' salary if their jobs were changed 
Richard Breeden had n't noticed that his new desk had just four telephone lines and one phone . 
As the stock market lurched into a 190-point free fall on Oct. 13 , Mr. Breeden found himself scurrying around the sixth floor of the SEC -- from his desk , where the New York Stock Exchange was on an open line , to his assistant 's office , where the Commodity Futures Trading Commission was connected , to a third room , where a computer monitored market moves 
Now there are more lines connected to the chairman 's office 
Like his predecessor , David Ruder , he was faced with a crisis in the stock markets 
Like his predecessor , David Ruder , he was faced with a crisis in the stock markets soon after coming into office . 
But unlike Mr. Ruder , who during the 1987 crash damaged himself by saying rather offhandedly that the markets might be closed , Mr. Breeden is turning the market drop to his own advantage , using it to further his agenda for the SEC . 
More broadly , he wants to `` modernize '' regulation by eliminating barriers between commercial and investment banking and by helping U.S. financial firms compete in the global market . 
But Mr. Breeden , a 39-year-old securities lawyer , has skirted some of the heftier issues facing the financial markets . 
For instance , he has n't stated a clear position on high-risk , high-yield junk bonds , an area of growing concern as turmoil in the junk market spills over into stocks . 
Members of the Senate Banking Committee know Mr. Breeden from working on the thrift-bailout bill 
Members of the Senate Banking Committee know Mr. Breeden from working on the thrift-bailout bill , and the relationship generally remains warm . 
These days , Mr. Breeden is winning praise in Washington and on Wall Street for his behind-the-scenes role in monitoring the Friday-the-13th market plunge and the following Monday 's harrowing morning session . 
`` It was a fairly stressful weekend 
`` It was a fairly stressful weekend , but my sense is if you had n't had Richard Breeden there , it would n't have made much of a difference 
They worry that Mr. Breeden also will roll over 
They worry that Mr. Breeden also will roll over when told to do so by the White House . 
Stunned , Mr. Breeden turned to his market-monitoring computer 
Mr. Breeden instructed SEC staffers to inform the network that it was airing the wrong number . 
Though obscure to most investors , the question of whether to list options on more than one exchange has aroused much interest in Congress 
The soft , wafting aromas will `` improve ride comfort , '' the display attests 
Welcome to the 28th Tokyo Motor Show . Here you can find Mitsubishi Motors Corp. displaying a `` live fish transporter , '' a truck akin to an aquarium on wheels , and Nissan Motor Co. with its `` keyless '' Boga , whose doors unlock upon recognizing the owner 's fingerprints . Suzuki Motor Co. 's Escudome sport vehicle features a pop-out rear tent and invites drivers to go `` back to the nature . '' 
But this biennial event , the world 's largest display of cars and trucks , has its serious side , including the first major exhibitions of future engines and vehicle-suspension systems . 
It 's also the prime showcase for a country whose world dominance in the industry is increasingly acknowledged 
Even the biggest auto shows in the U.S. are largely regional affairs 
Detroit-to-Tokyo flights were booked solid this week 
Here 's a firsthand look at what the Japanese hosts sported 
Existing suspension systems try to absorb bounces 
Nissan says it will introduce its first system next month on the Infiniti Q45 luxury sedan 
Nissan says it will introduce its first system next month on the Infiniti Q45 luxury sedan , and Toyota 's Celica coupe will go on sale with the suspension device next spring . 
But drivers in the U.S. must wait : The Japanese , for now , are keeping active suspension for domestic use only . 
In the engine department , several companies displayed experimental models that within a decade could provide power equal to today 's engines 
In the so-called two-stroke engines , which are expected to get sharply higher gas mileage , each piston goes up and down only once to provide power . 
It is rumored to be bound for a new model in the luxury Acura line in the 
There 's plenty of whimsy here 
The show 's symbol is a woman riding on a snail , not your usual metaphor for speed and agility . 
Japanese auto makers are known for coming up with funny names 
Honda has a tiny motorcycle called the Monkey , and a slightly larger cousin , the Gorilla . Mitsubishi has a futuristic delivery truck called the Guppy . Mazda has the Bongo truck and , under its Autozam nameplate , a `` microvan '' called the Scrum . Its buglike Carol minicar is `` designed with softness , gentleness and warmheartedness . '' 
One of its futuristic concepts is the bubblelike Sneaker , which seats just one person in front and could hold a small child and bag of groceries in the rear . 
Japanese auto makers are known for coming up with funny names , but this year the practice seems to have reached a new high -- or low . 
The name is supposed to connote feminine grandeur 
General Motors Corp. is sponsoring its first independent display in 10 years 
Hyundai Motor Co. of South Korea has its first-ever exhibit in Tokyo . General Motors Corp. is sponsoring its first independent display in 10 years , and it includes a boxy Buick station wagon with wood-grain side panels . AB Volvo invites passers-by to play `` the role of the test dummy '' by hopping in a car that simulates a crash to show just how its seat-belt tightener works . 
Ford and Chrysler also have exhibits 
Even so , traditional American cockiness is n't terribly endangered . 
True , Ford was declared the winner Sunday 
True , Ford was declared the winner Sunday 
True , Ford was declared the winner Sunday , but only after the Honda driver who crossed the finish line first was disqualified 
Ford officials , for example , crowed about their first-ever Tokyo Grand Prix racing victory . True , Ford was declared the winner Sunday , but only after the Honda driver who crossed the finish line first was disqualified because it hit another car and skid momentarily out of bounds . 
The Republicans maintain that a 30 % capital-gains exclusion will raise revenue in the short term and spur economic investment 
PWA would n't estimate the value of Wardair 's aircraft , which include 12 Airbus A310-300s and three Boeing 747-100s . 
PWA Corp. said it plans to sell by spring 1992 all 15 passenger planes it acquired earlier this year in its 248 million Canadian dollar -LRB- US$ 211.6 million -RRB- purchase of Wardair Inc . 
Mr. Ireland said current demand for used aircraft is strong 
PWA Corp. said it plans to sell by spring 1992 all 15 passenger planes it acquired earlier this year in its 248 million Canadian dollar -LRB- US$ 211.6 million -RRB- purchase of Wardair Inc . Mr. Ireland said 11 DC10-30 aircraft that PWA also said it plans to sell , beginning in 1992 , have a current half-life value of about $ 34 million each , or a total $ 374 million , raising aggregate potential proceeds from the aircraft sale to about $ 1.02 billion . 
PWA did n't disclose the expected net cost of the fleet overhaul 
PWA Corp. said it plans to sell by spring 1992 all 15 passenger planes it acquired earlier this year in its 248 million Canadian dollar -LRB- US$ 211.6 million -RRB- purchase of Wardair Inc . Mr. Ireland said 11 DC10-30 aircraft that PWA also said it plans to sell , beginning in 1992 , have a current half-life value of about $ 34 million each , or a total $ 374 million , raising aggregate potential proceeds from the aircraft sale to about $ 1.02 billion . Under its revised fleet plan , PWA said it will also increase its existing fleet of eight Boeing 767-300ER aircraft to 18 by 1994 , and add four more Boeing 747-400s by 1994 to the two units that it previously planned to add by next year . 
Transportation Secretary Sam Skinner , who earlier fueled the anti-takeover fires with his quasi-xenophobic attacks on foreign investment in U.S. carriers , now says the bill would further disturb the jittery capital markets 
Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan told Congress that the Fed can wipe out inflation without causing a recession 
`` Such a deadline is attainable 
`` What seem to be interpreted as great conflicts are relatively minor issues of tactics , '' he said . 
But the Fed is n't enthusiastic about Treasury efforts to bring down the value of the dollar through intervention in foreign-exchange markets 
Mr. Greenspan said the inflation rate , currently about 4 1\/2 % , `` could be brought down to levels which are close to zero without putting the economy into a recession 
Mr. Greenspan said the inflation rate , currently about 4 1\/2 % , `` could be brought down to levels which are close to zero without putting the economy into a recession , but I do suspect that there might be some modest loss of economic output . '' 
In other words , economic growth would be lower 
Mr. Greenspan said the inflation rate , currently about 4 1\/2 % , `` could be brought down to levels which are close to zero without putting the economy into a recession , but I do suspect that there might be some modest loss of economic output . '' 
But Mr. Greenspan , who has repeatedly said the Fed 's goal is to reduce inflation , added that `` whatever losses are incurred in the pursuing of price stability 
He warned that Fed efforts to conquer inflation would fail 
Rep. Neal 's bill originally called on the Fed to reduce the inflation rate by one percentage point a year for five years 
He altered the wording to win Mr. Greenspan 's endorsement . 
Reps. Hamilton and Dorgan also have altered their bill , dropping a proposal to add the Treasury secretary to the 12-member Fed committee that makes monetary policy . 
Even that met with Mr. Greenspan 's disapproval 
While each of the Hamilton-Dorgan proposals represents only a small step , together they would erode the Fed 's independence 
While each of the Hamilton-Dorgan proposals represents only a small step , together they would erode the Fed 's independence , Mr. Greenspan said . 
Mr. Greenspan also said that although he favors cutting capital-gains taxes as sound economic policy , he would oppose such a move if it would undo the political compromise embodied in the Tax Reform Act of 1986 and result in higher marginal income tax rates 
Mr. Greenspan also said that although he favors cutting capital-gains taxes as sound economic policy , he would oppose such a move 
The do-it-yourself show , slated to start airing by June 1990 , marks Sears 's entry into the burgeoning market of home repair television programs and could bolster sales of its home improvement products . 
Earlier this year , public television station WGBH in Boston fired Mr. Vila 
With Mr. Vila as host , `` This Old House '' became one of the Public Broadcasting Service 's top 10 programs , airing weekly on about 300 of the network 's stations and seen by an average of 12 million viewers . 
But Home Depot Inc. , an Atlanta-based home center chain , objected 
While Sears would n't comment on the brouhaha over Mr. Vila 's commercial endorsements , it appears to be building a fence around Mr. Vila 's affections 
Environmental groups have been calling for faster action on dangerous pesticides and may welcome part of the proposal . 
The agency has since acted to remove Alar from the nation 's grocery shelves by May 31 , 1991 
The principles would give the Environmental Protection Agency increased authority and flexibility in regulating pesticides , with the aim of enabling the agency to move more quickly . 
Under the Delaney clause , which applies to processed food , a chemical is banned 
Under the Delaney clause , which applies to processed food , a chemical is banned if it causes cancer in laboratory animals . 
Under other laws applying to pesticide use , however , that same chemical could be allowed to be used on fresh food 
-- Bar states from setting more stringent tolerance levels for a pesticide 
Chemicals that exceed these risk levels would be barred 
-- Allow the EPA to permit the continued use of pesticides that exceed its negligible risk standard 
Yesterday 's sluggish action was in marked contrast to the rearing and plunging of stock prices Tuesday 
Traders said the stock market 's lurching moves have prompted many investors to head for the sidelines 
Although bond prices were n't as volatile on Tuesday trading as stock prices , traders nevertheless said action also was much slower yesterday in the Treasury market 
Although bond prices were n't as volatile on Tuesday trading as stock prices 
The Dow Jones Industrial Average lost 5.94 points to 2653.28 in moderate trading . 
Economists predict the report will show economic growth of about 2.5 % in the third quarter , which would have little effect on financial markets . 
Stock prices slipped lower in moderate trading . 
We scribblers quickly concurred that not only was the bad rep of big-time college sports richly earned 
We scribblers quickly concurred that not only was the bad rep of big-time college sports richly earned 
Competition could be maintained 
Competition could be maintained 
Competition could be maintained -- and stadiums probably would remain full -- if schedules were reduced 
As the session broke up , I was approached by a man who identified himself as the alumni director of a Big Ten university 
`` I 'd love to see sports cut back 
`` I 'd love to see sports cut back , and so would a lot of my counterparts at other schools 
`` I 'd love to see sports cut back , and so would a lot of my counterparts at other schools , but everybody 's afraid to make the first move , '' he confided . 
`` I 'd love to see sports cut back , and so would a lot of my counterparts at other schools , but everybody 's afraid to make the first move , '' he confided . 
And so our institutions of higher learning lurch from scandal to scandal on gridiron and basketball court 
One recruiter working with Mr. Meyer was so generous with $ 10 and $ 20 bills that prospects sang `` Here Comes Santa Claus 
Which was about what Mr. Shields did , and quietly 
Which was about what Mr. Shields did , and quietly , until he resigned a few years later 
Discrepancies go unexplained in `` Confidential '' -LRB- one ex-player claims he received $ 4,000 to $ 5,000 for his season football tickets 
Discrepancies go unexplained in `` Confidential '' -LRB- one ex-player claims he received $ 4,000 to $ 5,000 for his season football tickets while others said theirs brought only a few hundred dollars -RRB- 
Discrepancies go unexplained in `` Confidential '' -LRB- one ex-player claims he received $ 4,000 to $ 5,000 for his season football tickets while others said theirs brought only a few hundred dollars -RRB- , and when Mr. Keteyian ca n't nail down something , like who really owned a car driven by Husker tailback Doug Dubose , he simply reprints his notes 
A serious charge -- that star flanker Irving Fryar `` threw '' the 1984 Orange Bowl game by intentionally dropping a pass in the end zone -- is included 
Discrepancies go unexplained in `` Confidential '' -LRB- one ex-player claims he received $ 4,000 to $ 5,000 for his season football tickets while others said theirs brought only a few hundred dollars -RRB- , and when Mr. Keteyian ca n't nail down something , like who really owned a car driven by Husker tailback Doug Dubose , he simply reprints his notes . There are gratuitous references to supposed romantic liaisons between Husker players and a low-level female university employee . A serious charge -- that star flanker Irving Fryar `` threw '' the 1984 Orange Bowl game by intentionally dropping a pass in the end zone -- is included , even though the Nebraska assistant coach quoted denied making it . 
While the university was no more to blame for that than for the similar fate of any other student , it must bear responsibility for its conduct in the aftermath 
Bias 's coach , Lefty Driesell , ordered the room in which Bias died to be cleaned 
Bias 's coach , Lefty Driesell , ordered the room in which Bias died to be cleaned before the police could arrive -LRB- the order was n't carried out -RRB- 
Officials at the Department of Revenue had dogged the foreign car maker for taxes owed on business transactions and were proceeding to settle the dispute in court . 
Mercedes-Benz , which had said it did n't owe taxes to Massachusetts 
The amount covers taxes , interest and penalties owed from 1966 , when the state began collecting corporate taxes , to 1985 . 
Under Massachusetts tax laws , corporations must pay 9.5 % of estimated profits resulting from business transactions in the state 
As part of the plan , the Houston-based company 's 1,100 Stop 'N Go stores will be refocused to target black , Hispanic , upscale or core middle-class customers . 
National Convenience 's move is likely to be echoed by other chains 
National Convenience 's move is likely to be echoed by other chains , though analysts note that Southland Corp. , owner of 7-Eleven stores , and Circle K Corp. are too debt-heavy to roll out such an extensive effort . 
Still , Southland said that its franchisees have been targeting their merchandise to their customers for years 
Still , Southland said that its franchisees have been targeting their merchandise to their customers for years , and that the company has begun to follow suit . 
For instance , Southland has expanded its bottled water selection in some stores and added fresh sandwiches in some outlets . 
The union called the strike in April 
No schedule for formal talks was set 
One day after Delmed Inc. made top management changes and disclosed the end of an important business tie , its stock did n't trade and the company forecast a `` significant '' drop next year in sales of its core product 
One day after Delmed Inc. made top management changes and disclosed the end of an important business tie , its stock did n't trade 
That disclosure came 
That disclosure came , a Delmed spokeswoman said , after the American Stock Exchange alerted the company that trading would n't resume in its stock 
One day after Delmed Inc. made top management changes and disclosed the end of an important business tie , its stock did n't trade and the company forecast a `` significant '' drop next year in sales of its core product . 
At the same time , the New Brunswick , N.J. , company said negotiations about pricing and volumes of product had collapsed between it and its exclusive distributor in the U.S. , National Medical Care Inc . 
The current distribution arrangement ends in March 1990 
The current distribution arrangement ends in March 1990 , although Delmed said it will continue to provide some supplies of the peritoneal dialysis products to National Medical , the spokeswoman said . 
Delmed said yesterday that Fresenius USA would begin distributing the product 
Fresenius , a West German pharmaceutical concern , has been discussing a transaction in which it would buy Delmed stock for cash to bring its beneficial ownership to between 70 % and 80 % . 
Fresenius , a West German pharmaceutical concern , has been discussing a transaction in which it would buy Delmed stock for cash to bring its beneficial ownership to between 70 % and 80 % . The transaction also would combine Fresenius USA and Delmed . 
Delmed did say that the proposal still would infuse cash into Delmed but less than the $ 10 million originally expected . 
Brooks Armored Car Service Inc. never wanted to get into money laundering . 
The $ 75 million in paper money , although moldy , mildewy and smelly , was exchanged through the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia without incident 
The $ 75 million in paper money , although moldy , mildewy and smelly , was exchanged through the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia without incident . 
The U.S. Mint would n't take the coin 
The U.S. Mint would n't take the coin because it was n't mutilated 
A Mint official says the agency offered to clean the coins for its `` bare-bones '' cost of $ 17,000 plus certain other expenses . 
But Brooks declined , figuring that transporting the mucked up money to Washington would cost the company thousands more . 
After cooling 
Brooks expects to pay Coin Wrap a total of about $ 20,000 -- a cost that insurance wo n't cover . 
And while the job is half done , Brooks is still bitter 
And while the job is half done , Brooks is still bitter . 
In fact , there 's only one person involved who 's happy 
Not only did his company find $ 20,000 worth of work 
Not only did his company find $ 20,000 worth of work , but when the approach was suggested , Mr. String says , Brooks officials `` did n't laugh at me or anything 
It seems that every day a new movie opens featuring a child coping with a mother 's death , or adoption , or aging parents , or pregnancy . 
Some of our best and most idiosyncratic film makers -- from Truffaut to Fellini to Woody Allen -- have taken a cue from Chekhov : When it comes to compelling drama , there 's no place like home 
Some of our best and most idiosyncratic film makers -- from Truffaut to Fellini to Woody Allen -- have taken a cue from Chekhov : When it comes to compelling drama , there 's no place like home . 
This is not the case . 
All of their friends have children 
All of their friends have children and they ca n't 
The idea of a child-as-required-yuppie-possession must be motivating them 
The actors wear pained expressions to indicate their genuine longing for a little one 
The actors wear pained expressions to indicate their genuine longing for a little one -- or maybe they 're not-so-subtly commenting on the inadequacy of the script , and Jonathan Kaplan 's -LRB- `` The Accused '' -RRB- dull direction . 
Or maybe they are disgusted by the literal-minded musical score ; when a character arrives at a major decision her thoughts are revealed by the sound of `` I Can See Clearly Now 
The adoption agency insists on introducing the adopting parents to the birth mother 
There is some pain 
There is some pain , when Lucy has the baby and `` did n't know she would feel like this '' and wants to keep the baby . 
The glib emotional style Mr. Goldberg has perfected on television 's `` Family Ties '' does n't benefit from magnification . His characters practically scamper through a vast range of human emotions , like travelers doing 10 cities in eight days . They pause only to register little whimpers of distress and sighs of satisfaction , like tourists cataloging the sights they 've seen from the window of a bus . Not even Jack Lemmon 's expert doddering makes this trip worth taking . 
So it 's entirely possible that `` Look Who 's Talking '' is n't as entertaining as it seems in comparison to the turgid other films opening now . 
So it 's entirely possible that `` Look Who 's Talking '' is n't as entertaining as it seems in comparison to the turgid other films opening now . 
It starts with conception , taking the sperm 's point of view 
Bruce Willis 's best attribute as an actor is his coy , lazy voice 
Supposedly , he proposed the movie to his producer , Claude Berri , in four lines : `` An orphan bear cub . A big solitary bear . Two hunters in the forest . The animals ' point of view . '' 
Supposedly , he proposed the movie to his producer , Claude Berri , in four lines : `` An orphan bear cub . A big solitary bear . Two hunters in the forest . The animals ' point of view . '' 
Westinghouse Electric Corp. , capitalizing on a major restructuring program , expects operating margins of more than 10 % and double-digit per-share earnings growth next year , top officers told securities analysts here . 
Since 1983 , Westinghouse has shed 70 businesses that it did n't expect to produce 10 % operating margins 
Even if the gross national product is either flat or in the growth range of 2 % to 2.5 % , `` we can handle that 
While Westinghouse has n't had a nuclear power plant order from a U.S. utility in about a decade , excess capacity is beginning to shrink 
Mr. Lego said the company foresees the need for a major boost in new-generation capability throughout the 1990s . 
He said the independent power segment could grow to provide as much as 50 % of near-term generation capacity , adding : `` We expect to supply a significant share of this market . '' 
The deal , which will involve an initial $ 20 million investment , was struck with a handshake , he added . 
As ties between academia and venture capital have blossomed in recent years , governmental fear of abuse has risen 
The National Institutes of Health policy would require researchers to cut financial ties with health-care businesses -- or lose their government money . 
The researchers , who are being financed by the Lithox funds , will receive a royalty , or percentage of sales 
The researchers , who are being financed by the Lithox funds , will receive a royalty , or percentage of sales , if their research yields a commercial product . 
But because the University of California , like many other universities , shares its royalties with researchers , it may disqualify itself from federal funds under the proposed guidelines 
The high-tech industry is full of the kind of arrangement that the new guidelines would affect . 
While Ms. Kaddurah-Daouk left MIT to head Amira , Prof. Schimmel will continue to work at MIT , serve on Amira 's board and own a small equity stake in the company 
While universities develop the basic research , `` venture capitalists are the ones best positioned to finance its commercialization 
While Ms. Kaddurah-Daouk left MIT to head Amira , Prof. Schimmel will continue to work at MIT , serve on Amira 's board and own a small equity stake in the company . 
But the new guidelines could prevent scientists like Prof. Schimmel from being involved with start-ups such as Amira , venture capitalists point out . 
And if that happens , the entire process of transferring technology to the marketplace could be harmed 
Investors were willing to gamble on new technologies 
In many of these deals , `` venture capitalists had the inside track , '' says Lawrence Bock of Avalon Ventures , La Jolla , Calif . 
But under the proposed guidelines , all federally funded research will have to be reported publicly 
But under the proposed guidelines , all federally funded research will have to be reported publicly so that anyone can capitalize on the work . 
Last year , for example , Avalon and others invested $ 14 million in Athena Neurosciences Inc. , South San Francisco , Calif. , to license and develop technology for delivery of drugs to the brain . 
But before Athena was able to get an exclusive license to the technology , the Federal Register published most of the details , `` giving all of the company 's potential competitors a chance to exploit it 
Athena eventually acquired exclusive rights to the technology and currently is developing it . 
But under the proposed guidelines , all federally funded research will have to be reported publicly so that anyone can capitalize on the work . 
If start-ups ca n't have early access to research being conducted at institutions , `` we have to replicate it ourselves or do without the research 
NIH staff members believe the guidelines are essential to prevent the escalation of problems that have already begun to surface in scientific ventures . 
Ms. Bick , the NIH administrator , says the business and scientific community is overreacting to what the agency merely meant to be `` ideas for discussion . '' 
But when agencies like the NIH circulate guidelines , they 've often already formulated policy 
But when agencies like the NIH circulate guidelines , they 've often already formulated policy , veteran scientists say . 
On Sept. 14 , Harvard began circulating a conflict-of-interest policy statement that , in effect , would follow the NIH guidelines faithfully . 
In many other institutions , scientists are shunning contacts with venture investors 
Friday , Oct. 27 , 9 p.m.-midnight EDT , on PBS -LRB- PBS air dates and times vary 
Worth watching 
It 's set in New York 
Critical opinion is divided about the success of Benton 's populist defiance of modernist art . 
I 've seen a great many moviestar film portraits 
You 'll remember 
L.J. Hooker , based in Atlanta , filed for Chapter 11 protection in August 
`` The cash from the sale will go to L.J. Hooker 
In a statement , Mr. Merksamer described the filing as a `` legal technicality 
Renaissance declined to confirm the move 
As reported , PaineWebber bought shares Tuesday as part of a customer strategy shift 
As reported , PaineWebber bought shares Tuesday as part of a customer strategy shift 
When it owns stocks , Renaissance 's portfolio typically is composed of about 60 large-capitalization issues 
The broker winning the business does n't charge commissions 
That puts the broker at risk 
The sell signal , which sent a bearish chill through the stock market , came 
The Dow average now stands more than 20 % higher 
Almost any money manager holding stocks has turned in better results 
So why does Renaissance 's computer like stocks with the Dow at 2653.28 
Three-month T-bill yields have fallen to 7.8 % from about 9 % at the start of the year . 
Mr. Terrizzi wo n't say specifically , explaining that if there was such a move , it would take about three days to complete the loose ends of the transaction 
During that time , a buyer with the clout of a Renaissance could end up driving up the price of stocks it was trying to buy 
During that time , a buyer with the clout of a Renaissance could end up driving up the price of stocks it was trying to buy if it tipped its hand . 
But everything is relative to Mr. Terrizzi 
But everything is relative to Mr. Terrizzi , so stocks in his view can become more attractive in comparison with bonds or T-bills 
When the computer says switch , Renaissance switches 
Almost all have involved at least half and often the firm 's entire portfolio 
Competing asset-allocation firms march to their own computer models 
Competing asset-allocation firms march to their own computer models , so some have been partly or fully invested in stocks this year 
Competing asset-allocation firms march to their own computer models , so some have been partly or fully invested in stocks this year while Renaissance has sat on the sidelines . 
Mr. Terrizzi confirms some clients have left Renaissance , but no major ones 
David Evans , who last week resigned as president and chief executive of Qintex Entertainment Inc. `` for personal reasons 
David Evans , who last week resigned as president and chief executive of Qintex Entertainment Inc. `` for personal reasons '' just as the company filed for bankruptcy-law protection , has been temporarily reappointed to both positions , the company said . 
Mr. Evans will stay until a successor is found , but not later than the end of the year 
After MGM\/UA terminated the $ 1.5 billion merger because of a dispute over a $ 50 million letter of credit , Qintex Entertainment -- which is 43%-owned by Qintex Australia -- found itself facing problems of its own 
After MGM\/UA terminated the $ 1.5 billion merger because of a dispute over a $ 50 million letter of credit , Qintex Entertainment -- which is 43%-owned by Qintex Australia -- found itself facing problems of its own . 
Qintex Entertainment was depending on Qintex Australia to arrange financing . 
He recommended that the company file for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code before the MCA deadline , according to a source familiar with the sessions . 
Last week the company indicated it would cut back on the working capital it would supply to Qintex Entertainment . 
The Sept. 25 `` Tracking Travel '' column advises readers to `` Charge With Caution 
The Sept. 25 `` Tracking Travel '' column advises readers to `` Charge With Caution When Traveling Abroad 
The Sept. 25 `` Tracking Travel '' column advises readers to `` Charge With Caution When Traveling Abroad '' because credit-card companies charge 1 % to convert foreign-currency expenditures into dollars . 
On top of this , the traveler who converts his dollars into foreign currency 
Typically , he will be billed only several weeks after the expenditure 
Typically , he will be billed only several weeks after the expenditure , and then has another couple of weeks 
Typically , he will be billed only several weeks after the expenditure , and then has another couple of weeks before he has to pay the bill . 
The company said it estimates the Desert Inn remodeling will cost about $ 32 million 
The facility will be marketed toward families 
The prospectus did n't include many details about the studio and theme park 
Assets of the 400 taxable funds tracked by IBC\/Donoghue 's Money Fund Report jumped to $ 351.2 billion in the week ended Tuesday , the Holliston , Mass.-based newsletter said . 
The average seven-day compound yield , which assumes that dividends are reinvested 
Money funds invest in such things as short-term Treasury securities , commercial paper and certificates of deposit , all of which have been posting lower interest rates since last spring . 
Individual investors can still get better yields on money funds than on many other short-term instruments . 
One way that money fund managers boost yields in a declining rate environment is by extending the maturities of their investments 
`` They 're anticipating further declines in rates 
The average 30-day simple yield slid to 8.22 % from 8.26 % 
Many small investors are facing a double whammy this year : They got hurt by investing in the highly risky junk bond market 
Many small investors are facing a double whammy this year : They got hurt by investing in the highly risky junk bond market , and the pain is worse 
Trouble is , junk bond prices have been weak for months . 
Thus , the leverage has amplified the funds ' portfolio losses . 
`` Share prices performed even worse than the funds ' asset values 
Such problems may not be over . 
Leveraged funds in particular `` are still extremely vulnerable 
`` If someone actually sat down and thought about what they were being sold , '' says Gerald Perritt , editor of the Mutual Fund Letter in Chicago , they might shy away 
If the market surges , holders can make that much more profit 
If the market surges , holders can make that much more profit ; the leverage effectively acts as an interest-free margin account for investors . 
But when the market moves against the fund , investors lose more than other junk holders 
But when the market moves against the fund , investors lose more than other junk holders 
`` As long as I am borrowing at 9.9 % and each -LCB- bond -RCB- yields over that , it enhances the yield 
`` As long as I am borrowing at 9.9 % 
Fund managers , for their part , defend their use of leverage . 
Ms. Terry did say the fund 's recent performance `` illustrates what happens in a leveraged product 
`` When the market turns around , '' she says , `` it will give a nice picture '' of how leverage can help performance 
Several leveraged funds do n't want to cut the amount they borrow 
Several leveraged funds do n't want to cut the amount they borrow because it would slash the income they pay shareholders , fund officials said . 
High cash positions help buffer a fund 
Some have raised their cash positions to record levels . 
`` That 's a problem 
At the 50%-leveraged Zenith Income Fund , portfolio manager John Bianchi recently dumped Mesa Petroleum , Wickes and Horsehead Industries , among others , to raise his cash position to a record 15 % . 
`` At some point , if we are unable to cover our leveraged cost -- and at the moment we 're right on it -- we 're going to have to make a move 
`` At some point , if we are unable to cover our leveraged cost -- and at the moment we 're right on it -- we 're going to have to make a move 
One of the more bizarre garden stories since Eden has been unfolding for four years now , in the private paper-and-crayon fantasies of artist Jennifer Bartlett . 
And if she and the Battery Park City Authority have their way , her horticulturally inept plan will soon go public as a real garden `` artwork '' in the downtown complex 
Last year she boasted to HG magazine : `` I 'd never looked at a garden in my life . '' 
The BPCA called its team a `` stunning '' collaboration . 
She has done little more than recycle her standard motifs -- trees , water , landscape fragments , rudimentary square houses , circles , triangles , rectangles -- and fit them into a grid 
She has done little more than recycle her standard motifs -- trees , water , landscape fragments , rudimentary square houses , circles , triangles , rectangles -- and fit them into a grid , as if she were making one of her gridded two-dimensional works for a gallery wall . 
As she put it in a 1987 lecture at the Harvard Graduate School of Design : `` I have designed a garden , not knowing the difference between a rhododendron and a tulip . '' 
Moreover , she proclaimed that `` landscape architects have been going wrong for the last 20 years '' in the design of open space . 
Ms. Bartlett told her audience that she absolutely did not believe in compromise or in giving in to the client 
-LRB- This was never a problem with South Gardens 
This mincemeat of tiny gridlocked squares was inspired by the artist 's own digs : `` My loft was 50 by 100 feet 
Ms. Bartlett blithely suggested calling upon `` semi-skilled garden club workers for maintenance . '' 
Furthermore , she had insisted on paths so narrow -LRB- five to eight feet -RRB- and hedge corners so square that standard maintenance equipment -- trucks or cherry pickers -- could n't maneuver . 
Ms. Bartlett 's little rooms left little room for plants or people . Then , to make these gardenettes quite literally rooms , Ms. Bartlett had thrown up windowless walls -LRB- brick , lattice , hedge -RRB- eight to 10 feet tall , casting her interiors into day-long Stygian shade . 
While the model was still on view , Manhattan Community Board 1 passed a resolution against South Gardens 
Lynden B. Miller , the noted public garden designer who restored Central Park 's Conservatory Garden , recalls her reaction to the South Gardens model in light of the public garden she was designing for 42nd Street 's Bryant Park : `` Bryant Park , as designed in 1933 , failed as a public space 
The three urban horticulture experts with Cornell Cooperative Extension weighed in with a letter to the BPCA that began : `` We feel that the garden is horticulturally doomed . '' 
BPCA President and CEO David Emil hopes to negotiate a seawall that could `` be significantly more visually permeable . '' 
And by substituting yet another landscape architect , Nicholas Quennell , he insists he can achieve that and other accommodations to gardening reality 
After four years of no progress in this direction , it is doubtful any viable collaboration with Ms. Bartlett will suddenly now be possible . 
After four years of no progress in this direction , it is doubtful any viable collaboration with Ms. Bartlett will suddenly now be possible . 
These statesmen might take counsel from William Robinson , author of `` The English Flower Garden '' -- the gardener 's bible since 1883 -- who seems to have had a Jennifer Bartlett in mind when he wrote : `` Unhappily , our gardeners for ages have suffered at the hands of the decorative artist when applying his ` designs ' to the garden ... . 
These statesmen might take counsel from William Robinson , author of `` The English Flower Garden '' -- the gardener 's bible since 1883 -- who seems to have had a Jennifer Bartlett in mind when he wrote : `` Unhappily , our gardeners for ages have suffered at the hands of the decorative artist 
I read the exerpts of Wayne Angell 's exchange with a Gosbank representative -LRB- `` Put the Soviet Economy on Golden Rails , '' editorial page , Oct. 5 -RRB- with great interest 
Mr. Angell is incorrect 
During the latter part of the 19th century , Russia was on a gold standard and had gold reserves representing more than 100 % of its outstanding currency 
During the latter part of the 19th century , Russia was on a gold standard and had gold reserves representing more than 100 % of its outstanding currency , but no one outside Russia used rubles . 
The Bank of England , on the other hand , had gold reserves that averaged about 30 % of its outstanding currency 
The most likely reason for this disparity is that the Bank of England was a private bank with substantial earning assets 
The most likely reason for this disparity is that the Bank of England was a private bank with substantial earning assets , and the common-law rights of creditors to collect claims against the bank were well established in Britain . 
By contrast , in 19th-century Russia an authoritarian government owned the bank and had the power to revoke payment whenever it chose 
It is no coincidence that from 1844 to 1914 , when the Bank of England was an independent private bank , the pound was never devalued 
It is no coincidence that from 1844 to 1914 , when the Bank of England was an independent private bank , the pound was never devalued and payment of gold for pound notes was never suspended 
It is no coincidence that from 1844 to 1914 , when the Bank of England was an independent private bank , the pound was never devalued and payment of gold for pound notes was never suspended , but with the subsequent nationalization of the Bank of England , the pound was devalued with increasing frequency 
The Soviet Union should keep these lessons in mind 
Unless the laws determining the noteholder 's rights to payment are independent of the issuer of those notes , however , a gold-based ruble would be as unsuccessful for the Soviets as it was for the czars 
One way to make the ruble into a major international currency would be to leave reserves of gold and earning assets in a Swiss bank with distributions based on Swiss laws . 
After the SEC study of the drop is completed , he said , `` I 'm perfectly happy to work with this committee ... in identifying whether we need other devices , '' such as a program-trading curb 
Mr. Breeden backed most of the provisions in a market-reform bill that the SEC brought to the subcommittee last year under then-chairman David Ruder . 
He argued that the current circuit-breaker system allows investors to know `` precisely when and where any trading interruptions will occur 
Such loans often are used to finance leveraged buy-outs 
Mr. Breeden offered strong support for two other provisions in the bill . 
In a rare package sale of its real estate , K mart Corp. , Troy , Mich. , has sold 17 of its strip shopping centers to a limited partnership led by New York developer Philip Pilevsky , according to sources familiar with the transaction . 
The company is active in office and residential development in New York . 
`` We just do n't have the staff to -LCB- deliver -RCB- it 
Businesses across the country are getting fed up with junk mail 
While no one has tracked how many company mail rooms throw out junk mail , direct-mail advertising firms say the number is growing 
General Motors earlier this year said it would n't deliver bulk mail or free magazines in its Flint , Mich. , office 
Though direct mail to businesses is n't broken out separately , the association says it 's growing even faster 
The practice of businesses throwing out junk mail `` is a commonly known problem 
The practice of businesses throwing out junk mail `` is a commonly known problem , and it 's increasing 
The practice of businesses throwing out junk mail `` is a commonly known problem , and it 's increasing as companies attempt to put through budget cuts across the board , '' right down to the mail-room level , says Stephen Belth , a list consultant and chairman of the Direct Marketing Association 's business-to-business council . 
`` But it 's like biting the hand that feeds them 
It 's almost impossible to track the number of companies trashing junk mail 
It 's almost impossible to track the number of companies trashing junk mail , since the decision is usually made in the mail room -- not the board room . 
It 's almost impossible to track the number of companies trashing junk mail , since the decision is usually made in the mail room -- not the board room . And the practice often varies from location to location even within a company . 
Magazines are n't delivered at all 
Motorola 's Austin operation was one of the first to lose patience , deciding a few years ago to junk any bulk mail that was n't addressed to an individual . 
At Air Products , meanwhile , the mailroom staff opens junk mail and often throws it away 
`` If they get 50 packets of something , they open one , see what it says , throw 48 away and send two to people or departments they think are appropriate 
Direct marketers were especially alarmed 
Employees were told that if they really wanted the publications , they would have to have them sent home instead 
As of March 1 , its Flint office , with about 2,500 employees , stopped delivering bulk mail and non-subscription magazines . 
Direct-mail executives see GM 's stand as an ominous sign 
`` It smacks of big brotherism . 
Jack Ellis , a U.S. postal inspector in New York , says the Postal Service 's only job is to deliver the mail to the mail room ; once it gets there , a company can do with it what it wishes 
So far , they say , it has n't had any noticeable effect on response rates . 
And before it does , they 're trying to cut back on the clutter that created the situation in the first place 
`` We 're going to have to mail a lot less and a lot smarter , '' says Jack Miller , president of Quill Corp. , a Lincolnshire , Ill. , business-to-business mail-order company . 
But then again , mailing less and smarter wo n't be much help 
One spot shows a Sonata next to a rival midsized car 
As the announcer reads favorable quotes about the model from Motor Trend and Road & Track magazines , the other car , which is white , slowly turns green 
The Chivas ad illustrates -- via a series of pullouts -- the wild reactions from the pool man , gardener and others 
Their reluctance to support the proposal is another blow to the capital-gains cut , which has had a roller-coaster existence since the beginning of the year , when it was considered dead 
Senate Democrats who favor cutting the capital-gains tax are n't ready to line up behind the leading Senate proposal . 
Their tone was good-natured , with Mr. Packwood saying he intended to offer the proposal again and again on future legislation 
Although the proposal , authored by Mr. Packwood and Sen. William Roth -LRB- R. , Del. -RRB- , appears to have general backing by Republicans , their votes are n't sufficient to pass it 
Although the proposal , authored by Mr. Packwood and Sen. William Roth -LRB- R. , Del. -RRB- , appears to have general backing by Republicans , their votes are n't sufficient to pass it . 
The Packwood-Roth proposal would reduce the tax depending on how long an asset was held . 
`` A number of us are not going to touch capital gains , IRAs or anything else 
President Bush has been hearing this kind of opposition first hand during meetings over the past two days with Democratic senators at the White House . 
White House officials acknowledged yesterday that Democrats still are reluctant to publicly express support for the Packwood-Roth capital gains proposal 
White House officials acknowledged yesterday that Democrats still are reluctant to publicly express support for the Packwood-Roth capital gains proposal because they are loath to buck Sen. Mitchell . 
White House officials acknowledged yesterday that Democrats still are reluctant to publicly express support for the Packwood-Roth capital gains proposal because they are loath to buck Sen. Mitchell . 
If they ca n't secure immediate passage of a capital-gains plan , administration officials also are n't ruling out making a deal with Congress to put off a vote until a firm date in the future , even next year 
In addition , White House aides think that there are numerous other important measures Democrats badly wanted passed -- such as the scaling back of a controversial catastrophic health-care plan for the elderly -- that might provide the president leverage in cutting deals with Democrats . 
If they ca n't secure immediate passage of a capital-gains plan , administration officials also are n't ruling out making a deal with Congress to put off a vote until a firm date in the future , even next year . 
During the past administration the foodstuffs were first bought by the institute 
A black-draped cruise liner sailed into Naples yesterday bringing 800 Libyans threatening vengeance 
Libya 's revolutionary Committees have threatened attacks on Italians 
Libya 's revolutionary Committees have threatened attacks on Italians if Rome does n't pay compensation . 
Canadian Indians are taking five countries to court in a bid to stop low military flights over their homes , the Dutch Defense Ministry said . 
Japan suspended imports of French mushrooms 
In 1986 , some institute patients were reporting breakthrough seizures 
In 1986 , some institute patients were reporting breakthrough seizures when they were switched from a specific brand-name medication to a generic one or from one generic manufacturer of a specific product to another . 
Call it anecdotal 
Call it anecdotal if you will . 
The funds received from pharmaceutical firms are used to offset physician symposiums 
This perhaps was perceived as a `` bold '' stance , and thus suspicious . 
The Excalibur , with a castlelike hotel , jousting tournaments and other Arthurian attractions , will be able to handle up to 30,000 visitors a day 
If MGM Grand Inc. proceeds with its plan for an amusement park -- a $ 700 million movieland resort with a working studio , casino and 5,000-room hotel that would become Las Vegas 's biggest -- the investment in the three properties will total some $ 1.6 billion 
`` If you create a wonderment 
`` If you create a wonderment , if you create something so exciting that the public dreams of being part of it 
Hotel-casino operators play down the possibility of a labor shortage . After all , 40,000 newcomers a year are settling in the Las Vegas Valley . 
`` If you build a better mousetrap , it will catch more mice 
`` I 'd love it 
Casinos today offer bowling alleys , water parks , golf courses , tennis courts , lush swimming pools and other diversions 
Casinos today offer bowling alleys , water parks , golf courses , tennis courts , lush swimming pools and other diversions , and more such facilities are being designed . 
A serious economic downturn , pessimists observe , could hurt the expansionists . 
This is no place for pedestrians 
The ferocious competition probably will drive some poorly managed properties into bankruptcy or new ownership . 
Even before the huge new projects began , the Strip 's recent expansion squeezed smaller competitors 
Many people here expect a room-rate war 
`` There 's probably going to be some pressure on occupancy and room rates over the next year 
Mr. Wynn seems confident that it will produce a healthy profit 
Its parking lot is inconvenient , the MGM lion's-head logo still appears in places 
It has a `` great location 
It has a `` great location , but they 're going to have some real problems 
It has a `` great location , but they 're going to have some real problems when everyone around them opens , '' says Daniel Lee , a Drexel analyst . 
`` If you do n't know what you are , bigger wo n't make you better 
`` If you do n't know what you are , bigger wo n't make you better , '' he says . 
The Circus Circus lures them with low room rates , inexpensive buffets and entertainment for children at no extra charge . 
Some casino owners have resisted the temptation to add rooms . 
While his company 's hotel is building a retail complex in Beverly Hills style and redoing existing rooms , it has decreased the number of its rooms 
Caesars has made a specialty of catering to high rollers from abroad 
Caesars has made a specialty of catering to high rollers from abroad , who are also being aggressively courted by the Mirage , the Las Vegas Hilton and others . 
`` The days when when the thrust of casinos was all high rollers , with no windows and clocks and lots of red and black decor , are gone , '' Mr. Sain of the visitors ' bureau says . 
Every Bill which shall have passed the House of Representatives and the Senate , shall , before it becomes a Law , be presented to the President of the United States 
Every Bill which shall have passed the House of Representatives and the Senate , shall , before it becomes a Law , be presented to the President of the United States ; If he approve he shall sign it 
Every Bill which shall have passed the House of Representatives and the Senate , shall , before it becomes a Law , be presented to the President of the United States ; If he approve he shall sign it 
If after such Reconsideration two thirds of that House shall agree to pass the Bill , it shall be sent , together with the Objections , to the other House , by which it shall likewise be reconsidered 
Every Bill which shall have passed the House of Representatives and the Senate , shall , before it becomes a Law , be presented to the President of the United States ; If he approve he shall sign it , but if not he shall return it , with his Objections to that House in which it shall have originated , who shall enter the Objections at large on their Journal , and proceed to reconsider it . 
If after such Reconsideration two thirds of that House shall agree to pass the Bill , it shall be sent , together with the Objections , to the other House , by which it shall likewise be reconsidered 
If after such Reconsideration two thirds of that House shall agree to pass the Bill , it shall be sent , together with the Objections , to the other House , by which it shall likewise be reconsidered , and if approved by two thirds of that House , it shall become a Law 
Every Order , Resolution , or Vote to which the Concurrence of the Senate and House of Representatives may be necessary -LRB- except on a question of Adjournment -RRB- shall be presented to the President of the United States ; and before the Same shall take Effect , shall be approved by him 
On Tuesday , the subject came up again 
President Bush does n't have any provision in mind 
The 1974 budget `` reform , '' passed over President Nixon 's veto , took away the presidential impoundment power 
Finding a test case should n't be hard 
The White House had the perfect case 
The White House had the perfect case , but Congress blinked 
After the HUD and S&L stories broke , some Congressmen began to worry that their influence peddling at executive-branch and independent agencies might some day get them in trouble 
When it threatened to use this provision as the test for a line-item veto , Congress caved 
If the White House is looking for another unconstitutional bill , Rep. John Dingell is trying again to raise the Fairness Doctrine from the dead 
The `` Fairness '' Doctrine 's enthusiasts are incumbents in the House who know the rules squelch lively discussions on broadcasts , deterring feisty challengers . 
Unconstitutional bills make good legal targets 
Commenting on the budget mess this week , President Bush said : `` The perception out there is that it 's the fault of Congress . 
Congress is in no position to naysay Mr. Bush 
Congress may have lost any sense of discipline 
President Bush has the power to change how Washington works 
The leveraged buy-out firm of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. , which owns 46 % of the common equity of SCI TV , indicated in the debt plan that it would reduce its equity stake to 15 % , giving the rest of its stake to bondholders in the restructuring . 
KKR also signaled to the company 's creditors that Henry Kravis and other KKR directors of SCI TV would resign from the board 
Investors interpreted the KKR move as a desire by the firm to wash its hands of SCI TV . 
KKR already has made about $ 1 billion of gains from earlier transactions with SCI TV 
KKR would give up a 31 % equity stake to bondholders 
While one big SCI TV investor thinks that 's pretty generous , many junkholders had been hoping that KKR and Mr. Gillett would invest new money in SCI TV 
SCI TV 's debt restructuring plan would defer payment of $ 153 million of bank debt . 
At the same time , investors estimate the restructuring would cut the company 's annual cash interest bill from about $ 90 million to $ 85 million . 
Although their ads picture curvy young people in skimpy outfits , club owners know the future lies with the lumpier over-40 set 
Topaz , a translucent mineral that is often whitish 
`` We believe that the vast majority of imported material is safe . 
Mr. Hickey added that the stones found in Hong Kong are thought to carry double the U.S. radiation limit 
CAPITAL TRAVELS to Europe 
DRACULA 'S BUSY this time of year 
AM radio , which has been losing listeners to FM channels since the 1970s , approaches the 1990s with a diminished voice . 
The commission believes that improving AM service would broaden listening selections and increase options for advertisers . 
The FM radio band , considered technically superior 
AM stereo remains largely undeveloped 
Listeners turned to radios run on batteries for news 
Several big securities firms backed off from program trading a few months after the 1987 crash . 
`` Index arbitrage does n't work 
While Mr. Timbers explained he 's `` not totally convinced index arbitrage changes the overall level of the stock market , '' he said that `` on an intraday basis , it has major effects 
We 've talked to proponents of index arbitrage and told them to cool it 
They said , ` Too bad 
Kemper Financial Services Inc. , charging that program trading is ruining the stock market , cut off four big Wall Street firms from doing any of its stock-trading business . 
`` It has never been interested in what we think . 
`` The impression I 've got is they 'd love to do away with it -LCB- program trading -RCB- 
He said the market 's volatility disturbs him 
`` We would stop index arbitrage 
`` We would stop index arbitrage when the market is under stress 
He added that `` having just one firm do this is n't going to mean a hill of beans . 
But if this prompts others to consider the same thing 
There are $ 12,915,000 of 7 % term certificates due 2007 , priced to yield 7.15 % . 
`` The dress business has always been a gamble 
Next week , the country 's top designers and manufacturers will begin showing fashions for spring 1990 , the second most important selling season of the year . 
And as the applause dies down in showrooms along Seventh Avenue and Broadway , stylishly clad Campeau buyers will begin writing orders 
Many manufacturers are worried about being paid for merchandise already shipped to Campeau stores . 
What happens to me 
Other credit houses , such as Credit Exchange and Solo Credit Service Corp. , are suggesting that their clients study each order 
`` Payments are good right now 
Because of those concerns , some manufacturers say they will ask for letters of credit 
`` We 're being paid today 
If I need to ask for money up front later , I will 
I 'm going to ship and hope I get paid . 
`` They continue to pay their bills and will do so , '' says Ms. Sanger . 
If goods are shipped to Bloomingdale 's between Oct. 1 and Oct. 20 , manufacturers expect to be paid by Nov. 10 
Typically , manufacturers are paid 10 days after the month in which they ship . 
`` We expect they will be current with their debts by the end of the week 
`` We expect they will be current with their debts by the end of the week , but we are considering asking them for letters of credit 
Not only does your product have to be excellent 
I 've got limited production 
As for Mr. Levy at St. Gillian , he says he will maintain his credit lines with the various Campeau stores 
`` If they slip for 10 cents for 10 minutes , I 'll stop 
Bethlehem Steel Corp. , hammered by higher costs and lower shipments to key automotive and service-center customers , posted a 54 % drop in third-quarter profit . 
`` It does n't bode well for coming quarters , '' said John Jacobson , who follows the steel industry for AUS Consultants . 
It has n't diversified beyond steel 
Of all the major steelmakers , Bethlehem would seem to be the most vulnerable to a slowdown . 
However , in spite of the difficult industrywide environment of high cost and low volume , Bethlehem `` had pretty good earnings numbers , '' said Michelle Galanter Applebaum , an analyst with Salomon Brothers Inc . 
`` We anticipate that steel market conditions will exhibit a further moderate decline in the fourth quarter 
`` We anticipate that steel market conditions will exhibit a further moderate decline in the fourth quarter as the automotive sector remains weak 
`` We anticipate that steel market conditions will exhibit a further moderate decline in the fourth quarter as the automotive sector remains weak and customers continue to adjust inventories , '' said Bethlehem Chairman Walter F. Williams . 
Sales dropped to $ 441.1 million from $ 820.4 million 
Along with reduced volume , analysts said the nation 's fifth largest steelmaker was hurt by holding higher-cost inventory 
Along with reduced volume , analysts said the nation 's fifth largest steelmaker was hurt by holding higher-cost inventory when raw material costs of such key products as nickel dropped . 
The company noted that its Fox-Meyer Drug Co. , Ben Franklin Stores Inc. and Permian Corp. operations showed improvements as a result of restructuring moves . 
International Business Machines Corp. said it agreed to let Motorola Inc. participate in a semiconductor research project as part of its effort to bolster the U.S. semiconductor industry . 
IBM , which made the announcement at the dedication of a research center here , said it invited many other companies to participate as well , including some from Europe . 
IBM , which said a year ago it was inviting companies to participate in some semiconductor work , has become far more open about its technology 
While IBM , Armonk , N.Y. , makes the bulk of the DRAMs it uses , it does n't make the equipment needed to produce those chips 
While IBM , Armonk , N.Y. , makes the bulk of the DRAMs it uses , it does n't make the equipment needed to produce those chips . 
And IBM worries that the Japanese will take over that equipment market , too 
International Business Machines Corp. said it agreed to let Motorola Inc. participate in a semiconductor research project as part of its effort to bolster the U.S. semiconductor industry . 
IBM said it expects industrywide efforts to become prevalent 
A state-of-the-art plant cost $ 40 million in the mid-1970s but costs $ 500 million today 
IBM said it expects industrywide efforts to become prevalent because semiconductor manufacturing has become so expensive . 
IBM , which said Motorola is paying just a nominal fee to cover the 21-month agreement , acknowledged some companies had turned down its invitation to join in . 
But it said that was 
IBM said it thought more companies would become interested 
Currently , chips are produced by shining light through a mask to produce an image on the chip , much as a camera produces an image on film . 
But details on chips must now be extraordinarily fine 
But details on chips must now be extraordinarily fine , and the wavelengths of even ultraviolet light are long enough 
But details on chips must now be extraordinarily fine , and the wavelengths of even ultraviolet light are long enough so that the images they draw may be too blurry -- much as someone using a wide paintbrush could produce a broad line but would have trouble painting a thin one . 
X-rays have problems , too . 
The airborne system operates independent of ground-based radar systems , informing pilots of nearby aircraft , Allied-Signal said . 
Bertin Nadeau , newly appointed chairman and interim chief executive of Provigo , would n't say if Mr. Lortie was asked to leave . 
Mr. Lortie 's departure , while sudden , was seen as inevitable in light of the shift in strategy 
`` The non-food operations were largely Mr. Lortie 's creation 
Mr. Nadeau said he intends to remain Provigo 's chief executive 
Comments by Federal Reserve Board Chairman Alan Greenspan lent some support to the dollar 
In perhaps his most telling remark , Mr. Greenspan termed the current U.S. inflation rate of around 4.5 % as `` much too high to be ignored . '' 
The dollar climbed immediately higher on news of Mr. Greenspan 's testimony , settling lower in later trade 
Many traders forecast a continuation of the market 's recent bearish trend and predict the U.S. currency will remain stuck in its relatively narrow ranges in the near term 
Many traders forecast a continuation of the market 's recent bearish trend and predict the U.S. currency will remain stuck in its relatively narrow ranges in the near term and then shift lower . 
But according to Doug Madison , a corporate trader with Bank of America in Los Angeles , a large number of short positions must first be corrected 
Market participants hope today 's GNP report will offer more substantial evidence on U.S. economic growth 
Some dealers note that while the third-quarter figures may appear relatively bullish -- the market consensus calls for a 2.5 % annual growth rate , unchanged from the second-quarter rate -- it would take a significantly stronger figure to alter market perceptions that the economy is softening 
Lawrence Insurance Group Inc. said it acquired United Republic Reinsurance Co. , a Houston property and casualty reinsurance company , from United Savings Association of Texas for $ 28 million . 
By acquiring the shares , Lawrence Group increased its stake in Lawrence Insurance to 93.2 % from 91.2 % . 
Wall Street would like UAL Corp. 's board to change its mind about keeping the company independent . 
Some people familiar with the situation believe that the collapse of the previous $ 6.79 billion buy-out , if anything , may have strengthened the hands of these two labor groups . 
One reason : banks -- likely to react to any new UAL deal with even more caution than the first time around -- probably will insist on labor harmony 
`` If you have both -LCB- labor -RCB- groups on strike , you 've got no revenue 
`` If you have both -LCB- labor -RCB- groups on strike , you 've got no revenue 
Just this past week , a leading Japanese bank asked for a meeting with the machinists ' union leaders to determine where the union would stand 
Another reason : Emboldened by their success in helping to scuttle the previous transaction , the machinists are likely to be more aggressive 
The two unions already had significant leverage 
That gives them both the threat of a strike and the ability to resist any wage concessions that may be necessary to make a transaction work . 
Mr. Nye thinks the UAL board should be ousted 
`` The pilots will be involved in any transaction that takes place around here , '' pilot union chairman Frederick C. Dubinsky declared yesterday . 
The pilots ' Mr. Dubinsky says his union would like majority ownership for employees . 
On the other hand , the machinists have always opposed majority ownership in principle , saying they do n't think employees should be owners . 
If a compromise ca n't be reached , the pilots maintain they can do a transaction without the support of the machinists 
If a compromise ca n't be reached , the pilots maintain they can do a transaction without the support of the machinists . 
The machinists lobbied heavily against the original bid from UAL pilots and management for the company . Their opposition helped scare off some Japanese banks . 
Ms. Browning says she believes a recapitalization involving employee ownership would succeed 
Ms. Browning says she believes a recapitalization involving employee ownership would succeed only if the pilots relent on their demand for control . 
She also notes that even if the pilots accept a minority stake now , they still could come back at a later time and try to take control 
The group did n't make a formal offer 
The group did n't make a formal offer 
The group did n't make a formal offer , but instead told UAL 's advisers before the most-recent board meeting that it was working on a bid valued at between $ 225 and $ 240 a share . 
Passenger traffic jumped 14 % in the quarter 
Although Eastern is back to about 80 % of its pre-strike schedule now , the Texas Air Corp. subsidiary was only beginning to get back on its feet during the quarter 
Delta Air Lines earnings soared 33 % to a record in the fiscal first quarter , bucking the industry trend toward declining profits . 
In the U.S. , the Hartford Courant has a facsimile edition 
It was the first management change 
The results include a $ 130.2 million write-down of the securities in the high-yield portfolio to the lower of their cost or market value . 
Previously , Columbia did n't have to adjust the book value of its junk-bond holdings to reflect declines in market prices 
Because Columbia now must sell the bonds within five years , accounting rules require the thrift to value the bonds at the lower of cost or market prices 
The loss stems from $ 357.5 million of write-downs on Columbia 's $ 4.4 billion high-yield investment securities portfolio , which includes about $ 3.7 billion of junk bonds , $ 400 million of preferred stock , and Treasury securities . 
Thomas Spiegel , Columbia 's chairman , said in a statement that the thrift was `` disappointed '' by the effects of the accounting changes . 
The price of Columbia shares has been cut nearly in half since August 
Columbia officials said they do n't know how quickly they will dispose of the thrift 's junk bonds 
Columbia officials said they do n't know how quickly they will dispose of the thrift 's junk bonds , because federal regulations , such as those that would allow thrifts to continue holding the bonds in separately capitalized subsidiaries , have n't yet been completed . 
Its ratio of tangible equity to total assets as of Sept. 30 was 3.6 % 
Although many of the transactions related to those securities have n't been completed , Columbia said the ultimate gain on the sale of those assets will range from $ 200 million to $ 300 million 
Although many of the transactions related to those securities have n't been completed , Columbia said the ultimate gain on the sale of those assets will range from $ 200 million to $ 300 million . 
Anheuser-Busch Cos. said it plans to aggressively discount its major beer brands , setting the stage for a potentially bruising price war 
Anheuser , the world 's largest brewer and U.S. market leader , has historically been reluctant to engage in price-cutting as a means of boosting sales volume . 
Anheuser noted that `` beer industry sales volume is 1989 is following the trend that has characterized the last half of the '80s , with sales volume being essentially flat 
`` Anheuser is the biggest guy in the bar 
Mr. Thompson noted that the disappointing earnings , which fell five cents a share short of his own projections , contributed to the sell-off by an edgy and currently unforgiving investing public . 
While the third-quarter earnings were a `` moderate disappointment , '' he said , `` the real bad news is the intensity of price competition '' in the premium-beer sector 
On Wednesday , the market opened bullishly with high turnover , ignoring the volatility in New York stocks . 
Some traders noted individual investors dumped NTT shares amid growing expectation for a division of the company as suggested by a recent government-sponsored panel . 
Among pharmaceutical shares , Chugai lost 60 yen to 2,290 yen -LRB- $ 16.20 -RRB- 
Toyota Motor fell 40 to 2,680 . Sekisui House , which gained 150 Tuesday , lost 70 to 2640 . Other losing issues included Showa Shell , which fell 40 to 1,520 . 
Daiwa House also ended easier 
Pioneer was down 90 at 5,810 
London share prices closed modestly higher largely on technical factors 
The late buying was drawn into the London market 
Jaguar was boosted 21 to 715 on follow-through buying 
Equities tumbled at the opening 
`` All the positive figures on the economy are out already 
`` All the positive figures on the economy are out already , and people are focusing more on the dangers for next year , mostly the wage talks and the -LCB- parliamentary -RCB- elections , '' the U.S. trader said . 
They said they expect the bearish mood to persist a while longer 
They said they expect the bearish mood to persist a while longer , as trading volume is falling toward the end of the year 
In the auto sector , Bayerische Motoren Werke plunged 14.5 marks to 529 marks -LRB- $ 288 -RRB- , Daimler-Benz dropped 10.5 to 700 
Continental gave up some of its recent gains , dropping 8 to 338 
Other banks were slightly more resilient , with Dresdner Bank shedding 4.8 to 320 
Tokyo stocks closed easier for the second consecutive day , finishing at the intraday low on index-linked investment trust fund selling toward the end of the afternoon session . Stocks rose in London , but fell again in Frankfurt . 
Democrats voted to override by a 3-1 margin 
To gain more leverage , abortion-rights advocates may seek to fold the bill into an omnibus continuing resolution next month . 
`` Unless he changes , they lose 
The action came 
By a lopsided 97-1 margin , the Senate approved the measure 
By a lopsided 97-1 margin , the Senate approved the measure after attaching further provisions sought by the influential California delegation 
The package is more than $ 1 billion above the recommendations of Budget Director Richard Darman this week . 
The $ 2.85 billion measure comes on top of $ 1.1 billion appropriated 
The $ 2.85 billion measure comes on top of $ 1.1 billion appropriated after Hugo struck the Carolinas and Caribbean last month 
In direct cash assistance , $ 1 billion is provided in federal highway construction funds 
The emergency assistance would n't be counted against a state 's normal allocation of annual highway funds 
The underlying stopgap bill is the second required by Congress this fall 
The underlying stopgap bill is the second required by Congress this fall and , since the current fiscal year began Oct. 1 , only the Energy and Interior departments are operating on permanent appropriations enacted into law 
The standoff over abortion is certain to contribute to further delays 
The vote yesterday was the most partisan in many years 
The vote yesterday was the most partisan in many years , and though the Democratic leadership is ambivalent about how to address the abortion issue , the debate is increasingly measured in party terms 
The vote yesterday was the most partisan in many years , and though the Democratic leadership is ambivalent about how to address the abortion issue , the debate is increasingly measured in party terms . 
At a recent White House meeting , Rep. Silvio Conte -LRB- R. , Mass. -RRB- , the ranking minority member of the House Appropriations Committee , argued with his friend Mr. Bush against a veto 
At a recent White House meeting , Rep. Silvio Conte -LRB- R. , Mass. -RRB- , the ranking minority member of the House Appropriations Committee , argued with his friend Mr. Bush against a veto , and though Mr. Conte and Minority Leader Robert Michel of Illinois stood with the president yesterday , they are plainly uncomfortable with his position 
`` This is n't a political issue , this is a moral issue , '' said Rep. Henry Hyde -LRB- R. , Ill. -RRB- , the most eloquent spokesman for the anti-abortion movement . 
`` This may not make George Bush a one-term president , '' said the Oregon liberal , addressing the Republican side of the House . 
`` But if you support him over rape victims , this may be your last term 
The action came as Congress sent to the president last night a stopgap spending bill to keep the government operating through Nov. 15 and provide $ 2.85 billion in emergency funds to assist in the recovery from Hurricane Hugo and the California earthquake . 
The current ceiling on home loans insured by the Federal Housing Administration would be increased to $ 124,875 
By a 325-92 margin , the Appropriations Committee leadership beat back an early challenge by House Banking Chairman Henry Gonzalez -LRB- D. , Texas -RRB- to the FHA provision . 
The transaction called for Mr. Murdoch 's News International PLC , a unit of Australia-based News Corp. , to subscribe to a rights issue by Zeta valued at 6.65 billion pesetas -LRB- $ 57 million -RRB- . 
The New York Stock Exchange is expected to launch its own program trading vehicle today 
ESPs will allow institutional investors to buy or sell all 500 stocks in Standard & Poor 's index in a single trade of a minimum of $ 5 million . 
The Securities and Exchange Commission gave provisional six-month approval to the Big Board basket at a meeting late yesterday . The SEC at the same time approved a similar but smaller basket product on the Chicago Board Options Exchange , where the minimum will be $ 1.7 million . 
New SEC Chairman Richard Breeden , overseeing his first public meeting , said there have been concerns that the Big Board 's basket could attract investors with a `` short-term perspective '' who would rapidly turn over the product 
New SEC Chairman Richard Breeden , overseeing his first public meeting , said there have been concerns that the Big Board 's basket could attract investors with a `` short-term perspective '' who would rapidly turn over the product , thus increasing volatility . 
The baskets on the Big Board and CBOE -- which involve the actual S&P stocks , unlike the stock-index contracts currently traded on the Chicago futures markets , and index options on the CBOE -- will begin trading 
The Big Board argues that its new product will help rather than hurt the situation by possibly drawing business from more-volatile forms of program trading . 
ESPs are also an attempt by the Big Board to head off the exodus of program trading business to overseas markets such as London . 
The new stock baskets `` are going to make it easier for program trading to be done . 
Kidder , Peabody & Co. , a General Electric Co. unit that has become the biggest program trader along with Morgan Stanley , is n't a market maker 
Kidder , Peabody & Co. , a General Electric Co. unit that has become the biggest program trader along with Morgan Stanley , is n't a market maker , although the Big Board hopes that will change . 
Traders said major securities firms are reluctant to become market makers 
Even though the Big Board says its product represents a post-crash `` reform , '' some traders suggest that if the new basket had been trading during this month 's Friday the 13th market plunge , the Dow Jones Industrial Average might have dropped more than the 190 points it did 
Even though the Big Board says its product represents a post-crash `` reform , '' some traders suggest that if the new basket had been trading during this month 's Friday the 13th market plunge , the Dow Jones Industrial Average might have dropped more than the 190 points it did 
`` If we had the baskets , we would be leaving in caskets 
Comprehensive Care said First Hospital had advised it that both bank debt and senior notes would be repaid after the acquisition 
If it is n't completed , Comprehensive Care said it would be `` required to promptly restructure its debt 
First Hospital advised Comprehensive Care that an agent for the financial institutions providing financing of its acquisition is scheduled to make a final credit determination tomorrow 
First Hospital advised Comprehensive Care that an agent for the financial institutions providing financing of its acquisition is scheduled to make a final credit determination tomorrow , and that a favorable determination could result in a reorganization at Comprehensive Care `` by the end of October . '' 
In composite trading yesterday on the New York Stock Exchange , Comprehensive Care shares plunged $ 3.625 to close at $ 4.75 on volume of 1,177,000 shares . 
Separately , First Hospital reported a 1.6 % rise in net income to $ 6.1 million for its year ended June 30 on a 27 % increase in revenue to $ 110.6 million . 
In the SEC filing , the Kass-Pedone group said it intends to acquire additional H.H. Robertson shares `` with a view towards a possible change in control of the company . '' 
In the SEC filing , the Kass-Pedone group said it intends to acquire additional H.H. Robertson shares `` with a view towards a possible change in control of the company . '' 
The group also is engaged in talks with third parties regarding obtaining financing to buy more shares 
After coming close to a partial settlement a year ago , shareholders who filed civil suits against Ivan F. Boesky and the partnerships he once controlled again are approaching an accord 
After coming close to a partial settlement a year ago , shareholders who filed civil suits against Ivan F. Boesky and the partnerships he once controlled again are approaching an accord , people familiar with the case said . 
Attorneys involved in the talks said that the parties were closer to accord than they were a year ago , when reports of an imminent agreement circulated . 
Some claim they suffered losses 
Some claim they suffered losses because they sold 
Some claim they suffered losses because they sold while he was buying 
Some claim they suffered losses because they sold while he was buying and others 
Some claim they suffered losses because they sold while he was buying and others because they bought 
Individuals familiar with the negotiations said the partial settlement being negotiated would remove the Boesky partnership , the British fund and Mr. Boesky as defendants 
It has been three years 
After coming close to a partial settlement a year ago , shareholders who filed civil suits against Ivan F. Boesky and the partnerships he once controlled again are approaching an accord , people familiar with the case said . 
This is 
Mr. Ferguson , who is 68 years old , fled the U.S. in 1970 
Because the federal Freedom of Information Act was n't law at that time , the FBI was n't required to turn over information on its investigations when Mr. Ferguson appealed his conviction in the 1960s 
Because the federal Freedom of Information Act was n't law at that time , the FBI was n't required to turn over information on its investigations 
Because the federal Freedom of Information Act was n't law at that time , the FBI was n't required to turn over information on its investigations when Mr. Ferguson appealed his conviction in the 1960s . 
The judge said that if the FBI 's proposed schedule was followed in releasing the documents , `` a delay of over one year will have occurred and plaintiff will have served approximately two-thirds of his 3 1\/2-year minimum sentence by the time he receives the files 
The judge said that if the FBI 's proposed schedule was followed in releasing the documents , `` a delay of over one year will have occurred 
Standard cases would require less judicial attention 
The Washington , D.C. , think tank recommends that the courts adopt different `` tracks '' for different types of civil cases in order to separate the handling of highly complex suits from simpler ones . 
The study also said each federal court should set strict time limits for the pretrial exchange of documents and evidence , ranging from as much as 100 days for cases in the fast track to as much as 18 months for complex disputes . 
Although some of the study 's recommendations resemble those of similar projects , the makeup of the task force was unusually diverse 
In the last hour of the trading day , December contract took a tumble to end the session 10 cents lower at $ 19.62 a barrel . 
And now that the price has fallen below $ 19.65 , which many had said showed considerable resistance , some traders and analysts figure there 's little to stop the price from going lower on technical decisions 
With no petroleum-related news or changes in the fundamentals to dictate price moves , `` technicians are wanting to sell this stuff , '' said Eric Bolling of Edge Trading Corp . 
That level of production is n't of much concern 
That level of production is n't of much concern as long as demand continues strong , analysts said . 
But the first quarter of the year is generally the weakest 
But the first quarter of the year is generally the weakest and OPEC production does n't seem to be slackening in anticipation of that . 
Soybean and corn futures prices moved higher on the strength of buying from commodity pool managers trying to profit from technical price trends , as well as continued export strength . 
Soybean and corn futures prices moved higher on the strength of buying from commodity pool managers trying to profit from technical price trends , as well as continued export strength . 
As for corn and soybean futures , `` a lot of commission house buying this morning and computer-driven buying '' supported prices in early trading , said Steven Freed , a futures analyst with Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. in Chicago . 
`` Russian ships are arriving in the gulf 
Futures prices rose modestly 
The December contract settled at 73.97 cents a pound , up 0.59 cent 
Traders who had sold contracts earlier , in hopes of buying them back at lower prices , yesterday were buying contracts back at higher prices to limit their losses 
Several cotton analysts said that the move appeared to be mostly technical . 
One floor trader said that if there were Chinese purchases , they should have had a bigger effect on the market 
Another said that if China was a buyer , it would be the earliest that country had made purchases since the 1979-80 crop year , and thus would be a bullish sign 
Another said that if China was a buyer , it would be the earliest that country had made purchases since the 1979-80 crop year 
This trader characterized the recent price action as a contest between the fundamentalists , who see higher prices ahead , and the technicians , who are basically buying cotton toward the bottom of the current trading range , around 71 cents , and selling it 
This trader said that he thought the market would turn aggressively bullish from a technical standpoint 
This trader said that he thought the market would turn aggressively bullish from a technical standpoint if the December contract was able to exceed 75.75 cents . 
He said that if little cocoa actually has arrived at the ports , shipping delays could result 
He said that if little cocoa actually has arrived at the ports , shipping delays could result . 
There was also some fear that without Ivory Coast cocoa a large French cocoa merchant , Cie . Financiere Sucre et Denrees , might not be able to deliver cocoa against the contracts it had sold earlier for December delivery in London . 
Cargill thinks that even though the merchant has a contract stating that it wo n't bring this cocoa to market until after March 1991 , there is some evidence the contract has been modified 
This modification , apparently , would permit the French merchant to deliver this cocoa , if necessary , against existing short positions 
He could n't be reached 
Joseph W. Robertson , 61 , was dismissed from those posts , the company said . 
Earlier this month IMA , an investment group that includes Chicago 's Pritzker family and First Boston Corp. , submitted a reduced bid for American Medical 
Under the new offer , IMA will pay $ 26.50 a share for 63 million shares , or about 86 % of the shares outstanding . 
American Medical International Inc. said it has n't received any other offers to acquire the owner and operator of hospitals , and took another step toward completion of its $ 3 billion acquisition by IMA Holdings Corp . 
Earlier , American Medical said it had been approached again by two other possible suitors , whom it would n't identify 
American Medical International Inc. said it has n't received any other offers to acquire the owner and operator of hospitals , and took another step toward completion of its $ 3 billion acquisition by IMA Holdings Corp . 
The ratings concern said the acquisition should result in pretax losses from operations because of increases in interest expense and charges for depreciation and amortization 
It has said it might seek bankruptcy-court protection from creditor lawsuits 
Keith A. Tucker was named a director of this insurance and financial services concern . 
Beghin-Say S.A. said that it plans to sell its remaining paper operations by the end of January as part of a drive to refocus on the food sector and lower its debt . 
The other part of the transaction will see Beghin-Say sell its 50 % stake in its Kaysersberg paper affiliate to an unspecified unit of the petrochemical group Montedison S.p . A. , which is also controlled by Ferruzzi . 
Esselte AB , the Stockholm office supplies company , as expected , proposed to acquire the 22 % it does n't own of its U.S. unit , Esselte Business Systems Inc . 
Although conferees are still putting the finishing touches on the package , the final agreement could be announced as early as tomorrow 
Although conferees are still putting the finishing touches on the package , the final agreement could be announced as early as tomorrow . 
The Senate voted to authorize $ 4.5 billion for SDI spending in the current fiscal year 
The package `` provides a temporary , golden parachute for Grumman , '' according to one congressional aide familiar with the closed-door bargaining . 
Defense Secretary Dick Cheney and most senators contend that the Navy 's F-14 is too expensive in an era of shrinking Pentagon budgets . 
House and Senate conferees agreed to continue production of Grumman Corp. 's F-14 and to provide more than $ 3.8 billion for the Strategic Defense Initiative during the current fiscal year . 
Conferees also agreed to Pentagon requests to earmark a total of nearly $ 1 billion for work on both mobile MX and Midgetman nuclear missiles , according to congressional aides . 
The final B-2 agreement is certain to require detailed testing and verification of the bomber 's capabilities 
The final B-2 agreement is certain to require detailed testing and verification of the bomber 's capabilities , but congressional aides said the accord wo n't include a House-passed provision that would have withheld production funds 
Consolidated Freightways Inc. reported a 77 % drop in third-quarter net income , citing expected losses in its Emery Worldwide shipping business . 
Analysts had expected Consolidated to post a slim profit 
The Dow Jones Industrial Average , which plunged more than 80 points in early trading Tuesday 
The lower boundary was established just after the opening in a brief round of selling ; the upper boundary was set at midday 
The Dow Jones Equity Market Index fell 1.16 to 320.94 
The Dow Jones Equity Market Index fell 1.16 to 320.94 and the New York Stock Exchange Composite Index slid 0.53 to 189.52 . 
The programs occurred against the backdrop of a late pullback in UAL , which had held at slightly lower levels through most of the session amid optimism that another bidder might surface . 
Traders said program activity was n't in evidence through most of the session , however 
Traders said program activity was n't in evidence through most of the session , however , and Big Board volume dropped to 155,650,000 shares from about 238 million Tuesday 
The gross national product report , due to be released 
Du Pont , which announced plans for a 3-for-1 stock split and raised its quarterly dividend by 14 % , jumped 2 1\/2 to 117 3\/8 . 
Du Pont , which announced plans for a 3-for-1 stock split and raised its quarterly dividend by 14 % , jumped 2 1\/2 to 117 3\/8 . 
American Telephone & Telegraph rose 3\/8 to 43 1\/2 in Big Board composite trading of 1.5 million shares , Chevron advanced 1 3\/4 to 66 5\/8 on 2.3 million shares , Woolworth rose 1 to 58 5\/8 , Coca-Cola Co. gained 5\/8 to 72 1\/2 
American Telephone & Telegraph rose 3\/8 to 43 1\/2 in Big Board composite trading of 1.5 million shares , Chevron advanced 1 3\/4 to 66 5\/8 on 2.3 million shares , Woolworth rose 1 to 58 5\/8 , Coca-Cola Co. gained 5\/8 to 72 1\/2 and Eastman Kodak added 3\/8 to 44 1\/2 . 
Its third-quarter earnings were lower than analysts had forecast 
The stock fell 3\/4 to 12 7\/8 
Chubb , whose net income for the quarter exceeded most analysts ' expectations , rallied 3 3\/4 to 86 1\/2 . Aetna Life & Casualty gained 1 3\/8 to 61 1\/8 , Cigna advanced 7\/8 to 64 3\/4 , Travelers added 1\/2 to 40 3\/8 and American International Group rose 3 1\/8 to 107 3\/4 . 
UAL stock declined by 9 to 161 
AMR , which owns American Airlines , rose 3 3\/8 to 72 1\/4 ; USAir Group fell 1 1\/2 to 38 5\/8 
AMR , which owns American Airlines , rose 3 3\/8 to 72 1\/4 ; USAir Group fell 1 1\/2 to 38 5\/8 , and Delta Air Lines rose 1\/2 to 66 1\/2 
Procter & Gamble went down 3 1\/2 to 130 , Dow Jones fell 3 1\/2 to 37 1\/2 
Procter & Gamble went down 3 1\/2 to 130 , Dow Jones fell 3 1\/2 to 37 1\/2 and Rockwell International dropped 2 1\/8 to 25 . 
Di Giorgio gained 1 to 30 3\/4 
Newell , which declared a 2-for-1 stock split and boosted its quarterly dividend by 14 % , added 7\/8 to 49 3\/8 . 
Its capital spending is growing at double-digit rates for the second year in a row 
The more factories and robots Japanese manufacturers add , the more they will be able to export 
The more factories and robots Japanese manufacturers add , the more they will be able to export , and the less their domestic customers will need to import . 
At Canon Inc. , for example , sales are up nearly 20 % this year 
So big is the capital-spending boom that Japanese companies ' outlays in Japan topped American companies ' domestic outlays by $ 521.4 billion to $ 494.8 billion in the 12 months ended March 31 
Many Japanese companies expect record profits this fiscal year 
Many Japanese companies expect record profits this fiscal year , and Japanese interest rates , though up a bit recently , are still low . 
From a financial standpoint , the boom could n't come at a better time . 
MITI officials hope to avoid yet-another source of trade friction with the 
But some economists and government officials here are n't applauding . They fear that the boom may be too big for Japan 's or anyone else 's good . 
The investment boom is mainly sparked , they say , by strong domestic demand and is n't likely to increase exports sharply . 
The manufacturers said 14.2 % of their spending is designed to improve products or add new ones , 17.5 % is to cut costs , 12.5 % is for research and development 
Some economists -- and many Japanese companies -- are puzzled by the warnings . 
With Japan running enormous trade surpluses against much of the world , they think that Japan should meet the increased domestic demand by importing more . 
`` If there 's a further drive to export , '' says Nobuyuki Arai , an economist at the Japan Development Bank , `` that 'll be a problem 
Even in the short run , the investment boom could exacerbate a disturbing trend : Japanese exports are showing surprisingly little tendency to ease . 
Japanese auto makers , for example , are increasing their production capacity in the U.S. ; the additional production should , in part , replace imported vehicles with locally manufactured ones . 
But although Japanese companies increased their U.S. auto output by 42 % from January to September compared with the year-earlier period , their exports to the U.S. will drop only 9 % this year 
Others are replacing older facilities with flexible assembly lines on which different models can be turned out at once . 
The buildup is `` making Japan clearly more efficient , more technologically advanced and more competitive , '' declares a Western diplomat in Tokyo . 
Japan 's marathon economy , growing at 4.3 % this year , is now in its 35th month of expansion 
Nissan Motor Co. 's domestic auto sales are up 20 % this year 
`` One dealer told me that if he had more cars , he 'd sell them right away 
He adds that the company is trying to keep up with demand `` by overworking '' its employees . 
Once one Japanese company steps up its investments , the whole industry follows 
Because most businesses put market share above profitability , to let a competitor 's addition to capacity go unmatched is to concede defeat 
The expansion is aimed not just at meeting demand 
The expansion is aimed not just at meeting demand but also at expanding the company 's market share to 30 % from 27 % currently . 
`` Until now , we were trying to increase productivity with the facilities we already had . 
Nissan aims to expand its 25 % share of the market to 30 % by spending $ 141 million on a plant in southern Japan that could make as many as 240,000 cars a year . 
Meanwhile , Toyota Motor Corp. 's $ 247 million buildup is increasing its annual capacity by 180,000 cars 
Mazda Motor Corp. is still considering its options 
Although imports account for less than 1 % of beer sales in Japan , Asahi Breweries Ltd. , which has been gaining share with its popular dry beer , plans to fend off Japanese competitors by pouring $ 1.06 billion into facilities to brew 50 % more beer 
Those who are n't worried about how Japanese manufacturers ' investments will affect trade note that many new products are n't replacements for imports . 
But new-product development will make Japanese companies stronger 
But new-product development will make Japanese companies stronger , and big investments in `` domestic '' industries such as beer will make it even tougher for foreign competitors to crack the Japanese market . 
Moreover , much of the investment boom is in high-tech fields in which Japanese companies have only limited foreign competition 
Moreover , much of the investment boom is in high-tech fields in which Japanese companies have only limited foreign competition ; so , more investment practically assures more exports . 
The product is n't widely used yet 
Toshiba Corp. , for example , is spending $ 986 million on two new plants to build four-megabit dynamic random access memories , the next generation of computer chips . 
Toyota plans to raise Lexus exports 
If excess capacity develops , they say , not everyone will suffer 
The losers will be those with the least attractive products 
Details of the restructuring wo n't be made final 
ONEIDA Ltd. declared a 10 % stock dividend , payable Dec. 15 to stock of record Nov. 17 . 
The Oneida , N.Y. , maker of consumer , food-service and industrial products also declared a quarterly cash dividend of 12 cents a share , with the same payable and record dates . 
Adults with AIDS have had access to AZT 
Adults with AIDS have had access to AZT since FDA approved the drug 's usage for adults in March 1987 . 
But despite more than two years of research showing AZT can relieve dementia and other symptoms in children , the drug still lacks federal approval for use in the youngest patients . 
As a result , many youngsters have been unable to obtain the drug 
One of them , a daughter Ariel , died a year ago at age seven 
`` I could get AZT , '' says Mrs. Glaser , who bears her infection without any symptoms . 
`` But my daughter could n't 
Secondly , critics have charged AZT 's maker Burroughs Wellcome Co. with corporate inertia 
Wellcome has replied that it is moving ahead to compile the relevant data , and recently promised to develop a pediatric syrup form easier for youngsters to take . 
Still , all this comes 
`` While I 'm pleased the FDA is finally releasing AZT for children , it 's taken much too long to get to this point 
For some patients , AZT has restored the ability to ride a bicycle or solve puzzles , giving back a piece of their childhood 
AVON RENT-A-CAR & TRUCK Corp. said it declared a dividend of one warrant for each three shares of common stock . 
Bethlehem Steel 's profit plunged 54 % in the third quarter , hurt by higher costs and lower shipments to key clients . 
Columbia S&L posted a quarterly loss of $ 226.3 million 
Anheuser-Busch plans to aggressively discount its major beer brands , setting the stage for a price war 
Fed Chairman Greenspan said the central bank can wipe out inflation without causing a recession 
The finance unit , GMAC , said net fell 3.1 % 
Provigo plans to sell all non-food operations to refocus on its retail and wholesale grocery business . 
Michigan 's Senate passed a bill requiring girls to get parental consent for an abortion 
The action came 
In the San Francisco Bay area , more than 13,000 people were homeless 
East German leader Krenz said he was willing to hold talks with opposition groups pressing for internal changes . 
Baker offered to review Israel 's `` suggested changes '' to his proposal for direct Israeli-Palestinian talks . 
Bush said Washington would continue a trade embargo against Nicaragua , declaring that the Central American country poses `` an unusual and extraordinary threat '' to the security of the U.S. . 
A landslide engulfed a hillside slum in Sao Paulo , Brazil 
Jeffrey Coors , 44 years old , had been president since 1985 , when he succeeded his father Joseph in the job . 
A spokeswoman said Toronto-based Campeau has received `` expressions of interest '' in Bloomingdale 's 
Investment bankers in Tokyo confirmed that Tokyu Department Store is one of several Japanese companies that has been approached by representatives of a management committee headed by Bloomingdale 's Mr. Traub . 
`` Tokyu is one of the potential buyers who might raise its hand . 
The sale of Bloomingdale 's is a condition of efforts by Toronto-based Olympia & York Developments Ltd. to arrange $ 800 million in bridge financing for Campeau , which disclosed last month that its retailing units , Federated Department Stores Inc. and Allied Stores Corp. , were strapped for cash . 
One executive familiar with the Bloomingdale 's situation said , `` No book has been issued regarding Bloomingdale 's , there are no projections 
A major Tokyo newspaper reported that a Japanese department store concern is planning to offer about $ 1.3 billion to buy Bloomingdale 's . 
McCaw Cellular Communications Inc. must extend its offer for LIN Broadcasting 
McCaw wants to buy 22 million shares of LIN for $ 125 each , or $ 2.75 billion , which would result in McCaw 's owning 50.3 % of LIN . 
The offer is in limbo , however 
Farmington , N.M.-based Mesa has consistently rejected StatesWest 's offers , and early this week said its board would n't give the proposal further consideration , calling it `` vague and ill-defined 
The new letter purports to do this , saying that in addition to $ 7 a share in cash , StatesWest would offer one share of new 6 % convertible preferred stock of StatesWest it values at $ 3 a share . 
Spiegel said margins improved 
A spokeswoman said the apparel market troughed in the first half of 1988 
Spiegel said margins improved because its inventory position this year did n't need the costly markdowns required to trim last year 's swollen levels . 
Coniston Partners , which with related entities controls 80 % of TW , had been planning to sell $ 1.15 billion of junk bonds , among other things to finance their acquisition of the remaining public shares . 
What was n't mentioned is that Coniston and its investment banker , Donaldson , Lufkin & Jenrette , just completed a two-week `` road show '' for the purpose of marketing the bonds . 
Its fast-food restaurants -- including Denny 's , Hardee 's , Quincy 's and El Pollo Loco -LRB- `` the only significant fast-food chain to specialize in char-broiled chicken '' -RRB- -- are stable , recession-resistant and growing . TW 's junk bonds were n't , as junk bonds go , unusually weak . 
But unless they continued to grow , TW , based in Paramus , N.J. , would have run into trouble 
Until recently , such buy-now , pray-for-growth-later deals were routine . 
TW 's stockholder meeting was postponed from tomorrow to Nov. 21 . 
Gollust , Tierney & Oliver is likely to contribute more than the $ 120 million in equity it had planned on . Banks may contribute more senior debt . 
A DLJ banker , putting a best possible face on it , asserts that `` very few people said they did n't like the credit quality . People said they did n't think a billion-dollar deal would trade . '' 
But trading risk stems from credit risk . 
And by adding equity , DLJ would seem to be acknowledging that credit risk was a concern . 
The TW prospectus says that if the acquisition had been completed earlier , pretax earnings `` would have been insufficient to cover its fixed charges , including interest on debt securities , '' by approximately $ 62.7 million in the first six months of 1989 
TW notes , as many junk issuers do , that `` adjusted to eliminate non-cash charges '' TW would have run a cash surplus -- in this case , of $ 56 million over six months . 
But such calculations ignore the noncash charge of depreciation , taken to allow for the gradual wearing out of french friers , deterioration of stores and the like . 
TW 's pitch was that sales and earnings at its restaurants have risen steadily 
TW 's pitch was that sales and earnings at its restaurants have risen steadily and that people wo n't stop eating during a downturn . 
Prospective bond buyers noted that TW historically has prospered 
`` We were concerned that they were n't going to generate enough cash for capital spending 
DLJ argues that TW could , if necessary , cut capital spending 
DLJ argues that TW could , if necessary , cut capital spending 
DLJ argues that TW could , if necessary , cut capital spending , since half of what it plans to spend is for `` growth , '' rather than maintenance . 
Mrs. Thatcher , who was practicing the read-my-lips school of politics 
`` She can no longer be trusted to behave in a civilised -- that is unflaky -- fashion 
While supporting the Commonwealth `` in utterly condemning apartheid , '' her statement urged it to `` encourage change '' rather than inflict further punishment on the country 's black population 
Actually there is a consensus somewhere on sanctions : In May a Gallup Poll found that most South African blacks , 85 % , oppose economic sanctions . 
Malaysia 's Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad sniffed , `` If everybody else puts out their left foot and you put out your right foot , you are out of step 
Malaysia 's Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad sniffed , `` If everybody else puts out their left foot 
Mrs. Thatcher : `` If it 's one against 48 , I 'm very sorry for the 48 
If indeed Mrs. Thatcher has one opponent that could throw her off political course it is Britain 's mysteriously intractable inflation problem 
Mrs. Thatcher : `` If it 's one against 48 , I 'm very sorry for the 48 . '' 
Maggie Thatcher must be doing something right ; her political enemies are screaming louder than ever . 
The guest paid his bill at the resort hotel 
The guest paid his bill at the resort hotel , and as he departed he noticed a sign saying , `` Have You Left Anything 
After being trampled in Tuesday 's selling stampede , the Nasdaq over-the-counter market dusted itself off and moved on in moderate trading 
After being trampled in Tuesday 's selling stampede , the Nasdaq over-the-counter market dusted itself off and moved on in moderate trading . 
But while the Composite gained 1.19 , to 462.89 , many issues did n't participate in the advance 
Of the 4,348 issues that changed hands , 1,074 advanced 
The Nasdaq Financial Index rose 2.09 , to 454.86 . 
`` The market acted better 
`` If we get a decent rally -LCB- today -RCB- , maybe the buyers will come back 
If E.E. `` Buzzy '' Geduld is right , a seatbelt may come in handy during the next few sessions 
`` There 's a lot of uncertainty out there 
Almost one million shares of Sun Microsystems changed hands 
Amgen advanced 1 1\/2 to 56 ; Chiron jumped 2 to 29 3\/4 ; Cetus gained 1 to 16 7\/8 
The company has said it is prepared to make a bid for all of the shares outstanding of Jaguar 
Another takeover target , LIN Broadcasting , rose 1\/2 to 109 1\/4 on 495,000 shares . 
Occupational-Urgent Care Health fell 1 3\/4 to 15 1\/2 on 354,000 shares . 
The percent difference compares actual profit with the 30-day estimate where at least three analysts have issues forecasts in the past 30 days . 
At that price , CBS was the only player at the table 
Dick Pound , a committee member , began by disclosing that ABC and NBC had refused to even bid . 
Then , he asked Mr. Pilson to raise his offer anyway : `` If we can have a number that starts with a three , you can have a dea 
Well , CBS , mired in the ratings cellar and looking to sports as a way out , wanted to close the deal immediately and block its rivals from getting another chance to bid . 
CBS itself could run up losses of a few hundred million dollars on four years of various sports 
CBS itself could run up losses of a few hundred million dollars on four years of various sports if its big gamble goes wrong . 
ABC , a unit of Capital Cities\/ABC Inc. , and General Electric Co. 's National Broadcasting Co. also risk losses 
While rights fees head skyward , ad rates wo n't 
`` If they ask advertisers to absorb the costs , they 're likely to lose all but a few who need sports , above all 
Mr. Pilson emphasizes the ancillary benefits of positive press , contented affiliate stations , enthusiastic advertisers and huge audiences that might stick around to watch other CBS programs 
Some TV people doubt they will materialize and argue that even if they do , they wo n't offset the multimillion-dollar deficits that CBS could run up 
`` As we 've seen in the '80s , '' says Roger Werner , the president of the ESPN sports channel , `` those deals can turn sour 
`` As we 've seen in the '80s , '' says Roger Werner , the president of the ESPN sports channel , `` those deals can turn sour if the numbers do n't work . 
CBS pursues top sports `` to belie the fact that they are n't supporting affiliates , viewers and advertisers , '' charges Thomas H. Wyman , who was ousted as chairman of CBS 
`` They lost the entertainment crown 
`` They lost the entertainment crown , and they needed one . 
J. William Grimes , former president of ESPN , says NBC may `` come in with a huge bid for college basketball to take it away from CBS and say , ` We can overbid , too . ' 
In the mid-1980s , after ABC had just bid a record $ 309 million for the 1988 Winter Games , he sniped at rivals for paying reckless prices 
`` I love Pilson 
`` I love Pilson , but he was the guy who complained most bitterly and loudly , '' says Robert Wussler , a former CBS Sports president . 
`` I love Pilson , but he was the guy who complained most bitterly and loudly , '' says Robert Wussler , a former CBS Sports president . 
Rivals carp at `` the principle of Pilson , '' as NBC 's Arthur Watson once put it -- `` he 's always expounding that rights are too high 
Rivals carp at `` the principle of Pilson , '' as NBC 's Arthur Watson once put it -- `` he 's always expounding that rights are too high , then he 's going crazy . '' 
A Yale law school graduate , he began his career in corporate law 
Mr. Pilson says that when he spoke out a few years ago , `` I did n't say forever , and I did n't say every property 
Mr. Pilson says that when he spoke out a few years ago , `` I did n't say forever 
Mr. Pilson says that when he spoke out a few years ago , `` I did n't say forever , and I did n't say every property . '' The market changed , he adds . 
And he is n't the only big spender : NBC will pay a record $ 401 million for the 1992 Summer Games 
Mr. Pilson 's `` Major Events '' strategy jelled 
Mr. Pilson recalls that in April 1986 , after CBS 's annual meeting in Philadelphia , he and Mr. Tisch took the 90-minute train ride back to New York 
Five months later , Mr. Tisch took over as CBS 's chief executive 
Five months later , Mr. Tisch took over as CBS 's chief executive , and soon he was wielding sole approval each time Mr. Pilson scribbled a frighteningly large figure on a slip of paper , sealed it in an envelope and gave it to sports negotiators . 
The `` Major Events '' strategy , Mr. Pilson says , is designed to notch a place for CBS on the crowded TV dial of the 1990s . 
Even if baseball triggers losses at CBS -- and he does n't think it will -- `` I 'd rather see the games on our air than on NBC and ABC 
Even if baseball triggers losses at CBS 
Regular TV series ratings have slumped in the past five years 
Regular TV series ratings have slumped in the past five years , and premiering new shows is `` a crap shoot , '' Mr. Pilson says . 
Mr. Pilson says baseball and the Olympics may help CBS move up to No. 2 in the household ratings race , putting pizazz back into the network 's image . 
But top sports events are still a strong bet to lure audiences 30 % or 40 % larger than those CBS usually gets . 
No amount of hype will bring viewers back 
`` If the show ai n't a killer , they 're gone 
`` If the show ai n't a killer , they 're gone . '' 
During the 1984 Summer Games , for example , ABC touted `` Call to Glory 
The CBS plan to use big-time sports as a platform for other series carries no guarantee of success , however . 
Though CBS might move up to No. 2 in household ratings , most advertisers buy based on ratings for women aged 18 to 49 
Moreover , sports is hardly the best way to lure adult women . No amount of hype will bring viewers back if the shows are weak . 
In recent years , the World Series and the Olympics were aired against CBS 's last-place lineup . 
The intangible benefits may prove extremely costly 
The intangible benefits may prove extremely costly if CBS ca n't avoid big losses on the sports coverage itself . 
On the $ 1.06 billion baseball agreement alone , CBS is likely to lose $ 250 million in four years , contends Mr. Wussler , the former CBS man , now at Comsat Inc . 
`` It 's too early to tell '' what happens after that , he says . Mr. Pilson calls that loss estimate `` wildly inaccurate , '' conceding only that CBS will lose money on baseball in the first year . 
CBS will pay an average of $ 82 million more each year than ABC and NBC had paid together 
CBS will pay an average of $ 82 million more each year than ABC and NBC had paid together -- and those two networks expect losses on baseball this season . 
That has outraged some fans . 
If the playoffs end in four-game sweeps , losses could soar 
CBS signed General Motors and Toyota to be the only auto-maker sponsors in baseball for four years . Price : $ 265 million . 
But ad executives who negotiated the deal say that works out to only $ 275,000 for a 30-second ad in the World Series through 1993 -- 17 % less than what ABC is charging for the Series this month . 
Moreover , `` there 's no question ad rates will come down considerably '' from the GM-Toyota price , says Arnold Chase of Bozell Inc . 
Moreover , `` there 's no question ad rates will come down considerably '' from the GM-Toyota price , says Arnold Chase of Bozell Inc . 
Other admen , however , say rates could rise later 
On the $ 1.06 billion baseball agreement alone , CBS is likely to lose $ 250 million in four years , contends Mr. Wussler , the former CBS man , now at Comsat Inc . Nevertheless , he deems the deal `` plain smart '' for its huge promotional value . Mr. Pilson calls that loss estimate `` wildly inaccurate , '' conceding only that CBS will lose money on baseball in the first year . `` It 's too early to tell '' what happens after that , he says . But Mr. Tisch expects losses in all four years of the contract , he told U.S. senators last June . CBS will pay an average of $ 82 million more each year than ABC and NBC had paid together -- and those two networks expect losses on baseball this season . Yet CBS will air only 12 regular-season games , 26 fewer than ABC and NBC . That has outraged some fans . It also indicates a $ 50 million drop in ad sales for regular-season games -- a risk CBS took to get an unprecedented lock on all playoff games . If the playoffs end in four-game sweeps , losses could soar . Advertisers are resisting higher prices , which would help close the gap . CBS signed General Motors and Toyota to be the only auto-maker sponsors in baseball for four years . Price : $ 265 million . But ad executives who negotiated the deal say that works out to only $ 275,000 for a 30-second ad in the World Series through 1993 -- 17 % less than what ABC is charging for the Series this month . Moreover , `` there 's no question ad rates will come down considerably '' from the GM-Toyota price , says Arnold Chase of Bozell Inc . Other admen , however , say rates could rise later if ad spending surges . 
CBS expects to make modest profits 
CBS will add 25 1\/2 hours to that load in 1992 
All prime-time fare will be on tape-delay because of time differences with Norway 
Barry Frank , the agent who took Mr. Pilson to lunch last March , says that even if CBS loses , say , $ 10 million , it matters little 
`` Ten million ai n't jack , man 
Barry Frank , the agent who took Mr. Pilson to lunch last March , says that even if CBS loses , say , $ 10 million , it matters little . 
CBS Sports earned $ 50 million or so last year . 
And CBS takes in the least money in prime time ; ABC and NBC charge 30 % to 35 % more for ads , according to a Variety survey . 
But CBS 's costs are huge 
Although sports officials predict jumps of 50 % to 100 % in the major contracts coming up for renewal , ad rates may rise only 20 % 
CBS hopes to save money by ordering fewer episodes of regular series 
CBS hopes to save money by ordering fewer episodes of regular series because sports will fill up a few weeks of prime time . 
Each hour of Olympics and baseball in prime time will cost CBS $ 2.6 million to $ 2.8 million ; an hour-long drama costs only $ 900,000 
CBS may cushion losses with about $ 200 million a year in interest earned on the proceeds from selling CBS Records and other businesses . 
When Mr. Pilson is asked directly -- can you make money on all this ? -- he does n't exactly say yes 
`` What you 're really asking is , Are the profit and loss margins anticipated on the events acceptable to management ? '' he says . 
Place a phone order through most any catalog 
Place a phone order through most any catalog and chances are the clerk who answers wo n't be the only one on the line . 
Or open up an electronics magazine 
Eavesdropping -- both corporate and private -- is on the rise , thanks to the proliferation of surveillance technologies . 
And while sellers of the equipment and companies `` monitoring '' employees have few qualms , right-to-privacy advocates and some lawmakers are alarmed 
The practice is common at catalog , insurance and phone companies , banks and telemarketers , according to trade groups and worker organizations . 
Both companies stress that employees know they are being recorded 
Eavesdropping by individuals is harder to measure . 
But devices are there for the asking , whether in stores or through the mail . 
That and other fancy gizmos may cost thousands 
While tape recordings to uncover , say , infidelity are n't admissible in court , they can mean leverage in a settlement 
Nine states have introduced bills requiring that workers and customers be made aware of monitoring . 
And four states -- California , Florida , Michigan and Pennsylvania -- have adopted rules that all parties involved must consent 
In May , Rep. Don Edwards -LRB- D. Calif . -RRB- introduced congressional legislation that would require an audible beeping during any employee monitoring , warning people that they are being heard . 
Also last spring , Rep. Ron Dellums -LRB- D. , Calif. -RRB- , introduced a bill requiring universal two-party consent to any tapings in cases that do n't involve law enforcement . 
The ACLU and worker organizations back tighter laws 
`` I 'm sympathetic with workers who feel under the gun , '' says Richard Barton of the Direct Marketing Association of America , which is lobbying strenuously against the Edwards beeper bill . 
`` I 'm sympathetic with workers who feel under the gun , '' says Richard Barton of the Direct Marketing Association of America , which is lobbying strenuously against the Edwards beeper bill . 
Federal wiretap statutes recognize the right of employers to monitor employees ' for evaluation purposes . 
And in the past , Congress has viewed monitoring as an issue best handled in union negotiations . 
But opponents , led by the CWA , say new laws are needed 
But opponents , led by the CWA , say new laws are needed because monitoring is heavily concentrated in service industries 
Laura Dale , center manager at the catalog company 's customer order center in Reno , Nev. , defends monitoring . `` We like to follow up and make sure operators are achieving our standards of company service , '' says Ms. Dale , who supervises 350 operators . John Bonomo , a Nynex spokesman , says the telephone company needs to monitor operators to evaluate performance during the first six months on the job . `` Sometimes , '' he says , `` we 'll pull someone off the phones for more training . '' Federal wiretap statutes recognize the right of employers to monitor employees ' for evaluation purposes . And in the past , Congress has viewed monitoring as an issue best handled in union negotiations . But opponents , led by the CWA , say new laws are needed because monitoring is heavily concentrated in service industries and 81 % of monitored workers are n't represented by unions . The CWA claims that monitoring not only infringes on employee privacy , but increases stress . `` Nine to Five , '' a Cleveland-based office workers organization that supports the beeper bill , six months ago started a privacy hot line to receive reports of alleged monitoring abuses . 
Currently , if the person taping is a party to the conversation , it 's all right to record without the knowledge of the other person on the line 
Some marketers of surveillance gear -- including Communication Control System Ltd. , which owns the Counter Spy Shop and others like it -- already put warning labels in their catalogs informing customers of the one-party law . 
Radio Shack says it has a policy against selling products 
He says he has n't yet studied the Dellums bill 
Radio Shack says it has a policy against selling products if a salesperson suspects they will be used illegally . 
With its ability to pick up rustlings and flapping wings , `` it was meant to be a toy for children for bird watching , '' says Mr. Appel . 
The hottest rivalry in the computer industry intensified sharply yesterday 
Up to now , the intense competition between IBM and Digital has been confined largely to the broad midrange of the computer market , where Digital sought to exploit IBM 's weaknesses in networking . 
IBM fired back with new mainframes of its own , extending the long-dominant 3090 line with a 7 % to 14 % power boost . 
IBM said the 16 new J and JH models will generally be available immediately 
Small models , whose performance increased as much as 46 % , will carry higher prices . 
Jay Stevens of Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. said he may cut his earnings estimate for the current fiscal year 
Jay Stevens of Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. said he may cut his earnings estimate for the current fiscal year because he had expected at least some mainframe profit this year . 
Large Digital buyers say the new VAX will let them stay with Digital 
The hottest rivalry in the computer industry intensified sharply yesterday as Digital Equipment Corp. announced its first line of mainframe computers , targeting International Business Machines Corp. 's largest market . 
Digital also plans to compete fiercely with IBM 
Digital also plans to compete fiercely with IBM when the giant 's customers are computerizing new aspects of their businesses . 
In addition to commercial markets , Digital 's new line targets the low end of the engineering and scientific supercomputer market 
Although Digital has staked out a major presence in the booming workstation market , profit margins in that market are much slimmer than for mainframes 
Although Digital has staked out a major presence in the booming workstation market , profit margins in that market are much slimmer than for mainframes . 
`` Demand for these systems has been very , very strong , '' said Bill Grabe , a senior IBM marketing executive . 
But the 3090 line is nearly five years old 
IBM , Armonk , N.Y. , said it wanted to bring out the mainframes 
The fourth quarter is always IBM 's biggest by far , with most sales coming in December 
IBM , Armonk , N.Y. , said it wanted to bring out the mainframes as soon as it could to spark as many sales as possible by the end of the year . 
IBM has already indicated it will have problems in the quarter , partly because of a delay in shipping a high-end disk drive 
IBM has already indicated it will have problems in the quarter , partly because of a delay in shipping a high-end disk drive and partly because the strong dollar will cut significantly the value of IBM 's overseas earnings 
The White House called on Congress to attach the proposed capital-gains tax cut to its final deficit-reduction bill 
Earlier this month , the White House endorsed stripping the controversial tax measure from the bill 
Earlier this month , the White House endorsed stripping the controversial tax measure from the bill so that Congress could pass quickly a `` clean '' bill containing only provisions specifically designed to meet federal budget targets under the Gramm-Rudman act . 
But now that Congress has missed the legal deadline for meeting the Gramm-Rudman targets , the White House said it has returned to its original view that a capital-gains cut should be part of the deficit-reduction bill , on which Congress continues to work 
`` If that does n't happen 
But now that Congress has missed the legal deadline for meeting the Gramm-Rudman targets , the White House said it has returned to its original view that a capital-gains cut should be part of the deficit-reduction bill , on which Congress continues to work . 
On Capitol Hill , though , there does n't seem to be sufficient sentiment to pair capital gains and the deficit-reduction bill . 
Two products in what the telecommunications giant called a new generation of such equipment are available now 
The products already available are cross-connect systems , used instead of mazes of wiring to interconnect other telecommunications equipment . 
American Telephone & Telegraph Co. unveiled new optical transmission systems for data , video and voice communications . 
Law firms that have feasted and grown on the revenue from mergers and acquisitions work are feeling the squeeze 
While it is still too early to tell whether the dearth of takeover activity is only temporary , many lawyers say their firms are bracing for lower revenue from merger work 
If deals take longer to complete and there are fewer of them to do , `` you ca n't bill the same kind of premium as when deals took a few weeks from start to finish 
If deals take longer to complete 
`` We 're planning on a rip-roaring year in 1989 
`` Everyone is waiting to see if deals can be done at sensible prices 
Some lawyers say the slump , while more obvious in recent weeks , began earlier this year 
What 's more , he said , `` transactions are taking a much longer time to conclude 
Some lawyers say the slump , while more obvious in recent weeks , began earlier this year . What 's more , he said , `` transactions are taking a much longer time to conclude and many fall apart for lack of financing '' and more stringent scrutiny by state courts . Lawyers at such firms as Sullivan & Cromwell ; Willkie Farr & Gallagher ; Wachtell , Lipton , Rosen & Katz ; and Fried , Frank , Harris , Shriver & Jacobson all say they , too , have experienced a significant slowdown , particularly during the past few weeks . 
Law firms that have feasted and grown on the revenue from mergers and acquisitions work are feeling the squeeze as that work declines . 
`` We just took another floor for our London offices , '' said Joseph Flom of the New York firm of Skadden , Arps , Slate , Meagher & Flom . 
`` European companies are looking to buy American ones , '' said Henry King , the managing partner at that firm . 
In his opening arguments last week in federal court in New York , Mr. Lang told the jury that Mr. Lorin was the `` real master criminal '' behind the stock manipulation 
Mr. Lorin , a stock promoter , pleaded guilty to the stock-manipulation charges in April and agreed to cooperate with the government 's investigation of Mr. Laff . 
According to the transcript , Mr. Lorin said Mr. Laff should be killed 
According to the transcript , Mr. Lorin said Mr. Laff should be killed after Mr. Aslanian told him that information given to Mr. Laff by another conspirator could jeopardize the stock scheme . 
Mr. Lorin then repeated the threat 
When asked for a copy of the transcript , Mr. Lang said Judge Thomas P. Griesa had instructed him not to release it or the memorandum 
When Mr. Lang asked Mr. Lorin whether he had taken steps to have Mr. Laff killed , the witness again said no 
For the past six years , Mr. Menell , 43 years old , served as vice president for government affairs at American Express . 
Delmed Inc. 's top two officers resigned and were succeeded by executives of Fresenius USA Inc. and its parent , Fresenius AG , a major Delmed holder that has been negotiating to acquire a controlling stake . 
Delmed said Robert S. Ehrlich resigned as chairman , president and chief executive . 
The two companies have been discussing a transaction under which Fresenius would buy Delmed stock for cash to bring its beneficial ownership to between 70 % and 80 % of Delmed 's fully diluted common stock . 
While the discussions between Delmed and National Medical Care have been discontinued , Delmed will continue to supply dialysis products through National Medical after their exclusive agreement ends in March 1990 
While the discussions between Delmed and National Medical Care have been discontinued , Delmed will continue to supply dialysis products through National Medical 
While the discussions between Delmed and National Medical Care have been discontinued , Delmed will continue to supply dialysis products through National Medical after their exclusive agreement ends in March 1990 , Delmed said . 
Sales of the heart drug TPA were $ 43.6 million , better than last year 's depressed third period when the company sold just $ 29.1 million of the drug . 
`` We continue to be on target for ... increasing TPA sales 20 % to 25 % this year , '' said founder and Chief Executive Officer Robert Swanson . 
Expenses are flat 
There 's contract revenue from -LCB- limited research and development -RCB- partnerships . 
Genentech faces competition in the cardiac-drug market from SmithKline Beecham PLC 's heart drug Eminase , expected to receive market approval shortly . 
`` The company 's stock is trading at 40 times next year 's numbers 
Although Ryder did n't break out the charge , analysts estimated that the majority of the $ 57 million was linked to workers ' compensation reserves and anticipated losses on the disposal of trucks 
M. Anthony Burns , Ryder 's chairman and chief executive officer , said : `` We 're constantly trying to find ways to regain the earnings momentum . 
Maxicare Health Plans Inc. , operating under Chapter 11 bankrupty-law protection , outlined terms of its reorganization plan that calls for creditors and shareholders to receive at least $ 78.8 million in cash and $ 67 million face amount of 10-year , 13.5 % notes . 
General unsecured creditors of the parent holding company initially will receive $ 14 million in cash , $ 22 million face amount of senior notes and 49 % of the new company 's stock . 
Steelmaking resumed Oct. 18 
The average interest rate rose to 8.337 % at Citicorp 's $ 50 million weekly auction of 91-day commercial paper , or corporate IOUs , from 8.292 % at last week 's sale . 
`` We know that Saab is looking for a partner for industrial and financial cooperation , '' Fiat said . 
Fiat 's rejection of partnership with Saab means that the Swedish company , which announced last Friday that its pretax profit for the first eight months plummeted 49 % , will have to look for a partner among other car manufacturers 
ITT Corp. , its insurance business hurt by Hurricane Hugo , reported a 4 % decline in third-quarter net income , despite a 4.2 % rise in revenue . 
ITT Corp. , its insurance business hurt by Hurricane Hugo , reported a 4 % decline in third-quarter net income , despite a 4.2 % rise in revenue . ITT also forecast a fourth-quarter blow to earnings from the California earthquake . 
Hartford expects to report a further pretax loss of about $ 30 million for the current quarter , as a result of the California earthquake this month , ITT added . 
The company also disclosed its financial operations had increased reserves for bankrupt accounts , resulting in a $ 40 million pretax charge for the third quarter . 
The company also disclosed its financial operations had increased reserves for bankrupt accounts , resulting in a $ 40 million pretax charge for the third quarter . 
Amoco , an energy concern , is the operator of the project with a 43.75 % working interest 
Coda owned 60 % of the pipeline 
The agency noted that because of a strike by Finance Ministry personnel the provisional estimate does n't correspond exactly to the consumer price index usually published . 
The institute did n't estimate annual price growth in September 
Mr. Kane said he expects several other companies to join 
It 's one of the most popular computer programs of all time 
The technology at issue `` is not an underlying technology of HyperCard to my knowledge , '' said Danny Goodman , a San Francisco-area HyperCard program developer . 
In Cupertino , Calif. , Apple said that it believes the case has no merit 
Though I agree with many of Mr. Kageyama 's comments , I believe he points the gun in the wrong direction 
Though I agree with many of Mr. Kageyama 's comments , I believe he points the gun in the wrong direction : It is n't the Americans who must be criticized for not understanding the Japanese culture 
The Japanese want us to accept their culture 
Japanese managers ca n't expect Americans to behave 
Japanese managers ca n't expect Americans to behave as if they were Japanese 
Americans are expected to conform to the Japanese culture 
What is wrong with expecting the Japanese to conform to American norms 
Americans place native or native speakers in charge of subsidiaries overseas . European multinationals do likewise ; even in America , their affiliates are usually run by American managers . 
While Mr. Kageyama does an excellent job of explaining the differences , both cultural and philosophic , I question his perspective 
Would he suggest that employees of an American company doing business in Japan conform to their new bosses ' culture and philosophy ? Obviously not . 
The workers can be motivated 
The workers can be motivated , and the company reach its full potential 
A manager should not have to rebut the opinions of his employees about the style of his management . 
When the response to criticism is only a better explanation of policies without altering the reasons for the criticism , I am convinced that Mr. Kageyama has still failed to attack the root cause of the problem and is simply treating symptoms 
Suddenly , George Bush the pro-choice advocate became George Bush the anti-abortionist . 
Just a month ago , Mr. Bush sternly threatened to veto a pending welfare bill 
Just a month ago , Mr. Bush sternly threatened to veto a pending welfare bill if it provided any abortion funds 
Just a month ago , Mr. Bush sternly threatened to veto a pending welfare bill if it provided any abortion funds , except to save a woman 's life . 
Then , two weeks ago -- declaring that `` I 'm not looking for any conflict over this '' -- the president said he would consider a compromise to fund abortions for poor women in cases of rape and incest . 
But only four days after that , Mr. Bush resurrected the veto threat . `` I do not support federal funding for abortions except where the mother 's life is threatened , '' he proclaimed , and finally vetoed the measure last weekend . Just a month ago , Mr. Bush sternly threatened to veto a pending welfare bill if it provided any abortion funds , except to save a woman 's life . Then , two weeks ago -- declaring that `` I 'm not looking for any conflict over this '' -- the president said he would consider a compromise to fund abortions for poor women in cases of rape and incest . 
`` In all honesty if you ask me , ` Is this man a true believer ? ' I do n't know 
Anti-abortion forces regard him as at best an uncertain ally . 
For most of the past nine years , he has striven to convince anti-abortion activists of his stalwart support for their position . 
But ever since the Supreme Court 's Webster vs. Reproductive Health Services decision this year changed the political landscape of the abortion issue , the president seemingly has tried just as hard to avoid saying anything more unless pressed to the wall 
But ever since the Supreme Court 's Webster vs. Reproductive Health Services decision this year changed the political landscape of the abortion issue , the president seemingly has tried just as hard to avoid saying anything more 
The political risk would be far less 
`` If you have a position , you 're better off to stick with it than to move around very much 
By his moderate Republican heritage as well as the warnings of political advisers who say the issue is vital to younger voters , the president might seem to have at least some sympathy with abortion-rights arguments . 
By his moderate Republican heritage as well as the warnings of political advisers who say the issue is vital to younger voters , the president might seem to have at least some sympathy with abortion-rights arguments . 
On many issues -- flag-burning , for instance -- his keen political sensitivities overcome such conflicts . 
These days , when others raise the subject of abortion , the usually loquacious president can be close-mouthed almost to the point of curtness 
In 1974 , as the U.S. representative to the United Nations , he wrote an introduction to a book on world population in which he boasted of his leadership during his term in Congress in expanding family-planning services for the poor . 
In his Rolling Stone interview in 1980 , Mr. Bush volunteered his abortion-rights remarks to contrast himself with his rival , Ronald Reagan . 
In April 1986 , then-Vice President Bush had his staff write a letter spelling out that he would support a constitutional amendment banning abortions except in cases of rape , incest and life endangerment 
His rhetoric gathered momentum 
His rhetoric gathered momentum as he rolled into office , affirming his `` firm support of our cause '' during an anti-abortion rally three days after his inauguration last January . He again urged passage of a constitutional amendment outlawing abortion . 
But when the high court ruled in the Webster case in July , the president began to lower the volume 
When the ruling was handed down , the vacationing president dispatched Chief of Staff John Sununu to issue a statement and refused to answer questions himself 
When the ruling was handed down , the vacationing president dispatched Chief of Staff John Sununu to issue a statement and refused to answer questions himself . 
He did later threaten vetoes over legislation restoring the District of Columbia 's right to use its own tax money to fund abortions for poor women and over restoring funding to the United Nations Population Fund . 
But in the months since then , while trying to drum up support for other issues -- such as an anti-flag-burning constitutional amendment -- he has shied away from talking about abortion 
But in the months since then , while trying to drum up support for other issues -- such as an anti-flag-burning constitutional amendment -- he has shied away from talking about abortion . 
When we look closely at our own history , it is clear that our constitutionally mandated civil rights have evolved not through the goodness of people 's hearts but through legislation and constitutional amendments 
This is how American women won the right to vote . 
Disabled Americans have had their civil rights guaranteed in all federally funded programs 
Donald DeScenza , an independent analyst in New Canaan , Conn. , said he was `` impressed with the company 's performance . '' 
Excluding an increase in the tax rate and the effects of foreign currency translations 
McDonald 's Mr. Millis said Goodyear appeared to have held or gained some market share in the U.S. for the first time since the second quarter of 1988 . 
Total tire segment sales were up only about 1 % to $ 2.2 billion 
In the latest quarter , Goodyear 's tax rate was 51 % compared with 41 % a year earlier . 
As he handed over the reins to successor Charles A. Corry , steel profits were close to a cyclical peak 
Though imports were troublesome , they were n't running away with the market 
Though imports were troublesome , they were n't running away with the market 
Mr. Icahn , the company 's deep-pocketed , tenacious adversary , recently disclosed that he had raised his USX stake to 13.1 % 
Mr. Icahn , the company 's deep-pocketed , tenacious adversary , recently disclosed that he had raised his USX stake to 13.1 % , and he again threatened a takeover . 
The import quotas got only a 2 1\/2-year extension 
Mr. Corry might have to dismember the company more than he wants to . 
In 1986 , Mr. Roderick adroitly dodged Mr. Icahn 's first bullet 
In 1986 , Mr. Roderick adroitly dodged Mr. Icahn 's first bullet after the takeover specialist had built up an 11.4 % stake . 
He was shocked , associates say , to learn of Mr. Icahn 's new takeover threat . 
Although the board believed that Mr. Icahn is more interested in talking the stock price higher than acquiring USX , it adopted a poison-pill defense 
Although the board believed that Mr. Icahn is more interested in talking the stock price higher than acquiring USX , it adopted a poison-pill defense , to be swallowed 
Mr. Icahn may not want to sell out 
Mr. Icahn may not want to sell out unless he can get a special dividend similar to one he received 
Mr. Icahn may not want to sell out unless he can get a special dividend similar to one he received before selling his stake in Texaco Inc. in June -- a coup that gave him enough cash to make his USX move . 
And although the recent turmoil in the stock and junk-bond markets , by making it harder to arrange takeover financing , has eased some of the pressure on Mr. Corry , it does n't end the takeover threat 
`` I know it 's not over , '' a sober-faced Mr. Corry acknowledged 
`` I know it 's not over , '' a sober-faced Mr. Corry acknowledged while greeting steel suppliers in New York on Oct. 12 and inviting them to a buffet of salmon and sushi in honor of Kobe Steel Ltd. , USX 's partner in a steel mill in Lorain , Ohio . 
In fact , it 's barely begun for Mr. Corry , who faces tough decisions 
`` He 's in a vulnerable position 
An undistinguished college student who dabbled in zoology 
An undistinguished college student who dabbled in zoology until he concluded that he could n't stand cutting up frogs , Mr. Corry wanted to work for a big company `` that could do big things . '' 
But after joining the tax department of a USX subsidiary 30 years ago , he set the modest goal of becoming tax manager by the age of 46 
For years , he quietly stuck to the back accounting rooms , wearing a hat to work 
But after joining the tax department of a USX subsidiary 30 years ago , he set the modest goal of becoming tax manager by the age of 46 . For years , he quietly stuck to the back accounting rooms , wearing a hat to work because everyone else did . 
He served as Mr. Roderick 's front man in tense negotiations for the 1982 purchase of Marathon Oil for $ 5.9 billion . 
Soon after taking over last June , Mr. Corry rescinded a pay cut imposed on clerical workers , a move that Mr. Roderick had n't made in spite of improved earnings 
Soon after taking over last June , Mr. Corry rescinded a pay cut imposed on clerical workers , a move that Mr. Roderick had n't made in spite of improved earnings . 
Soon after taking over last June , Mr. Corry rescinded a pay cut imposed on clerical workers , a move that Mr. Roderick had n't made in spite of improved earnings . Mr. Corry also ruled that all board meetings would be held in Pittsburgh instead of New York or Findlay , Ohio , Marathon 's home . 
What 's more , the takeover occurred 
What 's more , the takeover occurred 
Mr. Corry expected the Texas Oil & Gas sale to delight Mr. Icahn by addressing his concern about boosting shareholder value . 
But when the two men met in New York a day after Mr. Icahn disclosed the rise in his USX stake , Mr. Corry learned that Mr. Icahn wanted him to sell all of Texas Oil -- not just its reserves of about 1.2 trillion cubic feet of natural gas and 28 million barrels of oil but also its pipeline , gas-gathering and contract-drilling operations 
But when the two men met in New York 
Some speculate that Mr. Corry would agree 
Mr. Icahn has long believed , associates say , that the company , whose 1988 sales totaled $ 16.88 billion , is worth $ 70 a share 
Mr. Icahn advocates the sale of the company 's steel operations 
In the past five years , USX has turned steel into a profit maker by closing several plants and reducing labor costs . 
While Mr. Roderick was reared in the shadows of Pittsburgh 's smoking mills , Mr. Corry grew up in Cincinnati , a city nicknamed `` Porkapolis '' and more accustomed to pork chops than pig iron 
`` Dave thought the country needed a strong U.S. Steel 
`` Dave thought the country needed a strong U.S. Steel and , while Chuck agreed , he was more apt to say , ` Not at any cost to shareholders 
`` Dave thought the country needed a strong U.S. Steel and , while Chuck agreed , he was more apt to say , ` Not at any cost to shareholders , ' '' a former executive says . 
Indeed , Mr. Corry , at an August press conference , talked about investing in steel 
Indeed , Mr. Corry , at an August press conference , talked about investing in steel as long as it provides a good return and `` not a day longer . '' 
As Mr. Roderick once said : `` We 're a two-product company 
As Mr. Roderick once said : `` We 're a two-product company and , boy , if you ca n't figure out the value of those two parts , you are so damn dumb that you do n't belong on Wall Street 
However , shedding steel would run directly counter to Mr. Roderick 's original rationale for diversifying into oil and gas : Having two major products would lessen the company 's vulnerability to one market 's down cycle and help smooth out the flow of cash and earnings . 
About the only way that USX now can get out of steel is to dish it out , piece by piece , in separate joint ventures , he adds . 
With Mr. Icahn breathing down his neck , however , Mr. Corry may have little choice but to sell at a weak price 
Oil has long been Mr. Corry 's pet . 
Indeed , when the Bush administration finally decided this summer to renew import restrictions -- arguably the most important decision to affect the steel industry in five years -- Mr. Corry and his directors were aboard helicopters , high above Marathon 's rich oil reserves in the North Sea 
Should USX be left with only Marathon , Mr. Corry might well feel pushed to scout out other energy companies . 
However , even USX executives who work closely with him are n't sure about his long-term goals . 
One thing is certain , however : Mr. Corry , while studying other options , probably wo n't make a major move until he 's clear about Mr. Icahn 's intentions 
One thing is certain , however : Mr. Corry , while studying other options , probably wo n't make a major move 
One thing is certain , however : Mr. Corry , while studying other options , probably wo n't make a major move until he 's clear about Mr. Icahn 's intentions . 
One thing is certain , however : Mr. Corry , while studying other options , probably wo n't make a major move until he 's clear about Mr. Icahn 's intentions . 
Mr. Corry learned presence under fire 
When negotiating , Mr. Corry played his cards close to the vest 
`` What he really wanted to know was about a particular company 
`` It 's part of the capitalistic market system that equity can be bought 
Israel has launched a new effort to prove the Palestine Liberation Organization continues to practice terrorism 
Israel has launched a new effort to prove the Palestine Liberation Organization continues to practice terrorism , and thus to persuade the U.S. to break off talks with the group . 
Israel wants to end the dialogue 
Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir 's top adviser on counterterrorism , Yigal Carmon , was here Monday to present the report to members of Congress , reporters and others . 
Israeli counterterrorism officials provided the State Department with a 20-page list of recent terrorist incidents they attribute directly to forces controlled by PLO Chairman Yasser Arafat . 
`` If the dialogue was based on the assumption that Arafat or the PLO would stop terrorism , and we have evidence of continued terrorism , what would be the logical conclusion 
`` If the dialogue was based on the assumption that Arafat or the PLO would stop terrorism 
Israel has long claimed Mr. Arafat never meant to renounce terrorism 
At the heart of Israel 's report is a list of a dozen incidents Jerusalem attributes to Fatah , including the use of bombs and Molotov cocktails . 
But U.S. officials say they are n't satisfied these incidents constitute terrorism 
But U.S. officials say they are n't satisfied these incidents constitute terrorism because they may be offshoots of the intifadah , the Palestinian rebellion in the occupied territories , which the U.S. does n't classify as terrorism . 
In addition , the officials say Israel has n't presented convincing evidence these acts were ordered by Fatah or by any group Mr. Arafat controls . 
Some supporters of Israel say U.S. policy on Palestinian terrorism is colored by an intense desire to maintain the dialogue with the PLO . 
Concern about the volatile U.S. stock market had faded in recent sessions 
Concern about the volatile U.S. stock market had faded in recent sessions , and traders appeared content to let the dollar languish in a narrow range until tomorrow , when the preliminary report on third-quarter U.S. gross national product is released . 
By midmorning , the DJIA had plunged 80 points 
When the DJIA modestly rebounded , the dollar bounced back in choppy dealings 
When the DJIA modestly rebounded , the dollar bounced back in choppy dealings but ended the day below the levels of late Monday . 
Analysts peg the dollar 's recent weakness to an underlying slowdown in the U.S. economy , highlighted by recent economic data , particularly a surprisingly sharp widening in the August U.S. trade gap . 
Traders attribute the mark 's surge to a robust West German economy and higher rate differentials . 
The dollar finished lower yesterday , after tracking another rollercoaster session on Wall Street . 
Meanwhile , sterling slumped on news that the United Kingdom posted a wider-than-expected trade deficit in September . 
The news also knocked the British unit to below 2.95 marks in London 
Boston Co. , the upper-crust financial services concern that was rocked by a management scandal late last year , has had a sharp drop in profitability 
Boston Co. 's fall from grace is bad news for its parent , Shearson Lehman Hutton Holdings Inc. , which has relied heavily on the banking and money management unit 's contributions in recent years . 
In 1988 , for example , Boston Co. had an estimated pretax profit of at least $ 110 million 
Shearson does n't break out the earnings of its subsidiaries . 
But people familiar with Boston Co. 's performance say the unit had profit of around $ 17 million for the third quarter 
But people familiar with Boston Co. 's performance say the unit had profit of around $ 17 million for the third quarter , after barely breaking even for the first six months . 
The mismatch exposed the company to a high degree of interest-rate risk 
The mismatch exposed the company to a high degree of interest-rate risk , and when rates moved unfavorably -- beginning late last year and continuing into this year -- `` it cost them 
Mr. Kriz noted that Boston Safe Deposit `` has taken some actions to better control asset-liability management and improve controls in general 
As some securities mature and the proceeds are reinvested , the problems ought to ease 
As some securities mature 
Mr. Kriz noted that Boston Safe Deposit `` has taken some actions to better control asset-liability management and improve controls in general , and we think these will serve to improve credit quality . '' 
As some securities mature and the proceeds are reinvested , the problems ought to ease , he said . 
Boston Co. officials declined to comment on Moody 's action or on the unit 's financial performance this year 
The executives were accused of improperly deferring expenses and booking revenue early , in an effort to dress up results -- and perhaps bolster performance-related bonuses . 
Sears , Roebuck & Co. is struggling 
Yesterday , the retailing and financial services giant reported a 16 % drop in third-quarter earnings to $ 257.5 million , or 75 cents a share , from a restated $ 305 million , or 80 cents a share , a year earlier . 
Sears officials insist they do n't intend to abandon the everyday pricing approach in the face of the poor results . 
He added that , after an initial surge triggered by an advertising blitz in March , Sears expected that the pricing program would n't have any effect on revenue 
Sears has been counting on growth coming from the large displays of brand-name merchandise it is adding to its stores over the next two years in what it calls `` power formats . '' 
`` Sears is likely to be unsuccessful 
`` Sears is likely to be unsuccessful if it continues with its pricing policy 
The company is highlighting more special deals in its advertising and stores 
The company is highlighting more special deals in its advertising and stores , and it 's offering to defer finance charges on certain big-ticket items . 
Sears is also stepping up its television ads and changing its message . 
'' By lowering prices throughout its stores , she says , `` Sears has the right idea . '' 
In a new TV ad , for instance , a woman going through the Sunday newspaper brands as hype claims by other stores that they are offering goods for `` 50 % , 60 % and 70 % off . '' By lowering prices throughout its stores , she says , `` Sears has the right idea . '' 
But the ad also mentions Sears 's sales -- a topic that the retailer has avoided 
`` When Sears has a sale at a special price , '' the woman in the ad declares , `` it 's something you do n't want to miss 
Recent surveys by Leo J. Shapiro & Associates , a market research firm in Chicago , suggest that Sears is having a tough time attracting shoppers 
The number of people who said they were more likely to shop at Sears fell in September to 37 % from 66 % in March , when Sears blanketed the airwaves with ads about its new pricing strategy . 
`` You see some improvement in these other areas 
Allstate is expected to absorb another big hit in the fourth quarter 
Allstate is expected to absorb another big hit in the fourth quarter as claims pour in from the San Francisco earthquake . 
Profit at Sears 's Allstate insurance unit fell 38 % to $ 126.1 million because of Hurricane Hugo , which inflicted the greatest single storm damage loss in the company 's history . 
Imports of crude from the Middle East grew 17 % from year-earlier levels 
While Mideast crude imports were higher compared with year-earlier levels , they fell 18 % compared with August imports 
While Mideast crude imports were higher compared with year-earlier levels , they fell 18 % compared with August imports . 
At this stage some people just `` walk away '' from homes where the mortgage exceeds current market value . 
2 -RRB- Encourage long-term occupancy by forgiving one month 's payment -LRB- off the tail end of the mortgage -RRB- for every six months paid 
2 -RRB- Encourage long-term occupancy by forgiving one month 's payment -LRB- off the tail end of the mortgage -RRB- for every six months paid ; or perhaps have the down payment deferred to the end of the mortgage -LRB- balloon -RRB- , but `` forgiven '' on a monthly pro-rata basis 
The Federal Housing Administration , Veterans Administration and the Department of Housing and Urban Development further aggravate the problem of affordable housing stock by `` buying in '' to their foreclosed properties -LRB- of which there are , alas , many -RRB- at an inflated `` balance due '' -- say $ 80,000 on a house worth $ 55,000 -- instead of allowing a free market to price the house for what it 's really worth . 
Worse , the properties then sit around deteriorating for maybe a year or so , but are resold eventually -LRB- because of the attractiveness of the low down payment , etc . -RRB- to a marginal buyer who ca n't afford both the mortgage and needed repairs 
Worse , the properties then sit around deteriorating for maybe a year or so , but are resold eventually -LRB- because of the attractiveness of the low down payment , etc . -RRB- to a marginal buyer who ca n't afford both the mortgage and needed repairs ; and having little vested interest that buyer will walk away 
Sales of Xerox copiers and other office products grew 1.6 % ; `` we expected growth of 6 % to 7 % , '' Mr. Henderson said . 
`` They are holding their own in a weak market 
`` They are holding their own in a weak market , and the restructuring is working , '' he says . Still , with competitors such as Eastman Kodak Co. faltering in copier sales , Xerox 's sales increases `` were encouraging , '' says Eugene Glazer of Dean Witter Reynolds Inc . 
In the quarter , the Crum & Forster insurance unit reported $ 200 million before tax of capital gains from property and casualty operations . 
In the quarter , the Crum & Forster insurance unit reported $ 200 million before tax of capital gains from property and casualty operations . 
New orders for durable goods fell back slightly in September 
Orders for military equipment , household appliances , machinery and other goods expected to last at least three years dipped 0.1 % last month , to $ 126.68 billion 
Most analysts had expected a sharper decline after the steep rise in August . 
Most analysts had expected a sharper decline after the steep rise in August . Moreover , a recent government report showing widespread layoffs in manufacturing had contributed to perceptions that the manufacturing sector of the economy had slowed to a crawl . 
That `` suggests the manufacturing sector is not falling apart , '' said Sally Kleinman , an economist at Manufacturers Hanover Securities Corp. in New York . 
While a decline in orders for cars and civilian airplanes pulled down the orders total , an enormous jump in orders for heavy military equipment propped it up 
Orders for capital defense goods skyrocketed 56 % 
Orders for military goods usually catapult in September 
Orders for military goods usually catapult in September , government officials say , as the Pentagon scrambles to spend its money 
While all the numbers in the durable goods report were adjusted for seasonal fluctuations , a Commerce Department analyst said that the adjustment probably did n't factor out all of the wide-ranging surge in defense orders 
Unfilled orders for durable goods rose 0.4 % in September , to $ 476.14 billion 
Unfilled orders for durable goods rose 0.4 % in September , to $ 476.14 billion , after declining for the first time in 2 1\/2 years in August . In July unfilled orders grew 1 % . 
`` It means we 're eating into the bread that keeps us going . 
`` It also means if you have a real drop-off in orders , production will likely fall off very quickly because there is less to keep things going 
`` It also means if you have a real drop-off in orders , production will likely fall off very quickly 
Such steep drops in a category seen as a barometer of business investment would customarily be grave news for the economy . 
But a Commerce Department analyst said that in both months orders would have risen had it not been for a drop in civilian aircraft bookings , a category that is showing declines only after a huge surge earlier this year . 
Still , Milton Hudson , senior economic adviser at Morgan Guaranty Trust Co. in New York , said : `` If you look back a half-year or so the evidence was pretty good of affirmative strength in the capital-goods sector 
Now at least there are question marks about that 
Analysts said they expected the action 
Analysts said they expected the action , and investors applauded the move . 
`` The impact wo n't be that great , '' said Graeme Lidgerwood of First Boston Corp . That is in part because of the effect of having to average the number of shares outstanding , she said . 
In addition , Mrs. Lidgerwood said , Norfolk is likely to draw down its cash initially to finance the purchases 
Still , analysts do n't expect the buy-back to significantly affect per-share earnings in the short term . 
Longer term , however , the buy-back is expected to increase earnings , especially after 1990 , Mrs. Lidgerwood said . 
`` At a certain price , if the management thinks -LCB- the stock -RCB- is cheap , they can go in and buy it 
Your Oct. 2 editorial `` Reding , Wrighting & Erithmatic '' on the recent `` education summit '' was like most pieces on the subject of education : It had little to say . 
Unfortunately , the comment was buried in another article 
After a wonderfully frivolous early childhood , they are exposed to rigid discipline 
Unless parents and educators alike start to develop more discipline in children , all the worthy concern , discussions and actions will not solve the problem 
Now this remarkable economic growth seems to be coming to an end 
When industries were weak , it protected them 
The LDP won by a landslide in the last election , in July 1986 . 
But less than two years later , the LDP started to crumble 
In a modern system , the government 's role is to give the people as much choice as possible and to keep them well informed 
In a modern system , the government 's role is to give the people as much choice as possible and to keep them well informed so they are capable of making a choice . 
The Ministry of Construction spreads concrete throughout the country and boasts in international conferences that Japan 's paved roadway per capita is the longest in the world 
The Ministry of Agriculture and Fishery actually is a ministry for farmers and fishermen instead of a ministry of provisions . The Ministry of Health and Welfare is a ministry of doctors and pharmaceutical companies rather than an organization dedicated to protecting the health of the people . The Ministry of Education is nothing but a cartel for licensed teachers , and certainly does not act on behalf of students . The Ministry of Construction spreads concrete throughout the country and boasts in international conferences that Japan 's paved roadway per capita is the longest in the world , but they seldom think of the poor commuters who spend so much time sitting in traffic . The Ministry of Transportation serves the industry , certainly not the passengers who must pay extraordinarily high prices . 
This ministry has done nothing to correct the misunderstandings and misperceptions that are at the root of Japan 's deteriorating image . 
The rest of the world accepted such methods 
Japanese put up with it 
The Diet does n't normally even debate bills 
The Diet does n't normally even debate bills because the opposition parties are so often opposed to whatever LDP does that it would be a waste of time . 
This makes enormous sense in Japan , where direct tax accounts for more than 70 % of revenues 
If you are a salaried man , Amen ! 100 % captured 
If you are a retailer , 50 % 
To correct this inequality , most people would have favored an indirect tax , like the consumption tax . 
But the bill was passed without debate in the Diet , in the absence of the opposition . 
As a result , the Japanese people did n't know what to expect 
While people were jingling their change , the LDP politicians were caught in scandals 
Whereas most men were a bit ambivalent about the sex scandals -LRB- though they were furious about Recruit -RRB- , women were upset about both and surged to the polls 
Whereas most men were a bit ambivalent about the sex scandals 
It is difficult to analyze how much of their anger was due to Recruit , the sex scandals , or the one-yen coins in their purses 
If the LDP , as currently composed , ca n't make the transformation 
In the current mood of the Japanese people , journalists and even some industrialists , giving power to the Socialists might be good for the LDP , cleansing it of past sins . 
At the most there is only nine months 
Men are still combing the beach with shovels and hand brushes , searching for that unusual glint . 
Men are still combing the beach with shovels and hand brushes , searching for that unusual glint . 
Last year , 43 million tons of desert were moved from one dune to another to recover 934,242 carats , which comes to 46 tons of sand per carat , or one-fifth gram . 
`` If there 's diamonds out there , we 'll get to them 
While other mines might yield more carats , a higher percentage of them go to industrial use 
Since this treasure chest is too big to fit in a bank vault , it has been turned into one 
Months after railway worker Zacharias Lewala first picked up a diamond from the sand in 1908 , the German colonialists who controlled Namibia proclaimed a wide swath of the desert -- about 200 miles north from the Orange River and 60 miles inland from the Atlantic -- a restricted area , a designation normally reserved for military operations 
When the Germans lost World War I , they lost Namibia to South Africa and the diamonds to Ernest Oppenheimer , patriarch of Anglo American Corp. and De Beers 
Today , no one gets in or out of the restricted area without De Beers 's stingy approval . 
Jackals roam the streets at night 
The mining zone has thus remained one of the most desolate places in Africa . 
Still , miners from all parts of Namibia as well as professional staff from De Beers 's head offices in South Africa and London keep coming . 
Huge machines that look as though they came from the Star Wars desert-battle scene lumber among the dunes . Mechanized vacuum cleaners probe the sand like giant anteaters ; a whirring ferris wheellike excavator , with buckets instead of seats , chews through layers of compacted sand ; tracks and conveyor belts , shuttling sand to the screening plants , criss-cross the beach . 
When the mining in front of the wall is complete , it is moved northward 
Engineers first used concrete blocks to bolster the barrier 
Engineers first used concrete blocks to bolster the barrier , but the ocean tossed them aside like driftwood . 
`` The Caterpillar people are n't too happy 
Laboring in blue and gray overalls , they are supposed to concentrate on cleaning out crevices , and not strain their eyes looking for diamonds . 
For these workers at the bottom of the mine 's pay scale , this is usually enough to overcome the temptation to steal -- a crime that could earn them up to 15 years in jail . 
Just after Hurricane Hugo battered South Carolina , some officials talked of perhaps adding a penny to the state gasoline tax or raising property taxes 
Gov. Campbell responded , `` They 're mentioning rope 
A spokesman says the governor believes he can avoid increases by relying on federal aid and shifting funds in state programs . 
Legislators are talking about temporary rises in sales or gasoline taxes 
Needs are n't clear 
Needs are n't clear , and the state constitution makes increasing taxes and spending very difficult . 
THE IRS WILL PAY 
If the IRS admits its error and the charges have been paid , it will reimburse a taxpayer who has n't refused to give timely answers to IRS inquiries or has n't contributed to continuing or compounding the error 
If the IRS admits its error 
If the IRS asks for and gets a replacement for a check that it concedes it lost in processing , it will reimburse the taxpayer for the stop-payment charge on the original 
Reimbursement claims must be filed with the IRS district or service-center director 
If the IRS seeks late-payment interest because of the lost check , you should request interest abatement 
They plan to expand the home site by buying five adjoining acres for $ 200,000 , borrowed against a first mortgage on the five acres 
As you can guess , the Blandings want to deduct home-mortgage interest on the $ 200,000 loan . 
But , IRS private ruling 8940061 notes , no rule or court case bears directly on the issue of adding land to a principal residence . 
So the IRS has drawn a rationale from the sale of a home site split in two and sold in different years to the same buyer ; a court let the seller in that old case treat this as the sale of one residence . 
Thus , the IRS says , the Blandings ' $ 200,000 loan is home-acquisition debt 
REPORTS OF PAYMENTS to independent contractors for services must be filed by businesses 
A retired electrical engineer we 'll call Ben works part-time as a consultant 
A retired electrical engineer we 'll call Ben works part-time as a consultant , but he does n't want to earn so much that Social Security reduces his benefits . 
He plans to tell clients to pay certain fees directly to the foundation instead of to him ; he would omit those fees from income reported on his return . 
If you assign your income to another , you still have controlled its disposition and enjoyed the fruits of your labor , even if indirectly 
If you assign your income to another , you still have controlled its disposition and enjoyed the fruits of your labor 
Ben earns any fees sent directly to charity and is taxable on them 
Reuben Mark , chief executive of Colgate-Palmolive , said advertisers lack detailed demographic and geographic breakdowns of magazines ' audiences . 
He added : `` There 's probably even a magazine for left-handed golfers 
He added : `` There 's probably even a magazine for left-handed golfers ... but the general interest magazine is something we all miss 
Leonard Lauder , president and chief executive officer of Estee Lauder , said consumer magazines are suffering from what he called `` niche-itis , '' the increasing number of magazines that target the idosyncratic interests of readers . 
`` We spend a fortune on research information , '' said Steve Burzon , publisher of Meredith Corp. 's Metropolitan Home . 
And Tina Brown , editor of Conde Nast Publications Inc. 's Vanity Fair , said advertisers are frequently asked to take advertising positions in the back of her magazine to relieve ad clutter . 
Bernard Leser , president of Conde Nast , added : `` Our research shows we sell more of our heavier issues 
`` The earnings were fine and above expectations , '' said Michael W. Blumstein , an analyst at First Boston Corp . 
`` I suspect October was n't as good as the third quarter 
`` I suspect October was n't as good as the third quarter , and they 'll have difficulty matching the third quarter in the fourth quarter , '' Mr. Blumstein said . 
`` I upgraded the firm to my buy list 
In the first quarter , Salomon had a record loss of $ 28 million on revenue of $ 1.54 billion . 
Conference attendees are expected to be buzzing about the workings of the recently formed Resolution Trust Corp. , a federal agency charged with disposing of an estimated $ 200 billion of real estate dumped in government hands by insolvent savings and loans . 
Some plan to pursue foreign development ventures , mostly in Europe . 
`` There are n't as many economically viable alternatives for real estate developers in this country as 10 years ago , '' says Charles Shaw , a Chicago-based real estate developer . `` 
They 'll go into someone else 's pasture 
Some plan to pursue foreign development ventures , mostly in Europe . And other developers may shift from commercial to residential development in the U.S. . Developers and money managers are looking for bargains among the thousands of financially troubled properties around the country . Developers are also eyeing the real estate portfolios of major corporations . 
The builders are more willing to give up some equity and rely on management and consulting fees to stay afloat in the soft market . 
`` Why should you beat your brains out fighting the environmentalists , the neighborhood groups , dealing with traffic mitigation , sewers and fighting city hall 
`` Why should you beat your brains out fighting the environmentalists , the neighborhood groups , dealing with traffic mitigation , sewers and fighting city hall , then try to convince a lender to lend you money in an overbuilt market 
`` Why should you beat your brains out fighting the environmentalists , the neighborhood groups , dealing with traffic mitigation , sewers and fighting city hall , then try to convince a lender to lend you money in an overbuilt market when you can get pension fund money , buy a portfolio , sell off pieces off it and play your own game ? '' says Jack Rodman , managing partner of the Los Angeles office of Kenneth Leventhal Inc. a national accounting firm . 
But experts say that when it comes to distressed properties , finding diamonds in the rough is n't easy 
But experts say that when it comes to distressed properties , finding diamonds in the rough is n't easy . 
Although a Finnish group has a minority interest in an already operating Moscow hotel , the Sheraton-Pan Am venture will be the first joint-venture hotels in the Soviet Union to have as much as 50 % foreign ownership 
U.S. companies account for less than 8 % of the 1,000 or more Soviet joint ventures that have been announced 
U.S. companies account for less than 8 % of the 1,000 or more Soviet joint ventures that have been announced since the Soviets began encouraging such undertakings in 1987 . 
The Sheraton Moscow will charge about $ 140 to $ 150 a day for each of its rooms 
David Shaffer was named to the new post of executive vice president of the Maxwell Macmillan group of this communications giant . 
Soichiro Honda 's picture now hangs with Henry Ford 's in the U.S. Automotive Hall of Fame 
Soichiro Honda 's picture now hangs with Henry Ford 's in the U.S. Automotive Hall of Fame , and the game-show `` Jeopardy '' is soon to be Sony-owned . 
To hear most U.S. growers tell it , we 'd still be in Paradise 
It certainly wo n't get there on looks . 
`` It does n't look nice on the outside 
Now , even more radical changes seem afoot 
New apple trees grow slowly 
The Delicious hegemony wo n't end anytime soon . 
`` Red Delicious has been overplanted 
The scare over Alar , a growth regulator that makes apples redder and crunchier but may be carcinogenic , made consumers shy away from the Delicious 
`` A lot of growers wo n't be around in a few years 
`` This is beautiful stuff , '' he says , looking ruefully at big boxes of just-picked Red Delicious next to his barn . 
Even if a grower beats them back , his $ 2,000 rented bees might buzz off to the neighbors ' orchards instead of pollinating his 
Though growers ca n't always keep the worm from the apple , they can protect themselves against the price vagaries of any one variety by diversifying -- into the recently imported Gala , a sweet New Zealand native ; the Esopus Spitzenburg , reportedly Thomas Jefferson 's favorite apple ; disease-resistant kinds like the Liberty 
They still buy apples mainly for big , red good looks -- that 's why so many taste like woodchucks ' punching bags . 
But freshness counts more than it once did 
`` The Japanese apple market is very keyed to high quality 
`` The Japanese apple market is very keyed to high quality 
The Fuji is still small potatoes in the U.S. , sold mainly in fruit boutiques . 
Once somebody eats one , they get hooked 
Mr. Auvil , the Washington grower , says that he could sell Fujis to Taiwan buyers at $ 40 a box 
Mr. Auvil , the Washington grower , says that he could sell Fujis to Taiwan buyers at $ 40 a box if he had them . 
`` When the chain stores took over , there was no longer a connection between grower and consumer 
After all , until the 1950s even the Red Delicious was a firm , delectable morsel . 
Then , as growers bred them more for looks , and to satisfy supermarket chains ' demands of long-term storage , the Red went into decline 
Now , those red applelike things stores sell in summer are fruitbowl lovely , but usually not good eating . 
It ripens later than most apples 
It ripens later than most apples , and growing it in U.S. areas with chilly autumns may be tricky . 
Mr. Broderick , the Massachusetts grower , says the `` big boss '' at a supermarket chain even rejected his Red Delicious recently 
Mr. Broderick , the Massachusetts grower , says the `` big boss '' at a supermarket chain even rejected his Red Delicious recently because they were n't waxed and brushed for extra shine . 
Moreover , the frumpy Fuji must compete with an increasingly dolledup Delicious . 
From 1980 to 1988 , while federal budget deficits totaled $ 1.41 trillion , the government issued $ 394 billion of new direct loans and an additional $ 756 billion of new primary loan guarantees 
Federal credit programs date back to the New Deal , and were meant to break even financially . 
Student loan defaults remain high at about 12 % 
Last month , the General Accounting Office reported that defaults in Federal Housing Administration guarantees were five times as high as previously estimated 
GAO 's findings are particularly troubling 
If the programs continue their present path , the potential government losses are staggering 
Although external events have contributed to the morass , the principal causes of the current crisis are internal and generic to all programs 
To reduce the risks 
If the program is meant to provide a subsidy , collecting the debt defeats the original goal 
If the program is meant to provide a subsidy , collecting the debt defeats the original goal . 
To avoid this problem , government should issue credit 
Thus , subsidized loans tend to turn into giveaway programs , with increasing subsidy and default rates over time . 
In contrast , credit programs can be appropriate tools to improve the operation of capital markets . 
In contrast , credit programs can be appropriate tools to improve the operation of capital markets . 
There is a fundamental conflict between providing a subsidy and maintaining the integrity of a credit program . If the program is meant to provide a subsidy , collecting the debt defeats the original goal . 
High default rates , a low interest rate , and government coverage of all interest costs 
Families that do not need the loan can make money simply by putting the loan in the bank and paying it back 
The program provides highly subsidized loans to any student whose family earns less than a particular amount . 
While the student was in school , interest costs would either be paid by the student or added to the loan balance 
Reducing those rates moderately -LRB- say , to 75 % -RRB- would still provide substantial assistance to borrowers . 
Reducing those rates moderately -LRB- say , to 75 % -RRB- would still provide substantial assistance to borrowers . 
But it would also encourage lenders to choose more creditworthy customers , and go a long way toward reducing defaults . 
Since the government has a dismal record of collecting bad debts , the costs to the borrower of defaulting are usually low 
Since the government has a dismal record of collecting bad debts , the costs to the borrower of defaulting are usually low . 
In addition , it is often possible to obtain a new government loan 
Since the budget measures cash flow , a new $ 1 direct loan is treated as a $ 1 expenditure 
Since the budget measures cash flow , a new $ 1 direct loan is treated as a $ 1 expenditure 
Loan guarantees do n't appear at all 
Loan guarantees do n't appear at all until the borrower defaults 
Loan guarantees do n't appear at all until the borrower defaults , so new guarantees do not raise the deficit 
Predictably , guarantees outstanding have risen by $ 130 billion since 1985 
Neither technique is perfect 
Mr. Bush has long campaigned for passage of a bill or a constitutional amendment that would explicitly give him a line-item veto , which would enable him to kill individual items in a big spending bill without having to kill the entire bill . 
White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater , confirming comments made this week by Vice President Dan Quayle , said Mr. Bush is `` interested '' in finding a suitable test case . 
White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater , confirming comments made this week by Vice President Dan Quayle , said Mr. Bush is `` interested '' in finding a suitable test case . 
But he also said that exercising a test line-item veto is n't a `` top initiative '' on the president 's agenda 
The proposal reiterates the U.S. desire to scrap or reduce a host of trade-distorting subsidies on farm products . 
But it would allow considerable flexibility in determining how and when these goals would be achieved . 
The U.S. plan also would ease the transition to freer agriculture trade by allowing some countries to convert non-tariff barriers into tariffs 
The U.S. is submitting the proposal today in Geneva , hoping that the initiative will spur members of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade to reach agreement on new trade rules 
Unlike the earlier U.S. farm-trade proposal which struck European countries as too extreme , the latest plan would provide some room for maneuver . 
For instance , the new U.S. package makes clear there would be a transition period during which GATT members could use a combination of tariffs and quotas to cushion their farmers from foreign competition . 
It also says countries could temporarily raise tariffs on certain products 
Less objectionable ones would be subject only to some restraints 
For instance , the new U.S. package makes clear there would be a transition period during which GATT members could use a combination of tariffs and quotas to cushion their farmers from foreign competition . It also says countries could temporarily raise tariffs on certain products if they experience an unusually heavy volume of imports . Instead of proposing a complete elimination of farm subsidies , as the earlier U.S. proposal did , the new package calls for the elimination of only the most tradedistorting ones . Less objectionable ones would be subject only to some restraints , and others with a `` relatively minor trade impact '' would be allowed to continue under certain conditions . 
P&G 's U.S. shipments were up just 1 % 
P&G 's U.S. shipments were up just 1 % , partly because the company decided to shift more promotions and sales for health and beauty products to the fiscal second quarter . 
Lynne Hyman , vice president of equity research for First Boston Corp. , expects P&G to post net of about $ 4.20 a share , on a post-split basis . 
`` If he does to the domestic operations what he did internationally , '' says Mr. Zurkuhlen , `` this company will earn $ 6 or $ 7 a share in a few years 
Although Section 2 of the act expressly disclaims requiring that minorities win a proportional share of elective offices , few municipal and state government plans achieve preclearance by the Justice Department or survive the scrutiny of the lower federal courts unless they carve out as many solidly minority districts as possible 
Although Section 2 of the act expressly disclaims requiring that minorities win a proportional share of elective offices , few municipal and state government plans achieve preclearance by the Justice Department or survive the scrutiny of the lower federal courts 
The new goal of the Voting Rights Act -- more minorities in political office -- is laudable . 
Such a policy implies that only a black politician can speak for a black person 
When they reapportion their districts after the 1990 census , every other municipality and state in the country will face this issue 
Sometime in 1991 , as soon as the 1990 census becomes available , a redistricting panel will redraw the City Council district lines 
The white group argued that whites were not fully and fairly represented 
No federal court has ruled that the Voting Rights Act protects a white minority 
`` In the past , people who had to run for office had to moderate their views 
Two hundred years ago , critics of the new United States Constitution warned that the electoral districts for Congress were too large and encompassed too many different economic interests . 
Large , heterogeneous election districts would encourage good government 
As long as we believe that all Americans , of every race and ethnic background , have common interests and can live together cooperatively , our political map should reflect our belief 
Under -LCB- RICO -RCB- , the government may seek a temporary restraining order -LRB- TRO -RRB- upon the filing of a RICO indictment , in order to preserve all forfeitable assets 
Under -LCB- RICO -RCB- , the government may seek a temporary restraining order -LRB- TRO -RRB- upon the filing of a RICO indictment , in order to preserve all forfeitable assets until the trial is completed 
4 . When a RICO TRO is being sought , the prosecutor is required , at the earliest appropriate time , to state publicly that the government 's request for a TRO , and eventual forfeiture , is made in full recognition of the rights of third parties 
Sales of North American-built cars and trucks plunged 20.5 % in mid-October from a year earlier 
GM 's car sales dropped 24.8 % in mid-October to 69,980 
GM 's car sales dropped 24.8 % in mid-October to 69,980 , while truck sales fell 26 % to 37,860 . 
GM also had dismal results in the first 10 days of the month 
GM also had dismal results in the first 10 days of the month , while other auto makers reported mixed results . 
All of the Big Three suffered in the just-ended period , however , with sales of all domestically made cars , including those built at Japanese-managed plants , falling 19 % to 158,863 from a year earlier . 
The Big Three auto makers already have slashed fourth-quarter production plans 10.4 % below year-ago levels 
The Big Three auto makers already have slashed fourth-quarter production plans 10.4 % below year-ago levels , but that may not be enough to prevent inventories from ballooning 
Industry analyst John H. Qualls , a vice president with Hill & Knowlton in St. Louis , forecasts that domestic auto makers will have a 93-day supply of cars at the end of the year 
Business had been fairly strong 
Ford Motor Co. reported a 21.2 % drop in sales of domestic-made cars to 46,995 and a 24.2 % drop in domestic trucks to 31,143 . GM 's car sales dropped 24.8 % in mid-October to 69,980 , while truck sales fell 26 % to 37,860 . 
Honda Motor Co. , which continues to have short supplies of domestically made Accords , saw its sales of North American-built cars fall 14.1 % to 8,355 . 
The most recent OTC short interest statistics were compiled Oct. 13 , the day the Nasdaq composite index slid 3 % 
As it happens , the Nasdaq composite did continue to fall for two days after the initial plunge . 
Generally , a short seller expects a fall in a stock 's price and aims to profit by selling borrowed shares 
Generally , a short seller expects a fall in a stock 's price and aims to profit by selling borrowed shares 
Intel 's short interest jumped 42 % 
Intel makes semiconductors 
Shorted shares must eventually be replaced through buying . 
In addition , changes in short interest in some stocks may be caused by arbitrage . 
What defeated General Aoun was not only the weight of the Syrian army . 
The weight of Lebanon 's history was also against him 
Like Lebanon , and however unfairly , Israel is regarded by the Arab world as a colonial aberration . Its best hope of acceptance by its neighbours lies in reaching a settlement with the Palestinians . Like Lebanon , Israel is being remade by demography . In Greater Israel more than half the children under six are Muslims . Within 25 years Jews will probably be the minority . 
Unlike the Maronites , Israel 's Jews will not let themselves become the weakest force in a system of private armies ; Jerusalem will become Belfast 
Unlike the Maronites , Israel 's Jews will not let themselves become the weakest force in a system of private armies ; Jerusalem will become Belfast before it becomes Beirut . 
The effects on the market of the mostly computer-driven sell-off among exchange-listed stocks irked many market makers , who watched the Nasdaq Composite Index tumble in sympathy with the Dow Jones Industrial Average 
After plummeting 1.8 % at one point during the day , the composite rebounded a little , but finished down 5.52 , at 461.70 . 
Microsoft , battered by profit taking in recent sessions , sank as much as 4 
Apple Computer improved 7\/8 to 47 5\/8 ; Intel slipped 1\/4 to 33 1\/4 
`` The market started with several strikes against it , '' said Peter DaPuzzo , head of retail equity trading at Shearson Lehman Hutton , referring to news that the labor-management buy-out of UAL Corp. continued to unravel , and reports that the junk-bond market is disintegrating . 
Even though the over-the-counter market usually does n't fall by as much as listed stocks during program-selling blitzes , he said , `` when the market does recover , the damage is done and it leaves Nasdaq down more than the Big Board 
Even though the over-the-counter market usually does n't fall by as much as listed stocks during program-selling blitzes , he said , `` when the market does recover , the damage is done and it leaves Nasdaq down more than the Big Board 
Even though the over-the-counter market usually does n't fall by as much as listed stocks during program-selling blitzes , he said , `` when the market does recover , the damage is done 
But the computer-guided selling in response to those developments dealt a serious blow to the over-the-counter market , Mr. DaPuzzo said . 
While Shearson does n't do computer-guided program trading for its own account , the firm does execute orders for clients involved in the buying and selling of shares tied to movements in certain stock indexes 
They do n't like the risks they are forced to assume 
Market makers are supposed to keep supplies of stocks on hand to maintain orderly trading 
That means that on days when prices are tumbling and sellers abound they must be willing to buy shares from sellers 
That means that on days when prices are tumbling and sellers abound they must be willing to buy shares from sellers when no one else will . 
The market makers say they are n't comfortable carrying big positions in stocks 
He said that when sell programs kick in , many traders believe that `` there 's no sense in sticking your nose out because you 're an instant loser 
He said that when sell programs kick in , many traders believe that `` there 's no sense in sticking your nose out 
Lodestar Group said it will make a $ 6-a-share offer for the remaining Kinder-Care Learning Center common stock 
Kinder-Care Learning Centers added 1\/4 to 4 7\/8 on 461,200 shares . 
The company said losses from the Oct. 17 earthquake in California have n't yet been determined 
IBM is reviewing its entire business-partners program 
-- `` Whether the installation is for early warning or space track , it clearly is not deployed , '' the lawmakers said . 
We 're happy , we guess , to receive confirmation of the Krasnoyarsk violation from the Soviets 
As it bids for new agreements , new loans and indeed admission to the civilized world , the Soviet government has recognized it has a credibility problem 
As it bids for new agreements , new loans and indeed admission to the civilized world , the Soviet government has recognized it has a credibility problem . 
If the Soviets want to be believed , they need to start telling the truth about more than the totally obvious 
The Pentagon 's recently issued `` Soviet Military Power , '' though in general adopting a softer line , repeated the Sverdlovsk assessment 
The Pentagon 's recently issued `` Soviet Military Power , '' though in general adopting a softer line , repeated the Sverdlovsk assessment . 
Since Mr. Shevardnadze did not address this topic before the Supreme Soviet , the Soviet Union 's official position remains that the anthrax deaths were caused by tainted meat 
We doubt this claim just as we doubted Mr. Shevardnadze 's assurance last year that Krasnoyarsk did n't violate the ABM treaty . 
We do n't believe it . 
Biological weapons violations have figured little in political debate , and indeed have not been pressed vigorously enough by the U.S. government . 
But the stated U.S. position is detailed and specific 
The Soviets should be willing to set in motion a process that would allow them to acknowledge that Sverdlovsk violated the 1972 agreement 
Until that happens , glasnost can not begin to deserve the kind of credibility Mr. Shevardnadze was bidding for with his confessions on Monday 
Manville and a spokeswoman for the trust said that the two are discussing the proposal 
The trust , created as part of Manville 's bankruptcy-law reorganization to compensate victims of asbestos-related diseases , owns 7.2 million of the Series A convertible preferred shares , which are each convertible into 10 Manville common shares . 
In addition to the stock and 20 % of Manville 's profits beginning in 1992 , the trust is supposed to receive $ 2.5 billion over its 27-year life . 
As of June 30 , it had settled about 15,000 of 81,000 claims filed 
Since most of its assets are tied to Manville , a forest and building products concern , the trust might also want to diversify its holdings 
A Manville spokesman would n't elaborate on the proposed changes . 
But he said they are `` to a large degree , housekeeping 
Manville said the shares issued to the trust were intended to be sold , as needed 
A hearing is set for Nov. 15 
Secured creditors would recover both principal and interest 
Secured creditors would recover both principal and interest , while unsecured creditors would receive only principal and interest accrued 
Assuming full operation of the Seabrook nuclear power plant , which is completed but is n't yet operating , equity holders would receive up to $ 500 million in cash , preferred stock and new 10-year Seabrook bonds . Under the new Northeast Utilities plan , it would pay $ 1.65 billion in cash to creditors and assume $ 100 million in pollution control bonds . Secured creditors would recover both principal and interest , while unsecured creditors would receive only principal and interest accrued before PS of New Hampshire filed for Bankruptcy Code protection in January 
Tons of delectably rotting potatoes , barley and wheat will fill damp barns across the land 
Tons of delectably rotting potatoes , barley and wheat will fill damp barns across the land as thousands of farmers turn the state 's buyers away . 
Many a piglet wo n't be born as a result 
Tons of delectably rotting potatoes , barley and wheat will fill damp barns across the land as thousands of farmers turn the state 's buyers away . 
Until his labor can produce a profit in this dying and distorted system , even Solidarity 's sympathetic new government wo n't win him over 
In June , farmers held onto meat , milk and grain , waiting for July 's usual state-directed price rises . 
The farmers ran a boycott 
On Aug. 1 , the state tore up its controls 
That was when the tame old Peasants ' Party , desperate to live through the crisis , broke ranks with the Communists and joined with Solidarity in the East Bloc 's first liberated government . 
`` Of course it 's better to sell private , '' he says 
He wo n't for long 
State monopolies will keep on stifling trade , `` free '' prices or not 
Building them now will require undergirding from the West , and removal of political deadwood , a job that Solidarity has barely started . 
`` There are a lot of them 
As the Chinese have shown 
Try as they might , the Communists could neither replace nor break him . 
Until 1963 , it was good soil . 
Mr Pyszkiewicz smiles 
`` They started 
Even if I had a lot of money , I could n't buy what I need 
They use 60 % more fertilizer per acre , twice the high-grade feed . 
`` I 've heard from friends that state farms are subsidized , '' Mr. Pyszkiewicz says 
The state quit shoving peasants onto its subsidized farms over 30 years ago . 
The pension 's size still depends on how much produce he sells the state . 
His allotment of materials also did 
His allotment of materials also did , until the state could n't hold up its end of that bargain . 
When supplies are short , it often hands them over only in exchange for milk or grain 
Some men stay , their best friend a bottle of vodka 
Without machines , good farms ca n't get bigger . 
If a food crisis undid the Communists , a food revolution will make Solidarity 
Vegetables are abundant and full of flavor in Poland , the pickles and sauerkraut sublime , the state monopolies long broken . 
A private challenge to the monolithic tractor industry will take more time and money than Poland can spare 
`` I hire transportation 
If nobody buys , I bring my prices down 
He has bought some trendy Western clothes , and a green Mercedes with an American flag in the window . 
If the situation changes , I 'll get stuck with them 
Rural Solidarity objected , to no avail 
Next Spring , the two will battle in local elections . 
Not even a tractor . 
The farmer leaves . 
The 321-99 roll call vote reflected broad support for the disaster assistance 
By a lopsided 401-18 margin , the chamber rejected an effort to waive Gramm-Rudman for purposes of addressing the two disasters 
By a lopsided 401-18 margin , the chamber rejected an effort to waive Gramm-Rudman for purposes of addressing the two disasters , and budget analysts estimate the increased appropriations will widen the fiscal 1990 deficit by at least $ 1.44 billion 
The budget impact will be greater still in fiscal 1991 
Because of the vagaries of Gramm-Rudman , the immediate impact is relatively small . 
Within the appropriations process , the situation is even more difficult 
The underlying bill approved yesterday is required to keep the government operating past midnight tonight 
The hastily drafted measure could hurt California by requiring it to put up more matching funds for emergency highway assistance than otherwise would be required . 
And the state 's delegation is fearful that the new funding will be counted against a separate $ 185 million in federal highway funds it would expect to receive under its normal allocation this year . 
Also , the high price of San Francisco real estate puts the state at odds with federal regulations more attuned to the national average . 
For example , disaster loans , which will go to small businesses and homeowners , offer credit as low as 4 % in some cases . 
The Senate is expected to make some modifications today 
Administration pressure discourages any effort to add to total funding 
Yesterday 's floor action came 
An estimated $ 25.8 million is allocated to continue work in Oman . 
But all funding is cut for the Philippines 
An estimated $ 38.9 million was set aside for military installations in the home state of North Carolina Rep. W.G. Hefner , the House chairman . 
Texas and California are traditionally powerful within the conference 
In the final trading , the House was insistent on setting aside $ 500 million to carry out base closings ordered to begin in fiscal 1990 . 
The House approved a short-term spending bill to keep the government operating through Nov. 15 and provide $ 2.85 billion in emergency funds to assist in the recovery from Hurricane Hugo and the California earthquake . Yesterday 's floor action came as a House-Senate conference approved a nearly $ 8.5 billion fiscal 1990 military construction bill , representing a 5 % reduction from last year and making severe cuts from Pentagon requests for installations abroad . 
The size of the cuts is n't known 
Yesterday , Mobil said domestic exploration and production operations had a $ 16 million loss in the third quarter 
Some Mobil executives were dismayed that a reference to the cutbacks was included in the earnings report 
Some will likely be offered severance packages 
It told prosecutors not to seek forfeitures 
It was forced into liquidation before trial 
It was forced into liquidation before trial when investors yanked their funds 
The experience of Princeton\/Newport and initiation of other RICO-forfeiture cases against legitimate businesses taught Drexel that a RICOed investment bank would be an ex-investment bank . 
The experience of Princeton\/Newport and initiation of other RICO-forfeiture cases against legitimate businesses taught Drexel that a RICOed investment bank would be an ex-investment bank . 
Drexel therefore agreed instead to an arrangement allowing it to plea to charges `` which the company is not in a position to dispute '' because of RICO . 
Justice has finally recognized its employees ' abuses , thanks largely to the demands for reform by former U.S. attorney in Washington Joseph diGenova , who wants to salvage RICO for real criminals . 
But prosecutorial guidelines are effective 
He said ours is supposed to be `` a government of laws not of men 
He said ours is supposed to be `` a government of laws not of men 
Although the half-hour situation comedy seen Mondays at 9:30 p.m . Eastern and Pacific time is n't a candidate for cancellation , it is slated for fine-tuning 
Although the half-hour situation comedy seen Mondays at 9:30 p.m . Eastern and Pacific time is n't a candidate for cancellation , it is slated for fine-tuning 
`` Teddy Z '' was boosted by favorable reviews and a network-wide promotional tie-in contest with K mart Corp . It was promoted on cable services , including MTV , Nick at Night and VH-1 , and premiered as the No. 22-rated show for the week . 
Worse , every week it suffers audience drop-off from `` Murphy Brown 
Worse , every week it suffers audience drop-off from `` Murphy Brown '' and viewership on CBS picks up again 
Last week , `` Murphy Brown '' was viewed by 14.1 % of the available television households 
Although the half-hour situation comedy seen Mondays at 9:30 p.m . Eastern and Pacific time is n't a candidate for cancellation , it is slated for fine-tuning and by next week the network may announce `` Teddy Z '' is moving to 8:30 p.m. from its 9:30 time slot , replacing `` The People Next Door , '' which became the first network show to be canceled this season . 
CBS executives said the program is also slated to undergo some plot changes . 
Creator Hugh Wilson , for example , included the lead character 's Greek family in the cast 
Creator Hugh Wilson , for example , included the lead character 's Greek family in the cast , `` but that is not the right focus anymore , '' said one CBS executive . 
`` We 're making adjustments on the show , yes , but nothing radical , '' said Craig Nelson , the story consultant on `` Teddy Z . '' 
Prices of long-term Treasury bonds moved inversely to the stock market 
Prices of long-term Treasury bonds moved inversely to the stock market as investors sought safety amid growing evidence the economy is weakening . 
As the stock market recovered some of its losses later in the day , bond prices retreated 
As the stock market recovered some of its losses later in the day , bond prices retreated . 
On the surface , the decline in September durable goods -- only 0.1 % -- did n't appear very weak . 
But orders for non-defense capital goods , a precursor of future plant and equipment spending , were off 5.6 % 
Although analysts do n't expect the Federal Reserve to ease credit policy soon , reports like those yesterday help build the case for lower rates 
The stock market 's precipitous drop frightened foreign investors , who quickly bid the dollar lower . 
But as stock prices recovered some of the early losses , so did the U.S. currency 
Although dealers said investors are becoming more bearish toward the dollar in the wake of the stock market 's recent troubles and as the U.S. economy weakens , the dollar ended down only modestly 
Although dealers said investors are becoming more bearish toward the dollar in the wake of the stock market 's recent troubles 
Judge Robert -LRB- `` Maximum Bob '' -RRB- Potter sentenced Jim Bakker to 45 years in the big house yesterday 
Currently , Boeing has a backlog of about $ 80 billion 
When the good fairy assigned to Slovakia hovered over the cradle of Edita Gruberova many years ago in Bratislava , she sprinkled her with high E flats , sparkling Ds , clean trills , and coloratura ornaments silvery as magic dust 
It is n't every day that we hear a Violetta who can sing the first act 's high-flying music with all the little notes perfectly pitched and neatly stitched together . Never once did she gasp for air or mop her brow . She was as cool as a cucumber . 
She has TB , after all , and a weak-kneed lover 
Just when Ms. Gruberova sat down away from her guests to cough in private , her salon began sliding around the stage 
Worse , her walls move all the time -- at least in this production . 
Hold on to those funny braids ! you wanted to caution her 
Normally , Violetta can go about her business without wondering whether she is moving as gracefully as the scenery . 
If a strike ever hits the Met , the company can still sell tickets to his `` Boheme '' and `` Turandot '' and boom out recordings -LRB- of another era -RRB- 
Maybe Mr. Z. was too busy taming his set to work with his naturally ungainly Alfredo . 
This is the same production already seen in Paris and Florence 
In an invention that drives Verdi purists bananas , Violetta lies dying in bed during the prelude , rising deliriously 
In an invention that drives Verdi purists bananas , Violetta lies dying in bed during the prelude 
Given the prelude 's thematic connections with the music preceding the last act , the idea is more worn than bad 
Given the prelude 's thematic connections with the music preceding the last act , the idea is more worn than bad , though as luck would have it , for a change there actually was a conductor in the pit whom we wanted to hear , Carlos Kleiber , trying to make memorable music 
Once she did so , the big-souled German maestro with the shaky nerves who so often cancels offered a limpid , flowing performance that in its unswagged and unswaggering approach was totally at odds with the staging 
Of heart-pounding moments there were nearly none 
Speaking of dark nights , the Met 's next-door neighbor , the New York City Opera , has canceled its season 
As the Met discovered years ago following a belated December opening , it is nearly impossible to recapture subscribers 
As the Met discovered years ago following a belated December opening , it is nearly impossible to recapture subscribers once they have had time to ponder their entertainment choices . 
For all that , the piece landed unperformed in a dusty archive 
We know Verdi 's own contribution was mighty impressive 
His melodious `` Confutatis '' was smoothly sung by bass Brian Matthews . 
The Tokyo International Film Festival was no match for the Cannes Film Festival in terms of prestige 
At this year 's event , the third since the festival got under way in 1985 , Idrissa Ouedraogo of Burkina Faso won the Sakura Gold prize of $ 143,000 for `` Yaaba '' -LRB- `` Old Woman '' -RRB- . 
Vincent Tolentino , a correspondent for the French magazine Telerama , says of the recently ended Tokyo festival : `` No one makes deals 
Belgium decided that investors who demand the delivery of their securities 
While no figures exist , it is thought that many small investors in Belgium store securities privately 
`` This is the first time , if we decide to do so , for Japan to extend aid of this kind to Eastern European countries 
Japan is considering giving aid to Hungary and Poland to support their recent political reforms , a spokesman for the Foreign Ministry said . 
Under an agreement signed last June , the Soviets will help Iran in oil exploration and other areas in return for exports of Iranian natural gas . 
A Toto spokesman said the toilet not only tests blood pressure , pulse and urine 
Since Mexican President Carlos Salinas de Gortari took office last December , special agents have arrested more than 6,000 federal employees on charges ranging from extortion to tax evasion 
`` The rest will probably not be recoverable 
`` The rest will probably not be recoverable either because the statute of limitations expired 
`` The rest will probably not be recoverable 
In what has become a series of bad-news announcements , the world 's largest maker of supercomputers said that after reviewing its order prospects , `` we have concluded it is prudent to plan for next year on the assumption that revenue again will be flat 
Cray made its announcement 
Despite health-care cost controls and programs to hold down inventory , the professional division , which makes products including sutures and surgical stapling equipment , `` achieved solid growth , '' Johnson & Johnson said . 
Mr. Lothson of PaineWebber said the company 's sales pace has been picking up 
Mr. Lothson of PaineWebber said the company 's sales pace has been picking up largely because the effect of unfavorable exchange rates has been easing -- a pattern continuing this quarter . 
While the third period contained no major surprises , Mr. Lothson said , the results show how sensitive the multinationals can be to developments in a single country such as Brazil 
While the third period contained no major surprises , Mr. Lothson said , the results show how sensitive the multinationals can be to developments in a single country such as Brazil . 
One of Dun & Bradstreet 's chief businesses is compiling reports that rate the credit-worthiness of millions of American companies . 
Net income rose to 83 cents a share from 72 cents a share the year-earlier period . 
The stock received another blow on Friday , when Goldman Sachs analyst Eric Philo advised that investors with short-term horizons should avoid Dun & Bradstreet stock 
Insider selling is not unusual at Dun & Bradstreet 
Insider selling is not unusual at Dun & Bradstreet ; in fact , the recent pace of selling is just about average for the company , according to figures compiled by Invest\/Net , a North Miami , Fla. , firm that specializes in tracking and analyzing SEC insider filings . 
But previous sales have often been sales of shares purchased through the exercise of stock options and sold six months later 
A spokesman for Mr. Miles said he bought the shares 
The executive made his purchases 
On Wall Street , Merrill Lynch & Co. analyst Daniel A. Roling rates the stock `` neutral 
Now , only God exists as a matter of absolute necessity ; it is built into His nature . 
If mutation and natural selection slowly but surely give rise to more and more advanced forms of life 
If mutation and natural selection slowly but surely give rise to more and more advanced forms of life , then it was only a matter of eons 
Star lecturer at Harvard , author of numerous popular books on science , and scourge of the creationist lobby , Mr. Gould is perhaps the world 's most eminent evolutionary theorist . 
The received Darwinian wisdom of the day said that animals living so long ago must be simple in design , limited in scope and ancestral to contemporary species . 
A good deal of the book is boring , particularly the endless allusions to high and pop culture and the frequent jokes festooning the text . 
Interest picks up , though 
Not long after the appearance of life , evidently , there was an explosive proliferation in the number of animal designs seen on the earth . 
The vast majority of them , however , were wiped out by a succession of environmental upheavals that were too sudden and catastrophic for the normal rules of natural selection to operate . 
Our mammalian forerunners lucked out through the extraterrestrial impact that did in the dinosaurs 
If anyone has difficulty imagining a world in which history went merrily on without us , Mr. Gould sketches several 
Back when the Burgess fauna were flourishing , it seems , human evolutionary hopes hung on the survival of a little worm with a backbone called Pikaia 
Mr. Gould finds this oddly exhilarating ; like an existentialist of old , he views our contingency as `` a source of both freedom and consequent moral responsibility . '' 
I , by contrast , can not help feeling that if some other curiosity from the Burgess Shale had survived instead , beings at once wiser and less boorish than Homo sapiens might have eventually gained earthly dominion 
Back when the Burgess fauna were flourishing , it seems , human evolutionary hopes hung on the survival of a little worm with a backbone called Pikaia . 
I , by contrast , can not help feeling that if some other curiosity from the Burgess Shale had survived instead , beings at once wiser and less boorish than Homo sapiens might have eventually gained earthly dominion . 
But even if no conscious life had evolved here at all , the universe is a big place , and given the right conditions , sympathetic to creating some form of life 
They discourage prosecutors , under certain circumstances , from seeking court orders seizing the assets of racketeering defendants prior to trial . 
Critics have complained that the law unfairly strips defendants of assets 
Critics have complained that the law unfairly strips defendants of assets before a jury determines they have committed a crime 
In the new guidelines , the Justice Department says that in attempting to freeze disputed assets before trial , `` the government will not seek to disrupt the normal , legitimate business activities of the defendant '' and `` will not seek ... to take from third parties assets legitimately transferred to them . '' 
`` The impact , if there is any , will be impossible to judge ahead of time 
`` The impact , if there is any , will be impossible to judge ahead of time 
In a memorandum describing the guidelines , Assistant Attorney General Edward Dennis Jr. said that government efforts to freeze defendants ' assets pending racketeering prosecutions `` have been the subject of considerable criticism in the press . '' 
The state had sought as much as $ 4.1 billion in relief 
California 's so-called Gann limit effectively prevents the state from spending new tax money 
Both Mr. Brown , the state 's most influential legislator , and Gov. Deukmejian favor a temporary sales tax increase -- should more money be needed than the state can raise from existing sources and the federal government . 
According to a spokesman , the governor is also studying the possibility of raising state gasoline taxes . 
Mr. Brown , meanwhile , believes `` only one tax will be feasible 
The fund has about $ 1 billion and is set up to handle `` precisely the kind of emergency '' the state faces , said Tom Beermann , the Governor 's deputy press secretary . 
But the fund 's size is disputed by Mr. Brown 's office , which estimates the fund holds from $ 630 million to $ 800 million . 
Both Mr. Brown , the state 's most influential legislator , and Gov. Deukmejian favor a temporary sales tax increase -- should more money be needed than the state can raise from existing sources and the federal government . 
To push through a sales tax increase , however , the state will have to suspend the Gann limit , citing an emergency . 
To push through a sales tax increase , however , the state will have to suspend the Gann limit , citing an emergency . 
And then it will be required to lower taxes by a corresponding amount during a three-year period 
A sales tax increase would require two-thirds approval in both houses of the state 's legislature . 
`` If there 's an emergency and there are n't sufficient funds from elsewhere , I think the attitude will be supportive 
`` If there 's an emergency 
But observers expect broad support . 
But others think property owners ought to pay a higher portion of the state 's earthquake relief tab . To push through a sales tax increase , however , the state will have to suspend the Gann limit , citing an emergency . 
The state could also increase gasoline taxes ; every one penny increase in the tax would yield $ 11 million a month . 
To raise more highway funds , a measure to double the state 's nine-cent a gallon tax over five years is set to appear on the state 's June election ballot . 
To raise more highway funds , a measure to double the state 's nine-cent a gallon tax over five years is set to appear on the state 's June election ballot . 
California legislators , searching for ways to pay for the $ 4 billion to $ 6 billion in damages from last week 's earthquake , are laying the groundwork for a temporary increase in the state 's sales tax . 
The men can defeat immunities that states often assert in court by showing that officials knew or should have known that design of the structure was defective 
The issue includes $ 100 million of insured senior lien bonds . 
The $ 82.8 million of Series B bonds , which are n't subject to the alternative minimum tax , were priced at par to yield from 6.85 % in 2000 to 7.20 % in 2009 . 
People start their own businesses for many reasons . 
Ironically , the person who wants to run his or her own business is probably the active , results-oriented sort most likely to hate meeting the rules and record-keeping demands of federal , state and local regulators . 
There is hope of change . 
Thus , optimistic entrepreneurs await a promised land of less red tape 
Thus , optimistic entrepreneurs await a promised land of less red tape -- just as soon as Uncle Sam gets around to arranging it . 
Some entrepreneurs say the red tape they most love to hate 
Some gripes about red tape are predictable : Architects complain about a host of building regulations , auto leasing companies about car insurance rules . Complying with environmental and workplace regulations runs a close second . Taxi , leasing and other companies that maintain fleets of vehicles devote substantial resources to complying with state insurance laws and a host of agencies . The most onerous , many entrepreneurs say , is the record-keeping and filing required by tax authorities . 
One state environmental regulator returned a report 
Employers must deposit withholding taxes exceeding $ 3,000 within three days after payroll -- or pay stiff penalties 
It 's especially nettlesome 
It 's especially nettlesome `` if you 're on the road 
An employer leaves itself open to a great deal of liability 
An employer leaves itself open to a great deal of liability if its employee manuals do n't reflect the most recent laws , he says . 
`` It does n't increase benefits 
Advertising agencies and other service companies are exempt from city and state sales tax in most locales 
When the Trinity Repertory Theater named Anne Bogart its artistic director last spring , the nation 's theatrical cognoscenti arched a collective eyebrow 
Ms. Bogart , an acclaimed creator of deconstructed dramatic collages that tear into such sacred texts as Rodgers and Hammerstein 's `` South Pacific , '' is decidedly downtown . 
For Ms. Bogart , who initially studied and directed in Germany -LRB- and cites such European directors as Peter Stein , Giorgio Strehler and Ariane Mnouchkine as influences -RRB- tends to stage her productions with a Brechtian rigor -- whether the text demands it or not . 
Gorky was a loyal if occasionally ambivalent proletarian writer committed to enlightening the masses with plain speaking rooted in a slightly sour version of Chekhovian humanism . 
And `` Summerfolk , '' penned in 1904 as a kind of sequel to Chekhov 's `` Cherry Orchard , '' is a lawn party of Russian yuppies engaged in an exhausting ideological fight to the finish between the allrightniks and the reformers . 
Despite the absence of samovars -LRB- and a tendency to turn the furniture upside down -RRB- , the production is rich in Russian ennui voiced by languorous folk sporting beige linen and rumpled cotton , with boaters and fishing poles aplenty . 
Not only do the actors stand outside their characters and make it clear they are at odds with them 
Like Peter Sellars , Ms. Bogart manipulates her actors 
Like Peter Sellars , Ms. Bogart manipulates her actors as if they were rag dolls , sprawling them on staircases , dangling them off tables , even hanging them from precipices 
The clash of ideologies survives this treatment 
As for the humor that Gorky 's text provides , when repainted in such broad strokes -LRB- particularly by the lesser members of the ensemble -RRB- it looks and sounds forced 
Ms. Bogart does better with music than with words 
Here she has the aid of her longtime associate Jeff Helpern , whom she appointed Trinity 's first-ever musical director 
Like Brecht , and indeed Ezra Pound , Ms. Bogart has said that her intent in such manipulative staging of the classics is simply an attempt to `` make it new . '' 
Indeed , during a recent post-production audience discussion , the director explained that her fondest artistic wish was to find a way to play `` Somewhere Over the Rainbow 
Janice Duclos , in addition to possessing one of the evening 's more impressive vocal instruments , brings an unsuspected comedic touch to her role of Olga , everybody 's favorite mom . Marni Rice plays the maid with so much edge as to steal her two scenes . 
But it is the Trinity Rep newcomer , Jonathan Fried -LRB- Zamislov , the paralegal -RRB- who is the actor to watch , whether he is hamming it up 
`` ESB is aware that a hostile tender offer is being made by a foreign company for all of ESB 's shares , '' said F.J. Port , ESB 's president . 
ESB spurned Inco 
ESB spurned Inco and within five days ESB had a `` white knight 
ESB directors warmly accepted 
Within a few days in July , Inco raised its bid to $ 36 
On a single day Inco lifted its offer to $ 38 
United met the $ 38 
ESB on July 29 accepted the Inco offer 
HomeFed had been one of the handful of large West Coast thrifts that in recent quarters had counteracted interest-rate problems dogging the industry by keeping a lid on problem assets and lending heavily into the furious California housing market . 
However , HomeFed 's loan originations and purchases plunged 26 % in the quarter , to $ 1.4 billion from $ 1.9 billion a year earlier . 
It said sales of such properties were slower than anticipated in the third quarter 
Any such downturn in California would be grim news for West Coast thrifts , particularly the less healthy ones , which have performed poorly even with a torrid market . 
It said its real-estate operations earned a record $ 21.7 million , more than double year-earlier real estate profit of $ 9 million . 
Meanwhile , non-performing assets rose to $ 593 million from $ 518.7 million . 
Interest rates generally began declining last spring 
The average yield on six-month broker-sold CDs rose to 8.29 % from 8.05 % 
Only CDs sold by major brokerage firms posted significant increases in average yields in the latest week , reflecting increased yields on Treasury bills sold at Monday 's auction . 
The average yield on threemonth jumbos rose to 8.00 % from 7.96 % 
The small changes in averages reflect generally unchanged yields at many major banks . 
Some , however , lowered yields significantly . 
He said Wang had reached an agreement with a `` major financial firm '' to sell for $ 150 million its domestic equipment lease portfolio and that of its Wang Credit Corp. subsidiary . 
The company did n't disclose a purchase price or capitalization figures . 
The Oakland grocery retailer , closely held since a $ 4.2 billion leveraged buy-out in 1986 , said profit for the three months ended Sept. 9 was $ 7.1 million , compared with $ 23 million a year earlier . 
Benjamin Jacobson & Sons has been the New York Stock Exchange specialist firm in charge of trading stock in UAL Corp. and its predecessors since the early 1930s . 
When it did a half-hour into the session , it was priced at $ 150 a share , down more than $ 28 from Monday 's close 
It sank further to as low as $ 145 
Munching pizza 
Munching pizza when they could and yelling 
`` It was chaotic . 
The news told them it would be a while longer 
When Mr. Jacobson walked into the office at 7:30 a.m. EDT , he announced : `` OK , buckle up 
UAL , which closed on the Big Board Monday at $ 178.375 a share 
In the 45 minutes before the 9:30 opening bell , the Jacobson specialists kept getting sell orders , heavier than they imagined . 
That range was quickly narrowed to $ 145 to $ 155 
When UAL finally opened a half hour late , some 400,000 shares traded at $ 150 
On that earlier day , the stock 's trading was halted at a critical time 
Mr. Jacobson , his gray hair flying , did n't wear out his red-white-and-blue sneakers 
Mr. Bates usually handles day-to-day UAL trading on his own . 
About 30 floor traders crammed near the UAL post most of the day 
The Bear Stearns order that marked the late-day turnaround caused a `` massive buying effort 
Britain 's current account deficit dropped to # 1.6 billion -LRB- $ 2.56 billion -RRB- in September from an adjusted # 2 billion -LRB- $ 3.21 billion -RRB- the previous month 
`` The outlook has deteriorated since the summer , with orders and employment falling and output at a standstill , '' said David Wigglesworth , chairman of the industry group 's economic committee . 
Of 1,224 companies surveyed , 31 % expect to cut spending on plant equipment and machinery 
Of 1,224 companies surveyed , 31 % expect to cut spending on plant equipment and machinery , while only 28 % plan to spend more . 
But despite mounting recession fears , government data do n't yet show the economy grinding to a halt . 
Unemployment , for example , has continued to decline 
But despite mounting recession fears , government data do n't yet show the economy grinding to a halt . 
David Owen , U.K. economist with Kleinwort Benson Group , reduced his growth forecast for 1990 to 0.7 % from 1.2 % and termed the risk of recession next year `` quite high . '' 
But despite mounting recession fears , government data do n't yet show the economy grinding to a halt . 
Still , Britain 's current slump is a cause for concern here 
Compared with the major economies on the Continent , the U.K. faces both higher inflation and lower growth in the next several months . 
Britain 's latest trade figures contained some positive news for the economy , such as a surge in the volume of exports , which were 8.5 % higher than a year earlier . 
But while September exports rose to # 8.43 billion , imports shot up to # 10.37 billion 
`` When the country gets wealthier , we tend to buy high-quality imports 
The company said it expects to receive acceptances for its offer of 253 pence -LRB- $ 4.05 -RRB- per share representing at least 67 % of Ross Catherall 's issued share capital , or 12.7 million ordinary shares . 
If bluebloods wo n't pay high prices for racehorses anymore , who will 
The Thoroughbred Owners and Breeders Association , a Lexington , Ky.-based trade group , has launched `` seminars '' for `` potential investors '' at race tracks around the country . 
`` People in this business have been insulated , '' says Josh Pons , a horse breeder from Bel Air , Md . 
Mr. Hulings gloats that he sold all his stocks 
Mr. Hulings gloats that he sold all his stocks a week before the market plummeted 190 points on Oct. 13 
`` Just imagine how exciting that would be 
Breeders are betting on the common folk . 
`` You have to go into it firmly believing that it 's the kind of investment where you can lose everything . '' 
Since then , prices have slumped , to an average of $ 395,374 this summer . 
Even while they move outside their traditional tony circle , racehorse owners still try to capitalize on the elan of the sport 
For starters , racehorse buyers have to remember the basic problem of such ventures : These beasts do n't come with warranties . 
One brown two-year-old filly was wheezing from a cold 
Some badly managed partnerships have burned investors 
Some badly managed partnerships have burned investors , sometimes after they received advice from industry `` consultants . '' 
So owners have developed a `` code of ethics , '' outlining rules for consultants and agents , and disclosure of fees and any conflicts of interest . 
At a yearling sale , a buyer can go solo and get a horse for a few thousand dollars . 
Dunkin ' Donuts Inc. , battling a takeover proposal by Canada 's DD Acquisition Corp. , said that its directors will evaluate takeover offers submitted by Nov. 10 . 
Dunkin ' Donuts Chairman and Chief Executive Robert M. Rosenberg said `` a sale is one alternative being considered 
Strong profit in the process industries , including chemical and pulp and paper , were offset by higher interest expense and by lower earnings 
Combustion reported improved profits in its automation and control products businesses 
Claude Bebear , chairman and chief executive officer , of Axa-Midi Assurances , pledged to retain employees and management of Farmers Group Inc. , including Leo E. Denlea Jr. , chairman and chief executive officer 
Mr. Bebear added that the French insurer would keep Farmers ' headquarters in Los Angeles and `` will not send French people to run the company . '' 
Any acquisition of Farmers needs the approval of insurance commissioners in the nine states where Farmers operates 
Although Axa has been rebuffed by Farmers and has n't had any meetings with management , Mr. Bebear nonetheless appears to be trying to woo the company 's executives with promises of autonomy and new-found authority under Axa 
Although Axa has been rebuffed by Farmers and has n't had any meetings with management 
A company spokesman said the gain on the sale could n't be estimated 
That division 's revenue rose 2.3 % to $ 472.5 million from $ 461.9 million in the year-ago period . 
The case strikes at the corporate image of GE , which provides the military with everything from jet engines and electronic warfare equipment to highly classified design work on the Strategic Defense Initiative , and could cause a loss of future defense contracts 
The company has been considered an industry leader in advocating cooperation and voluntary disclosures of improper or inflated billing practices . 
In order to show that all of its units had corrected billing problems 
When GE finally disclosed the problems , prosecutors contend that Mr. Orr `` was erroneously informed that the -LCB- suspected -RCB- practices had only just been discovered '' by GE management 
Prosecutors depict a company that allegedly sat on damaging evidence of overcharges from 1983 to 1985 , despite warnings from an internal auditor . 
GE , which was surprised by the last-minute subpoena for more than 100 boxes and file cabinets of documents , countered that senior GE managers did n't find out about questionable billing practices until 1985 
Subsequent meetings , initiated 
The company 's conduct `` does not even raise a question of wrongful corporate intent , ratification or cover-up , '' GE 's brief asserts . 
A spokeswoman for the St. Louis aerospace and defense concern said it wanted the acquistion 
A spokeswoman for the St. Louis aerospace and defense concern said it wanted the acquistion because Applied Solar is involved in solar cells and solid-state laser components 
Brian Hemming , a spokesman for the company 's committee of independent directors , established in May to solicit and evaluate offers for the company , said it was expected to make an announcement early this morning . 
Cineplex traded on the New York Stock Exchange at $ 11.25 a share , up $ 1.125 
Tokyo 's winning streak came to an end 
The trade and CBI reports refocused attention on high interest rates and corporate profitability and helped rekindle underlying concerns over prospects for a recession in the U.K. , dealers said . 
Market watchers also noted an absence of institutional interest later in the session helped pave the way for broader declines 
They added that market-makers were knocking share prices down in midafternoon in a bid to attract some interest 
On the life insurance side , Pearl Group finished 5 lower at 640 
Dealers said the market did n't react substantially to Ford Motor Co. 's disclosure to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission that it will seek 100 % of Jaguar 's shares outstanding 
Observers said the market again failed to find a trading focus , discouraging much participation by investors . 
The market , however , is expected to remain stable 
Toshiyuki Nishimura , an analyst at Yamaichi Securities , said , `` The market sentiment is bullish 
Buying activity Tuesday centered on a wide range of midcapitalization , domestic demand-related shares whose prices range from 1,000 to 2,000 yen . 
On the other hand , high-priced shares such as Pioneer Electronic and Sony failed to spark investor interest 
TDK fell 120 to 5,960 , Fuji Photo Film declined 160 to 4,830 
Share prices on the Frankfurt stock exchange closed sharply lower in thin dealings 
Traders said the market was exceptionally thin 
Market participants say investors are not only licking their wounds following the turbulence last week 
Market participants say investors are not only licking their wounds following the turbulence last week 
Traders say investors are worried that the CDU wo n't be able to hold office in federal elections at the end of 1990 . 
Traders say investors are worried that the CDU wo n't be able to hold office in federal elections at the end of 1990 . 
The decline in prices cut broadly through the blue-chip issues 
The decline in prices cut broadly through the blue-chip issues , as Siemens tumbled 7.5 to 544 , Deutsche Bank plunged 7 to 657 
Daimler-Benz dropped 12.5 to 710.5 , Bayerische Motoren Werke dropped 10.5 to 543.5 
Savings and loans reject blacks for mortgage loans twice as often as they reject whites , the Office of Thrift Supervision said . 
The office , an arm of the Treasury , said it does n't have data on the financial position of applicants 
The office , an arm of the Treasury , said it does n't have data on the financial position of applicants and thus ca n't determine why blacks are rejected more often . 
Sen. Alan Dixon -LRB- D , Ill. -RRB- , chairman of the subcommittee on consumer and regulatory affairs , said , `` I 'm not a statistician . 
But when blacks are getting their loan applications rejected twice as often as whites -- and in some cities , it is three and four times as often -- I conclude that discrimination is part of the problem 
But when blacks are getting their loan applications rejected twice as often as whites 
James Grohl , a spokesman for the U.S. League of Savings Institutions , said , `` The data is a red flag 
Sen. Dixon held the hearing to follow up on a provision in the savings and loan bailout bill that required regulators to report on evidence of discimination in mortgage lending . 
The legislation also requires broad new disclosures of the race , sex and income level of borrowers 
The Federal Reserve said its studies in recent years , which adjust for income differences and other variables , showed that blacks received fewer home mortgages from banks and thrifts than whites . 
But John LaWare , a Fed governor , told the subcommittee the evidence is mixed 
But John LaWare , a Fed governor , told the subcommittee the evidence is mixed and that the Fed 's believes the vast majority of banks are n't discriminating . 
`` If we 've got folks out there who are being turned away in the mortgage market improperly and unfairly 
The comptroller 's office said it found no indications of illegal discrimination in 3,437 examinations of banks since April 1987 . 
The agency investigated the complaints 
Using testers could be controversial with financial institutions 
Time Warner Inc. is considering a legal challenge to Tele-Communications Inc. 's plan to buy half of Showtime Networks Inc. , a move that could lead to all-out war between the cable industry 's two most powerful players . 
Tele-Communications is HBO 's largest customer 
The executives say Time may seek to break up the transaction 
Jerome Kern , Tele-Communications ' chief outside counsel , said he was n't aware of Time 's legal plans . 
`` It 's hard to see how an investment by the largest -LCB- cable operator -RCB- in the weaker of the two networks is anti-competitive 
In addition to owning HBO , with 22 million subscribers 
Tele-Communications controls close to 12 million cable subscribers 
Time argues that in joining up with Tele-Communications , Viacom has potentially more power 
Time argues that in joining up with Tele-Communications 
Together , they control nearly 40 % of Turner Broadcasting Systems Inc. ; Tele-Communications has a 21.8 % stake 
Ironically , Tele-Communications and Time have often worked closely in the cable business . 
In its suit against Time , Viacom says the ownership of both cable systems and cable-programming networks gives the company too much market power . Time argues that in joining up with Tele-Communications , Viacom has potentially more power , particularly since Viacom also owns cable networks MTV , VH-1 and Nick at Nite . 
Viacom accuses Time in its suit of refusing to carry Showtime or a sister service , The Movie Channel , on Time 's Manhattan Cable TV system , one of the nation 's largest urban systems . 
Viacom accuses Time in its suit of refusing to carry Showtime or a sister service , The Movie Channel , on Time 's Manhattan Cable TV system , one of the nation 's largest urban systems . 
Showtime has also accused HBO of locking up the lion 's share of Hollywood 's movies by signing exclusive contracts with all the major studios . 
Under federal law , if the court grants a preliminary injunction , the FTC must begin administrative proceedings to determine the legality of the proposed stock purchase within 20 days 
Citing rising fuel costs , promotional fare cuts and a general slowdown in travel , several major carriers have posted or are expected to post relatively poor third-quarter results . So far , the industry 's fourth quarter is n't looking too strong either , prompting many analysts to slash earning projections for the rest of the year by as much as one-fourth . 
This turn of events has put a big damper on an industry that seemed almost invincible last spring , when fares were rising at double-digit rates 
Now , many airline companies might become a lot less attractive as takeover targets on Wall Street . 
This turn of events has put a big damper on an industry that seemed almost invincible last spring , when fares were rising at double-digit rates and many carriers seemed to be growing fat on near-monopolies in certain markets . 
Others have tried to spruce up frequent-flier programs . 
Previously , airlines were limiting the programs 
For travelers , though , the industry 's problems have had some positive effects . 
Shortly before that , USAir had said its third-quarter results would be `` significantly lower '' than a year earlier 
The results surprised many analysts 
Shortly after announcing its quarterly loss , USAir 's stock tumbled $ 3 a share 
It said the industry 's domestic traffic was flat in the third quarter ; analysts say this was 
To try to combat the traffic slowdown , airlines started reducing fares ; average fares rose only 1.7 % in August , in contrast to increases of 16 % each in February and March . 
But so far , the effort has failed 
This summer , the industry introduced a `` kids fly free '' program , in which children were allowed to fly free 
Airlines tried to restrict the program substantially by limiting the offer to certain days of the week 
Airlines tried to restrict the program substantially by limiting the offer to certain days of the week , but it still was apparently used far more heavily than the airlines expected . 
Airlines also say their frequent-flier programs are squeezing profits 
One airline official said about three times as many free-travel coupons are being turned in as in previous years -- not surprisingly 
Airlines also say their frequent-flier programs are squeezing profits because awards are being redeemed at a heavier-than-normal rate . Rising operating expenses are another problem . It said the industry 's domestic traffic was flat in the third quarter ; analysts say this was because hefty fare increases earlier in the year scared off many leisure travelers this summer . But so far , the effort has failed , and traffic is still slow . Some other fare promotions have backfired . 
And some carriers are facing other unexpected headaches 
Those Metropolitan Life ads were bad enough . 
Turns out that next year , Charlie Brown , Snoopy and the gang turn 40 
Ralston Purina will promote its Chex Party Mix 's three new flavor packets named for Charlie Brown , Lucy and Linus . 
Beyond the advertisements , the syndicator is planning a traveling arena show , new TV specials for CBS and even an exhibit at the Smithsonian Institute . 
`` If you want to cut through the clutter , you have to make your message as distinct , sharp and individual as possible 
All the tie-ins , though , have some marketing experts questioning whether the party may go too far . 
Metropolitan Life ad executives could n't be reached about the use of the Peanuts characters by others . 
Mr. Berry , 58 , had resigned 
Yesterday , just a day after Mr. Roman announced he would leave to take a top post at American Express , WPP said Mr. Berry would return to take an international role at the parent company 
Mr. Berry said the timing was a coincidence 
New York-based RJR Nabisco would n't say what it spends annually 
A majority stake in Paxus currently held by NZI Corp. will be diluted to slightly less than 50 % 
While some assets have been written down , others are undervalued in the accounts 
An investment in Chile 's telephone company is carried at US$ 300 million but really worth US$ 500 million 
Mercedes officials said they expect flat sales next year 
Most of the growth , he said , will come in the $ 35,000-to-$50,000 price range , where Mercedes has a 35 % U.S. market share . 
Mr. Krampe also said that Mercedes plans to bring out new models every year through the mid-1990s 
The Treasury said it will alter the auctions 
The company said its core businesses have performed well 
Domestic demand continues to grow 
Demand has been growing consistently under the encouragement of pro-consumption government policies , an association spokesman said . 
Minitruck production fell 13 % to 94,243 units . 
The board 's decision , announced 
The deepening bloodbath for takeover-stock traders 
The board 's decision , announced after the market closed Monday , initially prompted a severe sell-off in UAL shares , which at midday traded as low as $ 145 a share , down $ 33 a share , in composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange . 
The deepening bloodbath for takeover-stock traders , who by then had seen UAL stock tumble 49 % since Oct. 12 , also triggered a marketwide sell-off that sent the Dow Jones Industrial Average down more than 80 points at 10:40 a.m . 
The deepening bloodbath for takeover-stock traders , who by then had seen UAL stock tumble 49 % since Oct. 12 , also triggered a marketwide sell-off that sent the Dow Jones Industrial Average down more than 80 points at 10:40 a.m . 
The two most frequently rumored buyers , neither of whom would comment , were Coniston Partners , which battled the UAL board in 1987 , and New York real estate developer Donald Trump , who recently made and withdrew an offer for American Airlines parent AMR Corp . 
However , one person familiar with UAL said the signs pointed to Coniston 
Baker , Nye Investments , a New York takeover-stock trader that owns UAL stock , would n't comment on reports the firm is considering seeking such a shareholder vote . 
In 1986 , Baker , Nye waged a proxy fight for control of Leaseway Transportation 
Some traders pointed hopefully to earlier estimates by UAL 's investment adviser , First Boston Corp. , that recapitalizations could yield $ 245 to $ 280 a share . 
The pilots are working under an expired contract 
Any investor who acquires UAL stock in an attempt to force a buy-out or recapitalization must deal with United 's contentious unions . 
One person familiar with UAL said the unsettled labor situation and the uncertain world-wide financial markets contributed to the board 's decision to avoid `` rushing around selling the company at a bargain price 
Even some takeover-stock traders said they could n't quarrel with the board 's logic . 
`` They check in 
Any investor who acquires UAL stock in an attempt to force a buy-out or recapitalization must deal with United 's contentious unions . 
The pilots might end up teaming up with their longtime adversaries , the machinists union , in a recapitalization . 
One person familiar with Texas billionaire Robert Bass said he is n't likely to make any hostile moves . 
And a spokesman for Reliance Group Holdings Inc. , which had held 7 % of UAL before the first buy-out bid 
The Los Angeles investor ca n't buy UAL stock , solicit shareholder consents or make a new offer 
The Los Angeles investor ca n't buy UAL stock , solicit shareholder consents or make a new offer unless he makes a formal offer of $ 300 a share or UAL accepts an offer below $ 300 . 
December copper opened near Monday 's close , tried to rally but failed 
Stop-loss orders are placed previously with instructions to execute them 
William Kaiser , president of the Kaiser Financial Group in Chicago , said the decline was almost certainly influenced by the early sell-off in the stock market , which partly reflected a weakening economy . 
But though a weakening economy implies reduced demand , Mr. Kaiser said that Third World copper-producing countries have n't any choice but to sell copper 
Technically , Mr. Kaiser noted that a lot of traders had bought into the market 
When the market fell below that level on Monday and then yesterday could n't climb above that level , traders started selling out their positions 
When the market fell below that level on Monday 
`` I believe that as soon as the selling abates somewhat we could see a rally back to the $ 1.20 region 
`` If the number is a little better 
`` If the number is a little better , then copper will respond positively , if it is worse 
Ms. Raptopoulos noted that relating economic numbers to specific market activity is tricky . 
Yesterday , for example , `` the durable goods numbers came out for September 
Yesterday , for example , `` the durable goods numbers came out for September and the number was down only 0.1 % , '' she said . 
`` However , if you exclude defense-related orders 
She noted that the preliminary estimate of the third-quarter gross national product is due out tomorrow and is expected to be up about 2.5 % to 3 % . 
I believe that number reflects a slowing economy . '' 
However , David Threlkeld , president of Threlkeld & Co. , an international metals company , noted that so far this year copper consumption is way ahead of the same period of 1988 
Mr. Threlkeld said the copper market seems to be anticipating a recession in three months , with declining use being the result . 
If there is n't a recession , he said , `` we will be out of copper by the end of March 
If there is a recession that will change the statistical situation 
Prices for the U.S. benchmark West Texas Intermediate crude remained locked in a fairly narrow range 
Several analysts and brokers said the petroleum market was ready to rally after two days of price declines from profit-taking . 
The industrial average recovered to close only 3.69 points lower 
He noted that two weeks ago there were rumors of Soviet sales of precious metals to finance grain purchases 
`` Gold still acts as a haven 
`` The high ratio reflects the fact that silver is still regarded as about a half-industrial metal 
GRAINS AND SOYBEANS : Prices closed lower 
The sale to the Chinese government of 330,000 metric tons of wheat under the government 's export enhancement program was announced after the close of trading Monday 
COCOA : Futures at first continued the rally begun on Monday 
The December contract opened just under Monday 's close , triggered some previously placed buy orders just above $ 1,030 a metric ton , pushing the price to $ 1,040 
He said even though there was arbitrage buying in New York because of the weak dollar , cocoa fell to relentless pressure from bearish traders 
He said even though there was arbitrage buying in New York because of the weak dollar , cocoa fell to relentless pressure from bearish traders . 
The December contract reached its life-of-contract low of $ 975 a ton on Oct. 11 ; its lifetime high was $ 1,735 , set in 1988 
The last time cocoa traded at prices as low as currently was in 1974 . 
But while further modest declines might be ahead , Mr. Hafer said it would be difficult to get through resistance levels just above yesterday 's high 
Color Systems Technology Inc. , Los Angeles , said its major creditor , General Electric Pension Trust , agreed to convert $ 11.8 million of debt owed into 25 % of Color System 's fully diluted common stock . 
General Electric Pension took control of the 85-title library last month 
Next to Kohlberg Kravis Roberts 's megabillion RJR Nabisco deal , SCI Television is small fry . 
SCI TV , which expects to release a plan to restructure $ 1.3 billion of debt in the next day or so , is n't just another LBO that went bad 
SCI TV , which expects to release a plan to restructure $ 1.3 billion of debt in the next day or so , is n't just another LBO that went bad after piling on debt 
SCI TV 's buy-out was an ace in the hole for Mr. Kravis and for investors in KKR partnerships . 
Some junk-holders are said to be considering legal action against KKR or moves to force SCI TV into bankruptcy court . 
Some junk-holders are said to be considering legal action against KKR or moves to force SCI TV into bankruptcy court . 
KKR loaded up the cable and television company with debt in an 1985 buy-out 
KKR loaded up the cable and television company with debt in an 1985 buy-out 
In this second LBO , KKR with one hand took more than $ 1 billion of cash out of the TV company 's assets and moved it into the Storer cable operations , making them more valuable in a 1988 sale . 
With the other hand , KKR put back into SCI TV less than 10 % of the cash it had taken out , buying SCI TV common and preferred shares . 
So , while KKR today has an estimated $ 250 million sunk in now-shaky SCI TV , including equity and debt , the LBO firm still is $ 1 billion ahead on the SCI TV buy-out after taking cash up front 
So , while KKR today has an estimated $ 250 million sunk in now-shaky SCI TV , including equity and debt , the LBO firm still is $ 1 billion ahead on the SCI TV buy-out 
So , while KKR today has an estimated $ 250 million sunk in now-shaky SCI TV , including equity and debt , the LBO firm still is $ 1 billion ahead on the SCI TV buy-out after taking cash up front . On Storer as a whole , KKR racked up compound annual returns of 60 % in the three years it owned Storer . 
Meanwhile , Mr. Gillett risks losing his entire equity investment of about $ 100 million in SCI TV 
Meanwhile , Mr. Gillett risks losing his entire equity investment of about $ 100 million in SCI TV if the company ca n't be restructured . 
With the TV business falling on hard times in recent years , analysts say that if SCI TV had to be liquidated today , it might fetch 30 % less than in the 1987 buy-out 
With the TV business falling on hard times in recent years , analysts say that if SCI TV had to be liquidated today , it might fetch 30 % less than in the 1987 buy-out , wiping out most of the company 's junk-holders and its stockholders . 
Meanwhile , SCI TV can barely pay its cash interest bill 
Negotiations `` have started con - structively 
No major player in the SCI TV deal will talk publicly . 
Mr. Kravis apparently thinks SCI TV can survive 
Mr. Kravis apparently thinks SCI TV can survive if lenders extend its debt payments 
They would both give part of their combined $ 50 million in common equity in SCI TV to holders of SCI TV 's $ 488 million of junk bonds , as a carrot to persuade them to accept new bonds that might reduce the value of their claims on the company . 
Junk-holders say they have a stick to beat KKR with : `` The threat of bankruptcy is a legitimate tool '' to extract money from KKR , says one big SCI TV holder . 
While KKR does n't control SCI TV which is unusual for a KKR investment -- it clearly has much deeper pockets than Mr. Gillett 
Bankruptcy specialists say Mr. Kravis set a precedent for putting new money in sour LBOs recently 
Bankruptcy specialists say Mr. Kravis set a precedent for putting new money in sour LBOs recently when KKR restructured foundering Seaman Furniture , doubling KKR 's equity stake . 
But with Seaman , KKR was only trying to salvage its original investment , says bankruptcy investor James Rubin of Sass Lamle Rubin in New York . 
By contrast , KKR probably has already made all the money it can on SCI TV . 
Rubbermaid Inc. , reflecting strong earnings growth , boosted its quarterly dividend 18 % , to 13 cents a share from 11 cents . 
Some changes to the plan were minor adjustments 
Some changes to the plan were minor adjustments , but the most significant was an amendment that provides that if any investor holds 25 % or more of Rubbermaid 's voting securities , each right held by others would entitle the holder to buy Rubbermaid shares with a market value of twice the right 's exercise price 
The stock market went on a dizzying ride 
Takeover stock speculation and futures-related program trading drove the industrial average through wide ranges . 
As stocks and stock-index futures fell , a trading limit was hit in the S&P 500 stock futures pit 
That caused a brief period of panic selling of stocks on the Big Board . 
They scooped up hundreds of S&P futures 
Five minutes before the Big Board opened , a preliminary price was flashed for UAL -- somewhere between 135 and 155 , a loss of as much as $ 43 a share from Monday 's close 
A UAL statement after the market closed Monday indicated that the airline 's board wanted to keep the company independent , effectively crushing hopes of an immediate buy-out . Five minutes before the Big Board opened , a preliminary price was flashed for UAL -- somewhere between 135 and 155 , a loss of as much as $ 43 a share from Monday 's close . 
`` There was a seething mass of people , '' said one floor trader . 
At 10:33 , when the S&P 500 December futures contract crunched to a 12-point loss under the force of sell programs , S&P futures trading was halted 
Under the rules adopted by the Chicago Mercantile Exchange , the futures contract can not drop below the limit 
The trading halt in the S&P 500 futures exacerbated selling and confusion , many traders maintain . 
But as the fright began to spread through the S&P pit , the big brokerage firms came in and bought futures aggressively 
These firms sold stock into the big morning decline , but seeing the velocity of the market 's drop , held back on their offsetting purchases of futures 
These firms sold stock into the big morning decline , but seeing the velocity of the market 's drop , held back on their offsetting purchases of futures until the S&P futures hit the trading limit . 
Then they completed the other side of the trade by buying futures , which abruptly halted the stock market 's decline 
From then on , the Dow industrials held at a loss of 40 to 50 points . 
Then , in late-afternoon trading , hundred-thousand-share buy orders for UAL hit the market , including a 200,000-share order through Bear Stearns that seemed to spark UAL 's late price surge . 
The combined buying rallied the Dow into a small gain 
Some institutional traders loved the wild ride . 
`` Credibility sounds intangible . 
But I think we are losing credibility 
But I think we are losing credibility because when the market does this , it does n't present itself as a rational investment 
But I think we are losing credibility because when the market does this , it does n't present itself as a rational investment . 
But if you overlook all this , it is a beautiful market for investment still 
Other airline stocks fell in response to the UAL board 's decision to remain independent for now , including USAir Group 
AMR , the parent of American Airlines , fell 1 3\/4 to 68 7\/8 on 2.3 million shares ; Delta Air Lines lost 1 1\/2 to 66 , Southwest Airlines slid 3\/4 to 24 1\/4 
UAL finished at 170 , off 8 3\/8 . Other airline stocks fell in response to the UAL board 's decision to remain independent for now , including USAir Group , which separately reported a third-quarter loss of $ 1.86 a share compared with a year-ago profit . 
Metals stocks also were especially weak 
Aluminum Co. of America dropped 1 1\/2 to 70 1\/4 , Phelps Dodge fell 4 to 59 7\/8 , Asarco lost 1 3\/8 to 31 3\/4 , Reynolds Metals slid 1 3\/8 to 50 3\/8 , Amax dropped 1 1\/8 to 21 5\/8 
Alcan Aluminium was an exception 
BankAmerica dropped 1 1\/4 to 29 1\/2 on 2.3 million shares amid rumors that the earthquake last week in the San Francisco area had caused structural damage to its headquarters building . 
Great Western Financial lost 1 1\/8 to 20 1\/2 on 1.6 million shares , Golden West Financial dropped 1 1\/4 to 28 1\/2 
Golden Valley Microwave Foods skidded 3 5\/8 to 31 3\/4 
Vista Chemical rose 1 3\/8 to 38 5\/8 
I 've learned one thing from candidates , A technique so deftly done : If a question ca n't be answered , Strongly answer an unasked one 
After being whipsawed by a volatile stock market , Treasury bonds closed higher 
After being whipsawed by a volatile stock market , Treasury bonds closed higher . 
Early in the day , bond dealers said trading volume was heavy 
That happens 
That happens when nervous stock investors dump equities and buy Treasurys , which are higher in quality 
`` Some retail accounts , such as commercial banks and pension funds , wanted to get on the bandwagon 
At one point , the Dow Jones Industrial average fell about 80 points on news that UAL Corp. decided to remain independent . In response , Treasury prices soared 1 1\/8 points , or about $ 11.25 for each $ 1,000 face amount . 
But the gains in Treasury bonds were pared 
Early in the day , bond dealers said trading volume was heavy as large institutional investors scrambled to buy long-term Treasury bonds on speculation that the stock market 's volatility would lead to a `` flight-to-quality '' rally . 
While they do n't expect the Fed to move right away , they say the case for lower rates is building 
While they do n't expect the Fed to move right away , they say the case for lower rates is building . 
Yesterday , for example , the Commerce Department reported that new orders for durable goods fell 0.1 % 
The Treasury 's 30-year bond ended over 1\/4 point higher . Municipal , mortgage-backed and investment-grade corporate bonds rose 1\/8 to 1\/2 point . 
Trading activity in the junk market was extremely light 
`` While the stock market was falling , most -LCB- junk bond holders -RCB- were just watching it not knowing what to do 
Credit analysts said investors are nervous about the issue 
Credit analysts said investors are nervous about the issue because they say the company 's ability to meet debt payments is dependent on too many variables , including the sale of assets and the need to mortgage property to retire some existing debt . 
Trading activity in the junk market was extremely light as dealers could n't find enough buyers to match sellers . 
`` People are looking past supply to lower interest rates 
`` People are looking past supply to lower interest rates 
The new two-year notes were priced with an average yield of 7.74 % . That was higher than the 7.71 % to 7.73 % average yield that traders had expected . In when-issued trading , the notes were quoted at a price to yield 7.78 % . 
Dealers said players shied away from the note sale 
Dealers said players shied away from the note sale because they were concerned that prices at the time of the auction might erode 
Dealers said players shied away from the note sale because they were concerned that prices at the time of the auction might erode if the stock market staged a recovery 
`` They are typically not active in two-year note auctions 
`` Interest by Japanese investors was limited , '' said Michael Moran , chief economist at Daiwa Securities America Inc . 
However , Mr. Moran added that the Japanese generally have a positive view of the U.S. bond market because of expectations that the dollar will remain strong 
The discount rate on three-month Treasury bills was quoted at 7.52 % for a bond-equivalent yield of 7.75 % 
Rates are determined by the difference between the purchase price and face value . 
Thus , higher bidding narrows the investor 's return 
Citicorp issued $ 200 million of seven-year notes priced to yield 8.82 % 
Several blue-chip companies tapped the new-issue market yesterday to take advantage of falling interest rates . 
Traders said municipals were underpinned by influences including the climb in Treasury issue prices . 
Also , municipal bonds lured buying 
Also , municipal bonds lured buying because the stock market remains wobbly , traders contended . Traders said municipals were underpinned by influences including the climb in Treasury issue prices . 
The derivative markets remained active 
The derivative markets remained active as one new issue was priced 
Among major pass-through issues , Ginnie Mae 9 % securities for November delivery ended at 98 15\/32 , up 5\/32 
The Ginnie Mae 9 % issue was yielding 9.34 % to a 12-year average life assumption 
The Eurodollar bond market sprang to life late in the European trading session 
Eurodollar bonds are often issued by foreign corporations 
The Eurodollar bond market sprang to life late in the European trading session after the Dow Jones Industrial Average tumbled . 
Prices of European government bonds also rose 
West Germany 's 7 % issue due October 1999 rose 0.13 point to 99.93 to yield 7.01 % 
Britain 's 11 3\/4 % Treasury bond due 2003\/2007 rose 17\/32 to 112 6\/32 to yield 10.05 % 
Staar Surgical Co. 's board said that it has removed Thomas R. Waggoner as president and chief executive officer 
Mr. Waggoner has been involved in a dispute with the board since August , when he ousted all the directors . 
Later they said they fired him 
The company 's latest announcement said Mr. Waggoner will remain a director of Staar , a maker of products for small-incision surgery . 
The Staar board also said that John R. Ford resigned as a director 
After the legislature confirmed him as the Communist Party leader , Krenz said demonstrations to demand democratic freedoms could cause a `` worsening of the situation , or confrontation 
After the legislature confirmed him as the Communist Party leader , Krenz said demonstrations to demand democratic freedoms could cause a `` worsening of the situation , or confrontation . '' 
After the legislature confirmed him as the Communist Party leader , Krenz said demonstrations to demand democratic freedoms could cause a `` worsening of the situation , or confrontation . '' He also reaffirmed East Germany 's allegiance to Communist orthodoxy . 
The Iran-Contra judge agreed to allow Poindexter to subpoena the personal papers of ex-President Reagan , ruling that there was sufficient evidence that the data would be important to the defense . 
San Francisco Bay area officials said nine people remain missing in the aftermath of last week 's earthquake . The death toll rose to 63 . 
The House , meanwhile , approved $ 2.85 billion to aid in the recovery from the temblor and from Hurricane Hugo 
Israel provided the State Department with a list of recent alleged terrorist incidents attributed to forces controlled by Arafat 
The ministers ordered a study on the strategic role of nuclear arms in Western Europe 
STOCK PRICES SWUNG wildly 
Bond prices surged in reaction to the sell-off in stocks 
The stock closed down $ 8.375 , at $ 170 
Jaguar has been discussing an alliance with GM 
Car and truck sales slid 20.5 % in mid-October 
Sears posted a 16 % drop in third-quarter profit 
Prenatal diagnosis of genetic defects as early as the sixth week of pregnancy is increasingly common today . 
Three days later , before the new embryo had become implanted in the uterus , it was washed out of the mother mouse 
One cell was teased out 
In the report , two molecular biologists suggest such embryo diagnosis can be used by couples at high risk of passing a genetic defect to a child . 
When the fertilized cells divide to eight cells , a single cell from each embryo can be tested for genetic defects 
A healthy embryo can be picked for implantation 
A healthy embryo can be picked for implantation and defective ones discarded . 
Or in other couples , the embryo could be temporarily taken out and tested three days after conception and returned 
Or in other couples , the embryo could be temporarily taken out and tested three days after conception and returned if healthy , or discarded 
Phillips found and improved a yeast , `` Pichia pastoris , '' which made protein from natural gas-derived alcohol . 
Single-cell protein never panned out 
Single-cell protein never panned out , and most companies abandoned such research . 
Like the bacteria used by genetic engineers , the yeast can take in human genes and churn out human proteins for medical use . 
Like the bacteria used by genetic engineers , the yeast can take in human genes and churn out human proteins for medical use . But the yeast genetic apparatus is more like that of animals than the bacterial genetic apparatus . 
Thus , the proteins from the yeast are molecularly more like human proteins than those from bacteria . 
It relies on the fact that certain atoms give off detectable signals 
In the Bell Labs experiments , an MRI-type of machine , synchronized with the heartbeat via an electrocardiogram , rapidly flashes a magnetic field on and off 
The rapidly flashing return signals from excited hydrogen atoms in the blood give a `` stop-motion '' movie of the blood-filled vessel , -LRB- like the `` stop-motion '' seen in disco dancers 
They 've been able to measure the minuscule movements of the artery wall 
In the suit , the department seeks to recover $ 7.7 million in costs incurred 
In the suit , the department seeks to recover $ 7.7 million in costs incurred when the government terminated its contract with Meredith Relocation and sought other contracts to replace it . 
When such claims and litigation extend beyond the period , the syndicates can extend their accounting deadlines 
The procedure causes `` great uncertainty 
The open-year accounting practice `` is widely recognized within Lloyd 's as of serious concern '' to the 31,329 member investors , who underwrite insurance at Lloyd 's in return for premium and investment income , Lloyd 's said . The procedure causes `` great uncertainty '' because an investor ca n't be sure of his or her individual liability , Lloyd 's said . 
Under the new rules , the officials will have to secure additional information and reports from actuaries , including an assessment of whether officials have acted reasonably . 
The drop in earnings had been anticipated by most Wall Street analysts 
The drop in earnings had been anticipated by most Wall Street analysts , but the results were reported 
In August , the company warned investors that the acquisition was being delayed 
In August , the company warned investors that the acquisition was being delayed , and many customers were holding off on purchase decisions 
Despite such famous tenants as oil magnate John D. Rockefeller , Lake View Cemetery has fallen on hard times . 
`` We want people to think of Lake View as an historical park and educational experience ... . A pleasant place to come and spend a few hours . '' 
Not all of the cemetery 's better-known tenants lend themselves to the promotional job at hand , however . 
Not all of the cemetery 's better-known tenants lend themselves to the promotional job at hand , however . For example , President James A. Garfield is entombed here , the victim of an assassination in 1881 . 
Mr. Rockefeller , buried beneath a 180-foot-tall granite obelisk , did n't seem right for an ad either . For example , President James A. Garfield is entombed here , the victim of an assassination in 1881 . 
Euro Disneyland shares made a debut like Snow White yesterday 
Albert Fried Jr. , a 59-year-old director and holder of a 9.5 % stake in the company , was named chairman of this maker of products for the construction equipment , material handling and railroad industries . 
Ford Motor Co. intensified its battle with General Motors Corp. over Jaguar PLC by saying it is prepared to make a bid for all of the British auto maker 
The British government currently forbids any outside investor from holding more than 15 % of the company 's shares without permission until Dec. 31 , 
Analysts have been expecting a GM-Jaguar pact that would give the U.S. car maker an eventual 30 % stake in the British company and create joint ventures that would produce an executive-model range of cars . 
Jaguar seems to be losing interest in giving GM a minority stake , said one individual close to the talks , adding , `` It would n't surprise me 
Sir John Egan , Jaguar 's chairman , so far has refused to meet with Ford officials 
Both Ford and GM badly need a luxury brand to combat new competition from the Japanese in the European and U.S. markets . 
The company has expressed a preference for GM over Ford 
Ford 's need to acquire some or all of Jaguar became more acute last week when it abandoned a four-year effort to market its German-built Merkur Scorpio sedan as a European luxury import in the U.S. . 
Its Opel line has a solid image and a recent string of highly successful new models 
GM 's interest in Jaguar reflects a desire to help diversify the U.S. company 's products in the growing luxury-car segment of the market . 
Texaco Inc. reported an 11 % increase in third-quarter earnings , which it attributed partly to the company 's massive restructuring 
Texaco Inc. reported an 11 % increase in third-quarter earnings , which it attributed partly to the company 's massive restructuring after it emerged from bankruptcy-law proceedings 18 months ago . 
Texaco Inc. reported an 11 % increase in third-quarter earnings , which it attributed partly to the company 's massive restructuring after it emerged from bankruptcy-law proceedings 18 months ago . Sun Co. also reported higher earnings . 
Texaco 's exploration and production earnings improved as a result of its streamlining of those operations 
Texaco 's exploration and production earnings improved as a result of its streamlining of those operations as it sold many of its marginal producing properties over the past 18 months . 
Per-share earnings declined to $ 1.10 a share from $ 1.12 a share , largely because of 21 million additional shares issued to retire $ 1 billion of debt . 
Chairman Robert McClements Jr. said the synthetic crude oil production from the facility rose 
Sun said some of the growth reflects higher earnings in the oil sands operation of Suncor , a majority-owned Canadian subsidiary . 
Overseas exploration and production results also improved because of additional output from the North Sea Magnus Field , a portion of which was acquired by Sun earlier this year . 
Chevron said higher crude oil prices boosted profits from production operations 
Asarco Inc. , continuing its effort to refocus its business , ended its involvement in asbestos mining in the third quarter and said it would stop mining and selling coal by year end . 
The company said that it is discussing a management-employee buy-out of the facility 
The percent difference compares actual profit with the 30-day estimate where at least three analysts have issues forecasts in the past 30 days . 
He was chairman and co-chief executive officer of Ladenburg , Thalmann & Co. until July , when he was named co-chairman of the investment-banking firm along with Howard L. Blum 
Mr. Blum added he was n't surprised Mr. Koenig resigned 
MCI Communications Corp. said it received a $ 12 million contract to provide virtual network services to Woolworth Corp. 's 5,600 corporate and retail sites in the 
Woolworth said it expects to expand usage of the MCI services 
Exports reached $ 5.12 billion , up from $ 4.52 billion a year earlier 
Analysts expect the trade gap for the year to surpass $ 2 billion 
Mr. Baker will relinquish his previous positions 
First Wachovia Corp. said John F. McNair III will retire as president and chief executive officer of this regional banking company 's Wachovia Corp. and Wachovia Bank & Trust Co. subsidiaries on Dec. 31 . Mr. McNair , 62 years old , will be succeeded by L.M. `` Bud '' Baker Jr. , 47 , the parent 's chief credit officer and head of its administration division . 
South Korean exports to the U.S. during the period fell 1.6 % from a year ago to $ 15.06 billion 
Officials said South Korean exports to Europe dropped 5.3 % to $ 3.02 billion 
These gains were partly offset by output of cars and other consumer durables , which eased 3.9 % from June 's high level . 
These gains were partly offset by output of cars and other consumer durables , which eased 3.9 % from June 's high level . 
Two Japanese scientists said they discovered an antibody that , in laboratory test-tube experiments , kills AIDS-infected cells 
If further experiments are successful , the work would represent a major advance in research on acquired immune deficiency syndrome 
Two Japanese scientists said they discovered an antibody that , in laboratory test-tube experiments , kills AIDS-infected cells while preserving healthy cells . 
But several analysts and Japanese scientists familiar with the study , which was announced at a conference in Nagoya yesterday , expressed skepticism over the significance of the results . 
If further experiments are successful , the work would represent a major advance in research on acquired immune deficiency syndrome . 
And the researchers themselves acknowledged they still must do much more work 
Shin Yonehara , a research scientist at the Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of Medical Science , said the antibody he discovered works by recognizing an antigen called a Fas-antigen , which is characteristic of an infected cell . 
In some of the experiments , it killed almost all the infected cells , the researchers said . Dr. Yonehara and his partner , Nobuyuki Kobayashi of Yamaguchi University , said their experiments showed that the antibody wiped out an average of 60 % of AIDS-infected cells within three days . 
In some of the experiments , it killed almost all the infected cells , the researchers said . Meanwhile , fewer than 10 % of the healthy cells were killed . Dr. Yonehara and his partner , Nobuyuki Kobayashi of Yamaguchi University , said their experiments showed that the antibody wiped out an average of 60 % of AIDS-infected cells within three days . 
The two said they must still do more laboratory tests 
The announcement got wide exposure in the Japanese media , and even moved some pharmaceutical stocks yesterday . 
He said some infected cells may not have the relevant antigen 
Dr. Kobayashi responded that he thought the antibody could potentially kill all infected cells . 
Dr. Kobayashi responded that he thought the antibody could potentially kill all infected cells . 
`` Our antibody specifically killed infected cells at a very low dose 
`` Our antibody specifically killed infected cells at a very low dose 
AIDS is n't considered a widespread problem in Japan 
Dr. Kitamura said about 35 projects are currently under way in Japan 
He said that when scientists from the two countries meet again in January in New Orleans , the Japanese will present at least three more drugs for human testing 
A Wellcome spokesman declined to comment on the discovery of the antibody in Japan . 
But Andrew Porter , a drug-industry analyst at Nikko Securities Co. in London , said if the product were to be successfully developed it would represent `` a potential threat to the long-term viability of Retrovir 
Chemical Waste Management Inc. , proposed global offering of 8,500,000 shares of common stock , of which seven million of the shares will be offered in the 
KnowledgeWare Inc. , initial offering of three million shares of its common stock , of which 1,657,736 shares will be sold by the company 
The United Kingdom carrier had planned the issue to help finance its $ 750 million purchase of a 15 % stake in UAL . 
But British Airways withdrew from the UAL labor-management buy-out plan last Friday 
British Airways said its shareholders accepted only 6.3 % of the convertible capital bonds 
In a statement , British Air Chairman Lord King said the company was `` obviously disappointed that the issue was not taken up 
A # 320 million -LRB- $ 508 million -RRB- British Airways PLC rights issue flopped badly -- the victim of recent market turbulence and the collapse of the buy-out bid for United Airlines ' parent , UAL Corp . 
In any case , he added , `` most institutions probably wo n't sell '' the bonds . 
Added another U.K. analyst : `` It gives them some cash in the back pocket for when they want to do something . '' 
But except for the embarrassment , British Air will emerge relatively unscathed from the flopped issue . 
The airline 's share price already is far below the 210 pence -LRB- $ 3.33 -RRB- level seen 
In late trading on London 's Stock Exchange yesterday , the shares were off three pence at 194 pence . 
And because British Air is issuing convertible bonds rather than ordinary shares , the share price wo n't be directly hurt by any surplus left with underwriters after they try to sell the issue in the open market 
And because British Air is issuing convertible bonds rather than ordinary shares , the share price wo n't be directly hurt by any surplus left with underwriters 
But except for the embarrassment , British Air will emerge relatively unscathed from the flopped issue . 
Six months ago , as some personnel specialists saw it , a perception that President Bush really cared about fair employment -- after what they said was eight years of Reagan-era neglect -- was prodding top management to raise hiring goals for females , blacks and other minorities 
The perception lingers , says an official at a major industrial company . 
The recruiting `` has n't materialized , '' asserts Jeffrey Christian , who runs a search agency . 
Samuel Hall , Howard University 's placement director , also does n't see it . 
Recruiter Donald Clark does note an increase in searches for minority candidates . 
Many companies have set up machinery to assure workers a fair shake . 
Unocal Corp. 's top management sets guidelines 
At Chemfix Technology Inc. , each supervisor 's recommendation must be approved by the next boss up the line 
JAPANESE COMPANIES fare best in 
University of Michigan researchers find the companies earn more and win a bigger market share 
The researchers say many Japanese companies err in the U.S. by adopting the American practice of hiring managers on the `` open market . '' 
The researchers say many Japanese companies err in the U.S. by adopting the American practice of hiring managers on the `` open market . '' 
Americans stay longer with Japanese firms than American companies . 
`` I 've been recruiting every single day 
She was the only staff physician available to treat AIDS patients last summer 
FEAR OF AIDS hinders hiring at few hospitals . 
Parkland Memorial Hospital in Dallas says it has n't had any problem recruiting 
Parkland Memorial Hospital in Dallas says it has n't had any problem recruiting , even after a nurse contracted the virus 
The Association of Outplacement Consulting Firms says the industry 's volume has soared tenfold since 1980 , to $ 350 million a year ... . 
Election analysts acknowledge that a `` Red-Green '' coalition of Social Democrats and Greens could edge out Chancellor Kohl 's coalition in the December 1990 national election 
Under current law , such suspects are immune from prosecution for acts committed 
`` If we 're not careful we could become known as a haven for war criminals 
Although Italy 's investigation of whether Olivetti had violated Western export-control rules had previously been made known , this marked the first time the unit and product were named 
Italy 's Foreign Ministry said it is investigating exports to the Soviet Union by an Ing . C. Olivetti & Co. subsidiary called OCN-PPL that makes numerically controlled machine tools . 
The U.S. is worried about the convertibility of Olivetti 's machine tools to military use . 
Conservationists say that drift-net fishing threatens to wipe out much of the world 's tuna stocks in a few years . 
About 8,000 National Union of Mineworkers members resumed their strike against De Beers Consolidated Mines 
A De Beers spokesman said yesterday the company had offered to increase the minimum wage by 18 % 
Before the two parties resumed talks last week , De Beers offered 17 % and the union wanted 37.6 % 
Before the two parties resumed talks last week , De Beers offered 17 % 
Since the first fraud was discovered in July 1986 at an office of the People 's Bank of China in Shenzhen , 15 major cases have been found 
The number of computers has mushroomed in recent years , with 10,000 in use , as well as 30,000 miniature models . 
Besides money , criminals have also used computers to steal secrets and intelligence , the newspaper said 
Japanese tourists will be told to take care 
`` About one-third of the fatality increase is attributed to greater travel 
The report showed that deaths on urban interstate highways rose 7 % between 1986 and last year 
In states that raised the speed limit on rural interstates , the fatality rate rose about 18 % to 1.7 deaths per 100 million miles traveled between 1986 and 1988 . 
Public preference is important 
Public preference is important , So product names should match up 
As of June 30 , 1989 -- the day our past fiscal year came to a close -- only 4.1 % of the Bank 's portfolio was affected by arrears of over six months . 
The reality is that Bank loans have been linked to policy improvements for 40 years . 
Another of Mr. Roberts 's criticisms is that Bank lending has done more harm than good `` by implanting the wrong incentives and deflecting energy away from economic development . '' 
These are not the actions of a development agency wed to central planning and to the concentration of investment decisions in the hands of government , as Mr. Roberts alleges . 
Conasupo Director Ignacio Ovalle Fernandez said the agency will sell 589 midsized supermarkets and several food-production plants and warehouses beginning early next year . The agency will withdraw from the production of nine food products , maintaining production of the two most important ones , corn and milk . 
Private-sector leaders praised the Conasupo restructuring . 
The agency wo n't allow mushrooms that were canned or packed in brine at any Chinese plant to enter the 
On May 19 , the FDA began detaining Chinese mushrooms in 68-ounce cans 
A spokesman for the Chinese Embassy here said that the Beijing government has taken `` many effective measures '' to stop the mushroom contamination 
Through these investigations we do not focus on the street drug user 
Through these investigations we do not focus on the street drug user 
The FBI 's role is to complement the D.C. initiative through not only these major trafficking investigations 
The FBI 's role is to complement the D.C. initiative through not only these major trafficking investigations , but also by providing a full range of services through various task forces and our contacts with local police squads handling drug-related crimes . 
Under the new terms , New World will still pay $ 540 million for Ramada 's hotel business , subject to adjustment at closing 
Prime will still manage Ramada 's domestic franchise system 
Revised terms call for each Ramada common share to be exchanged for $ 1 in cash , subject to possible reduction , and one share of Aztar common stock . 
Bond prices took the high road 
Bond prices took the high road and stock prices took the low road 
The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 26.23 points to 2662.91 in sluggish trading . 
A sinking economy depresses corporate earnings 
A sinking economy depresses corporate earnings and thus stock prices 
A sinking economy depresses corporate earnings and thus stock prices , but it buoys bond prices 
Analysts say they think durable goods orders fell about 1 % , compared with a 3.9 % gain in August 
The stock market 's decline , coming after a record weekly gain of 119.88 points , surprised some investors . 
Overall , he said , the trend in stock prices will be down 
`` Corporate profits are going to decrease faster than interest rates will fall 
Hugh Johnson , chief investment officer at First Albany Corp. , agreed that a deteriorating economy is worrisome 
For each poll , the odds are 19 out of 20 that if pollsters had sought to survey every household in the U.S. using the same questionnaire , the findings would differ from these poll results by no more than 2 1\/2 percentage points in either direction 
For each poll , the odds are 19 out of 20 that if pollsters had sought to survey every household in the U.S. using the same questionnaire , the findings would differ from these poll results by no more than 2 1\/2 percentage points in either direction . The margin of error for subgroups -- for example , married women with children at home -- would be larger . 
You quote Robert Crandall , chairman of American 's parent , AMR Corp. , as having said that discount deals for big customers would be `` dumb 
You quote Robert Crandall , chairman of American 's parent , AMR Corp. , as having said that discount deals for big customers would be `` dumb '' because `` you will go to Detroit 
Even if Mr. Crandall is correct , he of all people must realize our society relies on competition to keep prices at a competitive level 
When I asked American Airlines for its side of the story for use in my MBA class , where I teach business ethics , it did not respond 
The Des Moines-based publisher said it created a new Custom Marketing Group that will offer advertisers special rates for combination packages in its magazines , such as Ladies Home Journal and Better Homes and Gardens . 
Bill Murphy , director of the new marketing unit , said Meredith is negotiating other large-scale packages with leading companies in several product categories 
`` They may get passed up later when other publishers get their acts together , but for now they are the quickest offering the most extensive plan 
`` They may get passed up later when other publishers get their acts together 
`` Five years ago , magazine publishers would simply bid on an advertiser 's big ad schedule for their magazine , '' said Mr. Murphy . 
Your Sept. 21 article `` It 's So Easy to Get Burned 
The economic loss , jobs lost , anguish , frustration and humiliation are beyond measure . 
Your article points out the traps people fall into 
Your article points out the traps people fall into , but when reviewing those traps one sees just about all of them could have been avoided 
An accountant did not review the seller 's books 
Their `` secret '' is that they gather a small group of advisers around them , listen to what they have to say , prepare a business plan 
The changes come 
A former executive agreed that the departures do n't reflect major problems , adding : `` If you see any company that grows as fast as Reebok did , it is going to have people coming and going 
Mr. Goldston , who had been president of Faberge Inc. 's Faberge U.S.A. division 
Magazine publishers are facing spiraling costs and a glut of new titles . 
At the American Magazine Conference here , publishers are plenty worried about the industry 's woes . 
At the American Magazine Conference here , publishers are plenty worried about the industry 's woes . 
New York-based Hearst Corp. this fall plans to publish its first issue of 9 Months , a magazine for expectant mothers , and has already launched American Home . 
Over the past four years , the number of consumer magazines has increased by an average of 80 magazines annually , according to Donald Kummerfeld , president of the Magazine Publishers of America . 
Though for some magazines categories a tough advertising climate persists , the industry in general is doing well compared with the newspaper industry 
Though some magazines are thriving , the magazine publishing industry remains a risky business 
Within the same nine months , News Corp. closed down In Fashion , a once-promising young woman 's fashion magazine , Drake Publications Inc. has folded the long-troubled Venture magazine 
Lang is cutting costs and will attempt to operate the magazine with only subscription revenue . Within the same nine months , News Corp. closed down In Fashion , a once-promising young woman 's fashion magazine , Drake Publications Inc. has folded the long-troubled Venture magazine , and Lang Communications has announced Ms. magazine , after 17 years , will no longer carry advertising as of January . 
Meanwhile , American Health Partners , publisher of American Health magazine , is deep in debt 
`` Magazines can no longer be considered institutions , '' said James Autry , president of Meredith Corp. 's magazine group . `` Publishers will find that some magazines have served their purpose and should die , '' he added . 
There are also indications that the number of magazine entrepreneurs , traditionally depended upon to break new ground with potentially risky start-ups , are dwindling . 
`` They could be old or new 
The price was n't disclosed 
Federal officials who had been probing the bank for months arranged a merger with European-American Bank & Trust , owned by six foreign banks , to avert the closedown . 
Massive withdrawals followed 
In June 1980 , Michele Sindona -- an Italian financier who in July 1972 had bought a 22 % block of Franklin 's stock from Loews Corp. , headed by Laurence A. Tisch -- was sentenced to 25 years in prison 
Sindona , the onetime Vatican financial adviser with reported links to the Mafia , died on March 22 , 1986 , at age 65 
It happened 
In a nondescript office building south of Los Angeles , human behavior is being monitored , dissected 
A squiggly line snakes across a video screen , gyrating erratically 
In another experiment , an elaborate chart with color codes reveals how people 's opinions were shaped 
It advised the National Football League in its largely successful defense of antitrust charges by the United States Football League . 
Recently , Litigation Sciences helped Pennzoil Co. win a $ 10.5 billion jury verdict against Texaco Inc . It advised the National Football League in its largely successful defense of antitrust charges by the United States Football League . And it helped win defense verdicts in product-liability suits involving scores of products , ranging from Firestone 500 tires to the anti-nausea drug Bendectin . 
Largely as a result , Litigation Sciences has more than doubled in size in the past two years . 
In real life , jurors may not always work that way 
He adds , `` The notion they try to sell is that juries do n't make decisions rationally . 
He adds , `` The notion they try to sell is that juries do n't make decisions rationally . 
I find it troubling . '' 
Litigation consulting is , as New York trial attorney Donald Zoeller puts it , `` highly manipulative . '' 
`` It 's gotten to the point where if the case is large enough , it 's almost malpractice not to use them 
`` The affluent people and the corporations can buy it , the poor radicals -LCB- in political cases -RCB- get it free 
`` The affluent people and the corporations can buy it , the poor radicals -LCB- in political cases -RCB- get it free , and everybody in between is at a disadvantage 
Sophisticated trial consulting grew , ironically , from the radical political movements of the 1960s and 1970s 
The researchers discovered that Episcopalians , Presbyterians , Methodists and fundamantalist Protestants were nearly always against the defendants ; the lawyers resolved to try to keep them off the jury . 
In that case , a group of left-leaning sociologists interviewed 252 registered voters around Harrisburg . The researchers discovered that Episcopalians , Presbyterians , Methodists and fundamantalist Protestants were nearly always against the defendants ; the lawyers resolved to try to keep them off the jury . The defense also learned that college-educated people were uncharacteristically conservative about the Vietnam War . A more blue-collar panel became a second aim . 
Ultimately , that carefully picked jury deadlocked with a 10-2 vote to acquit 
As the trial progressed , they were eager to know if the jury was keeping up with them 
The solution devised by the professor was to hire six people who would mirror the actual jury demographically , sit in on the trial and report their reactions to him . 
The solution devised by the professor was to hire six people who would mirror the actual jury demographically , sit in on the trial and report their reactions to him . 
The solution devised by the professor was to hire six people who would mirror the actual jury demographically , sit in on the trial and report their reactions to him . 
`` What you look for in a shadow jury is very much what you do 
`` It 's often wrong 
Changing the outcome of the trial is what really matters . 
Theoretically , jurors are supposed to weigh the evidence in a case logically and objectively . 
If it is a case in which the client seeks punitive damages , for example , depressed , underemployed people are far more likely to grant them 
-LRB- Since Litigation Sciences generally represents the defense , its job is usually to help the lawyers identify and remove such people from the jury 
For personal-injury cases , Litigation Sciences seeks defense jurors who believe that most people , including victims , get what they deserve . 
If a client needs prejudiced jurors , the firm will help find them 
As Mr. Vinson explains it , `` We do n't control the facts . 
Once a jury is selected , the consultants often continue to determine what the jurors ' attitudes are likely to be 
In one personal-injury case , a woman claimed she had been injured 
In one personal-injury case , a woman claimed she had been injured when she slipped in a pool 
Pre-trial polling helps the consultants develop a profile of the right type of juror . Once a jury is selected , the consultants often continue to determine what the jurors ' attitudes are likely to be and help shape the lawyers ' presentation accordingly . 
Studies show , the consultants say , that people absorb information better and remember it longer 
Supporters acknowledge that the process aims to manipulate 
`` They may not have been able to articulate it all 
Many lawyers maintain that all 's fair in the adversary system 
A few attorneys offer horror stories of jobs botched by consultants or of overpriced services -- as when one lawyer paid a consultant -LRB- not at Litigation Sciences -RRB- $ 70,000 to interview a jury after a big trial 
Some litigators scoff at the notion that a sociologist knows more than they do about what makes a jury tick . 
But most lawyers accept that the marketplace has spoken . 
And the question remains whether the jury system can maintain its integrity 
`` There 's no reason to believe that juries rule inappropriately , '' he says . 
`` But the last thing you want to do is manipulate the subconscious to make them think better . 
To hamper the work of litigation scientists , he suggests that courts sharply limit the number of jurors that lawyers can remove from the jury panel through so-called peremptory challenges -- exclusions that do n't require explanations . 
-LRB- Some courts release names and addresses 
Mr. Etzioni also suggests forbidding anyone from gathering background information about the jurors . 
`` The more extensive the voir dire , the easier you make it for that kind of research to be effective 
In the battle to supply desktop computers for researchers and design engineers , most of the attention is given to the biggest competitors : Sun Microsystems Inc. , Hewlett-Packard Co. and Digital Equipment Corp. , which make computers mainly aimed at a wide range of engineering and scientific needs . 
Though Silicon Graphics is much smaller than Digital , Hewlett and Sun , it has emerged in recent years as a feared adversary in this graphics portion of the workstation market 
Though Silicon Graphics is much smaller than Digital , Hewlett and Sun , it has emerged in recent years as a feared adversary in this graphics portion of the workstation market . 
A year ago , Silicon Graphics introduced a model priced at $ 15,000 -- almost as cheap as mainstream workstations that do n't offer special graphics features . 
Not to be outdone , George Bush wants CFCs banished altogether by the year 2000 , a goal endorsed at an 80-nation U.N. environmental meeting in Helsinki in the spring . 
But even though by some estimates it might cost the world as much as $ 100 billion between now and the year 2000 to convert to other coolants , foaming agents and solvents and to redesign equipment for these less efficient substitutes , the Montreal Protocol 's legions of supporters say it is worth it 
They insist that CFCs are damaging the earth 's stratospheric ozone layer , which screens out some of the sun 's ultraviolet rays . 
Hence , as they see it , if something is n't done earthlings will become ever more subject to sunburn and skin cancer 
`` In the kind of literature I read I come across countervailing opinions quite frequently . 
But the nature of the problem is such that many others feel it has to be addressed soon 
We ca n't afford to wait . '' 
Some atmospheric scientists think that even if CFCs were released into the atmosphere at an accelerating rate , the amount of ozone depletion would be only 10 % by the middle of the next century 
Some atmospheric scientists think that even if CFCs were released into the atmosphere at an accelerating rate , the amount of ozone depletion would be only 10 % by the middle of the next century . 
It is generally agreed that when CFCs rise from earth to stratosphere , the chlorine in them is capable of interfering with the process through which ultraviolet rays split oxygen molecules and form ozone 
It is generally agreed that when CFCs rise from earth to stratosphere , the chlorine in them is capable of interfering with the process through which ultraviolet rays split oxygen molecules and form ozone . 
But ozone creation is a very large-scale natural process 
The ozone layer is constantly in motion 
What scientists have known since the late 1970s is that there is a hole in the layer over Antarctica that expands or contracts from year to year . 
But it is at least worthy of some note that there are very few refrigerators in Antarctica . 
Another argument of the environmentalists is that if substitutes are available , why not use them 
Mr. Teagan cites a list of substitutes 
Mr. Teagan cites a list of substitutes but none , so far , match the nonflammable , nontoxic CFCs . 
Mr. Teagan cites a list of substitutes but none , so far , match the nonflammable , nontoxic CFCs . 
Mr. Teagan points out as well that if the equipment designed to get along without CFCs is less efficient than current devices , energy consumption will rise 
Mr. Teagan points out as well that if the equipment designed to get along without CFCs is less efficient than current devices , energy consumption will rise 
Folks in the Midwest who just suffered a mid-October snowstorm may wonder where the greenhouse was 
Folks in the Midwest who just suffered a mid-October snowstorm may wonder where the greenhouse was when they needed it 
One answer is that big companies are growing weary of fighting environmental movements 
One answer is that big companies are growing weary of fighting environmental movements and are trying instead to cash in on them 
Du Pont , as it happens , has a potential substitute for CFCs . 
University professors and consultants with scientific credentials saw a huge market for their services evaporate 
University professors and consultants with scientific credentials saw a huge market for their services evaporate when price decontrol destroyed the energy crisis 
University professors and consultants with scientific credentials saw a huge market for their services evaporate when price decontrol destroyed the energy crisis and thus the demand for `` alternative energy . '' They needed new crises to generate new grants and contracts . Environmental groups would soon go out of business were they not able to send out mailings describing the latest threat and asking for money to fight it . 
In other words , environmentalism has created a whole set of vested interests that fare better 
In other words , environmentalism has created a whole set of vested interests that fare better 
That tends to tilt the public debate toward `` solutions 
If they were really getting insurance against environmental disaster , the price would be cheap 
If they were really getting insurance against environmental disaster , the price would be cheap . 
But if there is no impending threat , it can get to be very expensive 
While results were mixed in many states , `` small business got by fairly well 
Five states -- Oregon , Rhode Island , New Hampshire , Iowa and Wisconsin -- passed bills to boost the minimum wage 
Iowa 's will be the second highest -- at $ 4.65 an hour in January 1992 
The Illinois Legislature narrowly passed a parental-leave bill , which Gov. James Thompson vetoed 
Similar proposals were defeated in at least 15 other states . 
`` It 's just a matter of time 
But small business , which generally detests government-mandated benefits , has taken note of the growing number of close votes . 
In Pennsylvania , small businesses are pushing for a voluntary alternative ; they favor a commission that would develop sample leave policies that employers could adopt . 
In San Francisco , small businesses are urging passage of a local initiative to build a new $ 95 million downtown baseball stadium ; they believe it will spur retail sales and hotel-restaurant business . 
Small businesses in suburban Chicago are discovering that an area-code switch Nov. 11 -- to 708 from the familiar 312 -- wo n't be without some costs 
Small businesses in suburban Chicago are discovering that an area-code switch Nov. 11 -- to 708 from the familiar 312 -- wo n't be without some costs as they alter stationery , among other things , and notify customers . 
But many owners plan to practice frugality -- crossing out the old code and writing in the new one 
Now some negotiated sales that meet a series of tests do n't have to be pre-registered . 
With some new rules , state officials say they made it easier -- and faster -- to sell new franchises whose terms stray from those in state-registered contracts . 
He argues California regulators historically have misinterpreted their law 
A new Maryland law frees store owners of liability 
About 400,000 commuters trying to find their way through the Bay area 's quake-torn transportation system wedged cheek-to-jowl into subways , sat in traffic jams on major freeways or waited forlornly for buses yesterday . 
City officials feared widespread gridlock on the first day that normal business operations were resumed following last Tuesday 's earthquake . 
But in spite of a wind-driven rainstorm , gridlock never materialized 
But in spite of a wind-driven rainstorm , gridlock never materialized , mainly because the Bay Area Rapid Transit subway system carried 50 % more passengers than normal . 
Moreover , the two main bridges still connecting San Francisco with the East Bay did n't charge tolls , allowing traffic to zip through without stopping . 
Officials also suspect that traffic benefited from steps by major employers to get workers to come in at odd hours 
Storm flooding caused back-ups on the freeway 
Storm flooding caused back-ups on the freeway , and many commuters had to find rides to BART 's stations 
About 400,000 commuters trying to find their way through the Bay area 's quake-torn transportation system wedged cheek-to-jowl into subways , sat in traffic jams on major freeways or waited forlornly for buses yesterday . 
But while traffic was heavy early in the commute over the Golden Gate , by 8 a.m. it already had thinned out 
I think a lot of people got scared and stayed home . '' 
At Pacific Telesis Group , flextime is left up to individual working groups 
Some individuals went to some lengths on their own to avoid the anticipated gridlock . One senior vice president at Bechtel said he got up at 3 a.m. to drive into San Francisco from the East Bay . 
Although one transportation official said drivers who did n't use car pools were committing `` an anti-social act , '' about two-thirds of the motorists crossing the Golden Gate were alone , compared with the normal 70 % rate . And some commuters , relieved by the absence of gridlock , were planning to return to their old ways . 
Although one transportation official said drivers who did n't use car pools were committing `` an anti-social act , '' about two-thirds of the motorists crossing the Golden Gate were alone , compared with the normal 70 % rate . 
Playing black in the first game , the human champion maneuvered Deep Thought , known for its attacking prowess , into a totally passive position . 
Playing black in the first game , the human champion maneuvered Deep Thought , known for its attacking prowess , into a totally passive position . Then he unleashed his own , unstoppable , attack . 
Though almost everybody at the playing site had been looking for the 26-year-old Soviet to beat the Pennsylvania-based computer , he gave the machine a far worse drubbing than many expected 
Though almost everybody at the playing site had been looking for the 26-year-old Soviet to beat the Pennsylvania-based computer , he gave the machine a far worse drubbing than many expected . 
And when Mr. Kasparov strode into the playing hall , he called the outcome 
As if he were Iron Mike , about to enter the ring with a 98-pound weakling , he declared : `` I 'll be able to beat any computer for the next five years 
Its chief builder , Taiwan-born Feng-hsiung Hsu , nicknamed his brainchild `` the Weasel '' for its tactical flair at wriggling out of horrible positions . 
D.T. also has a prodigious and flawless memory , is utterly fearless , and could n't be distracted by the sexy nude sculptures spread around the playing hall , in the New York Academy of Art . 
They conceded that the odds favored Mr. Kasparov 
They conceded that the odds favored Mr. Kasparov , but they put their hope in D.T. 's recently enhanced capacity for examining positions -- up to a million per second , from 720,000 . 
This became apparent 
No human can examine millions of moves 
After eight moves by each side , the board was the same as in a game in which Nigel Short of Great Britain fought the champion to a draw in 1980 . 
But the computer did n't play Mr. Short 's ninth move , a key pawn thrust 
Instead of castling , a standard measure to safeguard the king , D.T. made a second-rate rook maneuver at move 13 
Bishops usually are worth slightly more than knights 
Bishops usually are worth slightly more than knights , but in this case Mr. Kasparov was left with a very dangerous knight 
Bishops usually are worth slightly more than knights , but in this case Mr. Kasparov was left with a very dangerous knight and D.T. 's surviving bishop was reduced to passivity . 
When most spectators thought its position hopeless , the computer thought it was only , in effect , one-half of a pawn down 
Such evaluations met with derision , and kept the machine from resigning 
While D.T. shuffled its king back and forth in a defensive crouch , Mr. Kasparov maneuvered the knight to a dominant outpost 
While D.T. shuffled its king back and forth in a defensive crouch , Mr. Kasparov maneuvered the knight to a dominant outpost . 
This left the computer with a broader range of plausible replies 
As early as move six , Mr. Kasparov deviated from a well-known sequence of moves , developing a knight instead of making a standard bishop attack against the computer 's advanced knight . This left the computer with a broader range of plausible replies -- and it immediately blundered by moving a queenside pawn , to the neglect of kingside development . 
In such positions , he explained , `` you have to create something new 
Greedily , it grabbed a pawn , at the cost of facing a brutal attack . 
And when a defensive move was called for , D.T. passed up an obvious pawn move and instead exposed its queen to immediate tactical threats 
And when a defensive move was called for , D.T. passed up an obvious pawn move 
And when a defensive move was called for , D.T. passed up an obvious pawn move and instead exposed its queen to immediate tactical threats . 
Mr. Kasparov 's continuation was slower 
In a hopeless position , the computer resigned rather than make its 37th move . 
Undeterred , D.T. 's handlers vowed to press on . 
Reaching for that extra bit of yield can be a big mistake 
Yields on five-year CDs at major banks were averaging about 7.45 % 
The CD seemed like a great deal . 
The problem is that the CD he bought for a retirement plan was n't a plain vanilla CD . 
Because the CD had an effective yield of 13.4 % when it was issued in 1984 , and interest rates in general had declined sharply since then , part of the price Dr. Blumenfeld paid was a premium -- an additional amount on top of the CD 's base value plus accrued interest that represented the CD 's increased market value 
Because the CD had an effective yield of 13.4 % 
Because the CD had an effective yield of 13.4 % when it was issued in 1984 
Now the thrift that issued the CD is insolvent 
The tip-off came 
Several phone calls and a visit to his broker 's office later , the dentist found out that the $ 9,000 drop represented the current value of the premium he paid 
Several phone calls and a visit to his broker 's office later , the dentist found out that the $ 9,000 drop represented the current value of the premium he paid when he bought the CD 
He says that he knew he was getting a zero-coupon CD 
He says that he knew he was getting a zero-coupon CD and that he had previously invested in TIGRs -LRB- Treasury Income Growth Receipts -RRB- , a type of zero-coupon Treasury security sold by Merrill Lynch . 
But he says he did n't understand he was buying the CD on the secondary market 
The fact sheet , dated April 1986 , says on page three : `` If the price paid for a CD purchased in the secondary market ... is higher than the accreted value in the case of zero-coupon CDs , the difference ... is not insured 
Computations involving zero-coupon CDs are more complicated 
Those officials say there was full disclosure of the risks in a `` fact sheet '' sent to all CD investors with their confirmation of sale . 
Nevertheless , Merrill Lynch has agreed that if the thrift that issued Dr. Blumenfeld 's CD , Peoples Heritage Federal Savings & Loan Association in Salina , Kan. , is liquidated and the CD terminated , the brokerage firm would cover the premium Dr. Blumenfeld paid 
Nevertheless , Merrill Lynch has agreed that if the thrift that issued Dr. Blumenfeld 's CD , Peoples Heritage Federal Savings & Loan Association in Salina , Kan. , is liquidated 
Merrill Lynch says it 's impossible to estimate how many investors are in Dr. Blumenfeld 's situation 
Zero-coupon CDs are only a small portion of the $ 1 trillion-plus in CDs outstanding 
Zero-coupon CDs are only a small portion of the $ 1 trillion-plus in CDs outstanding , and those purchased on the secondary market are an even smaller part of the total . 
Because of the tax consequences of zero-coupon investments -- income tax is payable in the year interest is accrued 
Most zero-coupon CDs are in maturities of six to nine years 
Now the thrift that issued the CD is insolvent , and Dr. Blumenfeld has learned to his surprise that the premium is n't insured under federal deposit insurance . 
But investors who bought zero-coupon CDs in the secondary market are n't the only ones who may be surprised to learn the full amount of their investments is n't insured . 
People who paid a premium for standard CDs purchased on the secondary market could also find that those premiums are n't insured 
People who paid a premium for standard CDs purchased on the secondary market could also find that those premiums are n't insured if the institutions that issued the CDs failed . 
However , those premiums are usually far smaller than on zero-coupon CDs 
However , those premiums are usually far smaller than on zero-coupon CDs , and the simpler pricing structure of a standard CD makes it more apparent 
Whatever the case , a Merrill Lynch spokesman emphasizes , investors should n't have to worry about the uninsured premium issue 
Whatever the case , a Merrill Lynch spokesman emphasizes , investors should n't have to worry about the uninsured premium issue , unless the bank or thrift that issued the CD is closed 
Dr. Blumenfeld says he 's satisfied that his problem has been resolved . 
Americans are drinking less 
Americans are drinking less , but young professionals from Australia to West Germany are rushing to buy premium-brand American vodka , brandy and other spirits . 
With U.S. liquor consumption declining steadily , many American producers are stepping up their marketing efforts abroad . 
`` If you want to be a player , you have to be in America , Europe and the Far East 
The internationalization of the industry has been hastened by foreign companies ' acquisitions of many U.S. producers . 
In recent years , for example , Grand Metropolitan PLC of Britain acquired Heublein 
The internationalization of the industry has been hastened by foreign companies ' acquisitions of many U.S. producers . 
The internationalization of the industry has been hastened by foreign companies ' acquisitions of many U.S. producers . 
While premium-brand spirits like Smirnoff vodka and Jack Daniel 's whiskey are riding high in the U.S. , domestic spirits consumption fell 15 % to 141.1 million cases in 1988 from 166 million cases in 1979 
U.S. brandy exports more than doubled last year to 360,000 proof gallons , a standard industry measure , according to Jobson Beverage Alcohol Group , an industry association . Exports of rum surged 54 % to 814,000 proof gallons . Mexico is the biggest importer of both rum and brandy from the U.S. . Japan , the world 's third-largest liquor market after the U.S. and Britain , helped American companies in April when it lowered its tax on imported spirits and levied a tax on many domestic products . California wineries , benefiting from lowered trade barriers and federal marketing subsidies , are expanding aggressively into Japan , as well as Canada and Great Britain . In Japan , the wineries are promoting their products ' Pacific roots and courting restaurant and hotel chefs , whose recommendations carry weight . In Australia , Britain , Canada and Greece , Brown-Forman Corp. has increased its marketing of Southern Comfort Liqueur . Using cinema , television and print ads , the company pitches Southern Comfort as a grand old drink of the antebellum American South . 
While U.S. makers of vodka , rum and other spirits compete against powerhouses abroad , trade agreements prohibit any other country from making bourbon 
-LRB- All bourbon comes from Kentucky 
While U.S. makers of vodka , rum and other spirits compete against powerhouses abroad , trade agreements prohibit any other country from making bourbon . 
Moreover , just as vodka has acquired an upscale image in the U.S. , bourbon has become fashionable in many foreign countries , a uniquely American product tied to frontier folklore 
Bourbon makes up just 1 % of world-wide spirits consumption 
Some bourbon makers advertise abroad as they do at home . 
Capital Cities\/ABC Inc. 's net income rose 29 % on a modest 9 % increase in revenue in the third quarter , mainly on strong advertising demand at its ABC television network operation . 
Chairman Thomas S. Murphy cited Capital Cities ' nine daily newspapers in explaining most of the gain . 
`` I am convinced that a monetary policy for this country that would return interest rates to the historical level of 4 % or 5 % would have not only an immediate impact on housing starts , the housing stock , our industry in America , the refurbishing of our industrial system , it would help the Third World economies considerably 
Bush administration officials say inflation is under control . With economic growth slowing , they say they believe the Fed should ease credit even further . 
McDonald 's Corp. said third-quarter earnings rose 14 % on a hefty sales gain 
Systemwide sales , which include sales at franchisee as well as company-owned stores , totaled $ 4.59 billion compared with $ 4.2 billion . 
Since McDonald 's menu prices rose this year , the actual decline may have been more 
While franchisees were having a tough time holding sales , McDonald 's company-operated stores posted hefty gains for the nine months , with sales per company-operated unit rising $ 20,000 
One analyst noted that the company often has better store locations than do its franchisees 
Prudential-Bache Securities analyst Leslie Steppel said reduced labor costs helped boost margins 
Third-quarter sales in Europe were exceptionally strong 
Reflecting better growth prospects abroad , McDonald 's noted that as of Sept. 30 more stores were under construction overseas than a year ago 
`` The others will probably be delivered as well 
If the ships are n't delivered , however , it will likely have an effect on the company 's earnings as soon as the 1990 fiscal year 
`` There 's a 99 % chance that the Fantasy will be delivered close to schedule , '' said Caroline Levy , an analyst at Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc . 
If the ship fails to arrive , those per-share earnings estimates could be trimmed 15 cents or more 
Normally , a company pays a portion of the total cost of a ship 
Normally , a company pays a portion of the total cost of a ship as it reaches various stages of construction . 
Some analysts say this may give it the right to seize the ship 
According to reports from Finland , Waertsilae Marine , 19%-owned by conglomerate Oy Waertsilae , filed for bankruptcy yesterday 
The designer 's attorney , Molly Bartholow , said that Ms. Garratt was forced to start bankruptcy-law proceedings 
The quarter net was below analyst expectations 
Eaton does n't provide profit figures separately for each category 
Mr. Hardis said truck-fleet operators appear to be cautious about buying new trucks 
The truck sales slowdown reflects the general slowing in sales of consumer goods 
Between 1965 and 1985 , Polish waters fit for human consumption dropped from 33 % to 6 % of all surface waters 
Conference participants saw these effects as flowing directly from -LRB- a -RRB- Marxist devaluation of environmental resources , which are not produced by labor ; -LRB- b -RRB- planned economies ' inability to control pollution where enterprises are state-owned 
Conference participants saw these effects as flowing directly from -LRB- a -RRB- Marxist devaluation of environmental resources , which are not produced by labor ; -LRB- b -RRB- planned economies ' inability to control pollution where enterprises are state-owned and penalties are paid by the government 
They repeatedly noted that environmental progress could not be secured without true ownership , genuine competition based on market factors , and the risk of bankruptcy 
The solutions they formally proposed included lead\/sulfur taxes , conservation and recycling incentives , reforestation offsets , transferable pollution permits , an ecological bank to finance pollution-reduction credits , and debt-for-environment swaps . 
A revolution takes more than conference manifestos . 
The Russians are talking peace . The Palestinians are talking elections . 
Indeed , skepticism was amply captured by a joke told by Poles at the conference : `` The world must be coming to an end . The Russians are talking peace . The Palestinians are talking elections . And the Poles are engaged in commerce . '' 
But the implications of such a shift to market approaches go well beyond the fact that Poland is already working on nationwide emissions trades to reduce smelter pollution 
Market-based pollution control may consume some capital 
Market-based pollution control may consume some capital that would otherwise purchase state industries . 
Market-based pollution control may consume some capital that would otherwise purchase state industries . 
That means simple , clear rules that secure the first large blocks of reduction , deferring more complex issues such as risk . 
That 's 
While Polish data have been freely available since 1980 , it was no accident that participants urged the free flow of information 
While Polish data have been freely available since 1980 , it was no accident that participants urged the free flow of information . 
For once information flows , public participation follows and repression becomes difficult to reimpose 
For once information flows , public participation follows 
One participant prematurely declared that America has had a free market in goods but a planned economy for environmental protection 
His point : It will be increasingly difficult for the U.S. to cling to command-and-control measures 
At the moment , Poland resembles 19th-century Pittsburgh more than a modern industrial society -- with antiquated production , inadequate environmental management , and little ecological awareness . 
The drop in those and other technology stocks contributed to an 0.7 % slide by the Nasdaq composite index . 
Some traders said the sell-off of technology stocks on low volume reflected a lack of conviction by investors . 
Some of it was due to lower-than-expected earnings from leading companies , he said . 
Some of it was due to lower-than-expected earnings from leading companies , he said . 
Microsoft , which last week rose to a record , fell victim to profit-taking 
Among takeover stocks , Jefferson Smurfit jumped 1 1\/4 to 42 1\/2 
That would be good news for the OTC market 
Nellcor , a maker of electronic patient monitoring systems , was up 3\/4 to 16 7\/8 on 258,000 shares yesterday 
Nellcor , a maker of electronic patient monitoring systems , was up 3\/4 to 16 7\/8 on 258,000 shares yesterday , while retailing issue Office Club was unchanged at 10 3\/4 on 65,200 shares . BizMart , another retailing stock , was off 3\/8 to 8 1\/4 on nearly 80,000 shares . 
Payco American , a credit collection concern , jumped 1 3\/8 to 20 5\/8 on volume of 93,000 
Payco American , a credit collection concern , jumped 1 3\/8 to 20 5\/8 on volume of 93,000 , and Mail Boxes Etc. , a private postal services company , advanced 1\/2 to 23 1\/2 on volume of 64,000 . 
Amgen rose 2 1\/4 to 54 3\/4 on almost 800,000 shares 
It 's not that we do n't know how to 
It 's that we do n't want to . 
If I were to ask a sample of American parents , `` Do you wish the elementary schools to encourage creativity in your children ? '' the near-unanimous answer would be , `` Yes , of course 
If I were to ask a sample of American parents , `` Do you wish the elementary schools to encourage creativity in your children ? '' the near-unanimous answer would be , `` Yes , of course . '' 
Fortunately , these same parents do want their children to get a decent education as traditionally understood 
The reasons are complex 
It is nice for teachers to think they are engaged in `` personality development '' and even nicer to minimize those irksome tests with often disappointing results . 
It also provides teachers with a superior self-definition as a `` profession 
It is nice for teachers to think they are engaged in `` personality development '' and even nicer to minimize those irksome tests with often disappointing results . It also provides teachers with a superior self-definition as a `` profession , '' since they will have passed courses in educational psychology and educational philosophy . I myself took such courses in college , thinking I might end up a schoolteacher . They could all fairly be described as `` pap '' courses . 
I know many schoolteachers 
They may not be among the `` best and brightest '' of their generation -- there are very few such people , by definition . 
Yes , we all can remember one or two truly inspiring teachers from our school days . 
If he were brilliant , he probably would not be a family doctor in the first place 
If he is competent and conscientious , he serves us well 
It is silly libel on our teachers to think they would educate our children better 
It is the kind of libel the teachers ' unions do n't mind spreading , for their own narrow purposes . 
It is also the kind of libel politicians find useful 
It is the kind of libel the teachers ' unions do n't mind spreading , for their own narrow purposes . It is also the kind of libel politicians find useful , since it helps them strike a friendly posture on behalf of an important constituency . 
If there were such evidence , you can be sure you would have heard of it 
If we wish to be serious about American education , we know exactly what to do -- and , just as important , what not to do 
There are many successful schools scattered throughout this nation , some of them in the poorest of ghettos 
There are many successful schools scattered throughout this nation , some of them in the poorest of ghettos , and they are all sending us the same message . 
Conversely , there are the majority of unsuccessful schools 
We really do know all we need to know 
In this respect , it would be helpful 
They are inevitably inclined to echo the conventional pap 
They are inevitably inclined to echo the conventional pap , since this is the least controversial option that is open to them . 
We know that very early exposure to schooling improves performance in the first grade 
We know that very early exposure to schooling improves performance in the first grade 
If parents are dissatisfied with a school , they should have the option of switching to another 
New York is in the process of trying to disengage itself from a 20-year-old commitment to this system of school governance 
Decades of educational research tell us unequivocally that even smaller classes have zero effect on the academic performance of the pupils 
There is neither mystery nor paradox in the fact that as educational expenditures -LRB- in real terms -RRB- have increased sharply in the past quarter-of-a-century -- we now spend more per pupil than any other country in the world -- educational performance has declined 
-- Students should move up the educational ladder 
This means `` tracking , '' whose main purpose is less to permit the gifted youngsters to flourish 
This is a fact 
International Business Machines Corp. unveiled a broad strategy to tackle the biggest problem that manufacturers face 
The company unveiled more than 50 products , mostly software , that are designed to integrate the three areas of a manufacturing operation -- the plant floor , design operations and production planning . 
Manufacturers have already spent so heavily on automation that they are one of the computer industry 's leading revenue sources . 
International Business Machines Corp. unveiled a broad strategy to tackle the biggest problem that manufacturers face when computerizing their operations : Most machines ca n't talk to each other . 
IBM 's announcement , which was expected and will formally be made to customers today , also marks an attempt to gain credibility on the plant floor , where Digital Equipment Corp. has long dominated 
Consultants have said that it will take a while for all the pieces of the IBM strategy to fall into place 
He said he believes IBM 's decision to invest this sort of effort into a single industry showed that it was getting serious about understanding customers ' problems and was n't just selling technology . 
Rather than just send out marketing people to knock on customers ' doors , IBM is making several hundred of its own manufacturing people available to discuss specific needs . 
IBM can obviously bring its expertise to bear on problems related to computer manufacturing 
IBM can obviously bring its expertise to bear on problems related to computer manufacturing 
`` We may not have every manufacturing problem 
Japan 's Big Four securities firms posted first-half unconsolidated results that mirrored softer performance as a result of slower turnover on the Tokyo Stock Exchange during July and August . 
Figures for the period ended Sept. 30 for the four largest brokerage firms -- Nomura Securities Co. , Daiwa Securities Co. , Yamaichi Securities Co. and Nikko Securities -- also reflected a changeover to a fiscal year ending March 31 , replacing the 12-month term formerly finishing Sept. 30 . 
As a result , brokerage house officials said , appropriate comparisons from the same period a year earlier were unavailable . 
Total operating profit fell 3.1 % to 486.1 billion yen from 501.61 billion yen . 
Harken Energy Corp. of Dallas said it will drop its $ 11.75-a-share , or $ 190 million , offer for Tesoro Petroleum 
Harken , which made its offer in August , said it still is awaiting a response to its offer from Tesoro 's board . 
Harken , which owns about 800 retail gas stations , has said it is particularly interested in Tesoro 's refinery 
Harken , which owns about 800 retail gas stations , has said it is particularly interested in Tesoro 's refinery because it would fill a gap in its business . 
Francis D. John , 35-year-old president , will assume the additional job of chief executive officer . He succeeds Paul J. Montle , 42 , who will remain chairman . 
Eagle Clothes Inc. , which is operating under Chapter 11 of the federal Bankruptcy Code , said it reached an agreement with its creditors . 
Eagle also said it received a commitment for as much as $ 8 million in financing from Norfolk Capital Group Inc . 
Eagle 's management retired 
At the time , Eagle reached a new credit agreement with Bankers Trust and with Bank Leumi Trust Co. of New York for $ 8 million , and a new subordinated debt accord with First Century Partners and Biny management for $ 2 million . 
But Eagle said the financing was insufficient 
Under Chapter 11 , a company operates under protection from creditors ' lawsuits 
As thrifts sell assets to improve their capital-to-asset ratio , as required under the new law passed in August , they must also reduce liabilities , such as deposits 
As thrifts sell assets to improve their capital-to-asset ratio , as required under the new law passed in August 
As interest rates paid depositors were lowered , thrift withdrawals exceeded deposits by $ 5.1 billion , not including interest credited to accounts 
`` This suggests the bailout law is having a more dramatic effect than anyone would have imagined so soon . '' `` The downsizing of the thrift industry is well under way , '' said Bert Ely , an industry consultant in Alexandria , Va . 
Not including thrifts under government conservatorship , S&Ls reduced their assets by $ 10.1 billion from the previous month 
For the 264 insolvent thrifts under government management at the end of August , assets declined by $ 3.3 billion 
Deposits are n't expected to exceed withdrawals in the foreseeable future 
`` I think we are going to see deposit shrinkage continue 
Since the bureau 's estimates for the business sector provide the numerator for the productivity ratios calculated by the Department of Labor , underestimated growth rates artificially depress official productivity statistics 
If this thesis is correct , it has important implications for macroeconomic policies 
If this thesis is correct , it has important implications for macroeconomic policies : It may lower the sense of urgency behind efforts to enact tax incentives and other measures to increase the rate of growth in productivity and real GNP . 
In the early 1980s , I predicted a significant acceleration in productivity growth over the rest of the decade . 
There has indeed been more than a one percentage point improvement in productivity growth since 1981 . 
The evidence does not clearly support the view that the downward bias in output growth has become greater during the 1948-89 period 
The evidence does not clearly support the view that the downward bias in output growth has become greater during the 1948-89 period , but all I am claiming is that the growth trend is understated . 
Even if it is assumed that productivity rose no more than half as quickly in the rest of the nonbusiness sector , this Labor Department estimate indicates a downward bias in the real GNP estimates of 0.2 percentage point a year , on average 
Because finance and services contribute 10 % to final business product , missing these productivity improvements depresses the overall growth rate by 0.15 % a year 
The second source of error in growth statistics is the use of inappropriate deflators to adjust for price changes . The first of three major sources of error is the use of labor input estimates -LRB- mainly employment or hours -RRB- instead of output estimates for those sectors , such as governments , paid household services and private non-profit institutions , where there are difficulties in assembling output data . 
Finally , the official estimates understate growth 
In 1985 , a new price index for computers adjusted for changes in performance characteristics was introduced 
The second source of error in growth statistics is the use of inappropriate deflators to adjust for price changes . The first of three major sources of error is the use of labor input estimates -LRB- mainly employment or hours -RRB- instead of output estimates for those sectors , such as governments , paid household services and private non-profit institutions , where there are difficulties in assembling output data . Finally , the official estimates understate growth because they make inadequate allowance for improvements in quality of goods and services . 
In sum , the biases ennumerated above indicate a 0.7 percentage point understatement in growth of total real GNP . For the private domestic business economy , the bias was a bit over 0.5 percentage point . 
Carbide , like other companies with a heavy reliance on the so-called commodity end of the chemicals industry , was expected to post earnings sharply lower than in an exceptionally strong 1988 third quarter . 
`` It certainly was n't a disaster 
Prices for polyethylene , a common plastic and an important Carbide product , started to fall early this year ; the slide accelerated in the third quarter 
Prices for polyethylene , a common plastic and an important Carbide product , started to fall early this year ; the slide accelerated in the third quarter as buyers continued to trim inventories . 
For the third quarter , operating profit from Carbide 's chemicals and plastics business fell to $ 238 million from $ 352 million a year ago 
For the third quarter , operating profit from Carbide 's chemicals and plastics business fell to $ 238 million from $ 352 million a year ago , before accounting for taxes and interest expense . 
Propylene glycols are used in making personal-care products such as shampoo 
At least 10 states are resisting Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. 's nationwide effort to settle its legal troubles 
At least 10 states are resisting Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. 's nationwide effort to settle its legal troubles 
Up to now , Drexel has made a rapid-fire series of settlements with 25 states and the commonwealth of Puerto Rico . 
Ohio , the District of Columbia , Tennessee and Illinois have been less resistant to Drexel than the other six states 
Drexel says it does n't expect any of its state brokerage licenses will be revoked 
Drexel says it does n't expect any of its state brokerage licenses will be revoked , and even if some are , its securities business would n't be directly hurt 
Drexel says it does n't expect any of its state brokerage licenses will be revoked , and even if some are , its securities business would n't be directly hurt . It already has sold its retail , or individual-investor , brokerage network ; securities firms do n't need brokerage licenses for non-retail activities such as investment banking . 
Still , if nothing else , a revoked brokerage license could be a burden 
Still , if nothing else , a revoked brokerage license could be a burden 
Securities regulators praise Drexel for its energetic effort , led by government-approved general counsel Saul S. Cohen , to settle its legal problems with the states . 
The question , she said , is whether Drexel should be allowed to pay and move on 
The question , she said , is whether Drexel should be allowed to pay and move on , or `` whether you should -LRB- simply -RRB- revoke the license 
While Ms. Bryant 's state went ahead and accepted Drexel 's settlement offer of $ 25,000 , she said : `` I do n't have any argument with those who came to different conclusions 
While Ms. Bryant 's state went ahead and accepted Drexel 's settlement offer of $ 25,000 , she said : `` I do n't have any argument with those who came to different conclusions . I can see both sides . '' 
Similarly , Alfred Rubega , New Hampshire 's director of securities regulation , said his state had n't received any complaints about Drexel 
Similarly , Alfred Rubega , New Hampshire 's director of securities regulation , said his state had n't received any complaints about Drexel , so it really could n't press the issue . 
Mr. Cohen said more than $ 2.8 million has been paid to 26 states 
There are , according to several securities commissioners , at least 16 states that are either close to settlements with Drexel 
Drexel 's proposed state fines have been based on a state 's population and on the size of Drexel 's business in the state . 
The state is n't ruling out revoking Drexel 's brokerage license . 
State officials wo n't describe their position in detail 
Neither state has settled 
Neither state has settled , and officials in the two states wo n't discuss their reasons for not doing so . 
But Drexel has made it clear it could mount a significant legal battle in each state 
Ms. Bryant , the head of the state securities group , said Drexel has done a better job of settling with the states than E.F. Hutton did after its guilty plea to a massive check-kiting scheme several years ago . 
`` We need to have somebody worried 
Time Warner Inc. reported a third-quarter net loss of $ 176 million , or $ 2.88 cents a share , reflecting acquisition costs for a 59.3 % stake in Warner Communications Inc. and the purchase method of accounting for the transaction . 
`` What really matters is the operating income of the divisions : I look at these numbers 
`` What really matters is the operating income of the divisions : I look at these numbers and I say , these businesses are doing well , '' said Mark Manson , a vice president of Donaldson , Lufkin & Jenrette Securities Corp . 
`` For example , Warner made more than $ 100 million from filmed entertainment in three months . 
Warner also had a gain of more than 13 % from records and music publishing 
`` Batman '' alone has racked up more than $ 247 million in box-office receipts to date , making it Warner Bros . ' largest grossing film ever . 
Time Warner 's operating earnings got a boost from Warner 's record box-office results . 
Time Warner said its cable division turned in a 77 % increase in operating cash flow , to $ 166 million from $ 94 million , reflecting higher per-subscriber revenue . 
Time Warner said its cable division turned in a 77 % increase in operating cash flow , to $ 166 million from $ 94 million , reflecting higher per-subscriber revenue . 
The programming division saw a decline in operating cash flow 
The programming division saw a decline in operating cash flow because the year-ago quarter included a $ 12 million dividend from Turner Broadcasting System 
The programming division saw a decline in operating cash flow 
In New York Stock Exchange composite trading , Time Warner closed at $ 138.625 a share , up $ 1.875 
An administration official confirmed last week that Mr. Simmons , the chairman of Valley National Bank in Phoenix , is the Republican appointee 
Mr. Simmons declined to comment 
Both banks have been battered , as have other Arizona banks , by falling real estate prices . 
`` We believe that there are numerous other candidates more qualified for this important position 
`` We believe that there are numerous other candidates more qualified for this important position and we encourage you to give them your thorough consideration 
Some House Democrats are trying to head off an appointment by President Bush to the board that oversees the savings-and-loan bailout , contending that the prospective nominee is the head of troubled banks himself . 
He was co-chairman of Mr. Bush 's Arizona campaign committee in last year 's election 
The two met more than 30 years ago , when Mr. Simmons worked for Commercial Bank & Trust Co. of Midland , Texas , where Mr. Bush was an organizing director . 
Randolph W. McElroy , a vice chairman of this bank-holding company , was named to the additional position of chairman of its principal unit , Sovran Bank . 
Moody 's Investors Service Inc. said it lowered the debt ratings of certain long-term debt held by this company . 
Investors may reap huge profits 
Investors may reap huge profits when premiums exceed claims 
Investors may reap huge profits when premiums exceed claims , but they are liable to their last pound or dollar in the event of a catastrophe . 
And catastrophes are getting ever more costly . 
`` If Lloyd 's wants # 70,000 out of me they will have to take everything I 've got 
`` If Lloyd 's wants # 70,000 out of me they will have to take everything I 've got 
`` If Lloyd 's wants # 70,000 out of me they will have to take everything I 've got 
`` The downside is very considerable 
If profits do n't improve , Mr. Whitten says he may quit the exchange 
Lloyd 's , once a pillar of the world insurance market , is being shaken to its very foundation . 
It virtually dictated how ships were to be built 
-LRB- Its stake is even smaller 
Though Lloyd 's pioneered such now-standard policies as worker 's compensation insurance , burglary insurance for homeowners and businesses , and bankers ' liability insurance , competitors now underwrite most of that business 
Even Lloyd 's specialty -- unusually risky ventures -- is being challenged . 
Only 10 years ago , for instance , Lloyd 's was the pre-eminent insurer of thoroughbred horses . 
Ronald Kirk , president , says Lloyd 's has suffered 
Ronald Kirk , president , says Lloyd 's has suffered because its structure does n't allow underwriters to deal directly with clients ; brokers are required intermediaries . 
`` This is a watershed time 
`` We have been a great market for inventing risks 
Three years ago , the exchange took up residence in a space-age tower of steel and glass -- evocative of the kind of modern architecture that Britain 's Prince Charles has denounced . 
`` The system , '' says Nicholas Samengo-Turner , a Lloyd 's broker who left the exchange in 1985 , `` is so ludicrously unprofessional it drives you mad . '' 
Many at Lloyd 's expect the San Francisco earthquake will cause the industry to boost rates even further . 
But it will be years 
That year , it posted record pretax profit of # 650 million , a gain it attributes to higher rates and fewer claims . 
But Mr. Lawrence says reported profit will be down in 1987 , 1988 and 1989 
Lloyd 's says the departures of names is n't likely to hurt its underwriting capacity , currently about # 11 billion . Mr. Lawrence says the drain of funds has been offset by an increase in investments by the remaining names . 
Meanwhile , the exchange has been trying to lower costs . 
Though Lloyd 's has talked for years about computerizing underwriting transactions , the effort has n't gotten very far 
But Lloyd 's is hampered in its efforts to overhaul operations by its reluctance to embrace modern technology . 
Lloyd 's presently sells only auto insurance directly to the public 
Some underwriters have been pressing for years to tap the low-margin business by selling some policies directly to consumers . 
But such changes must be cleared by four internal committees and dozens of underwriters , brokers and administrators 
The proposal to sell directly to the public remains mired in bureaucratic quicksand . 
In Japanese firms , the president usually is in charge of day-to-day operations 
While people within Daiwa , particularly internationalists , expected that Mr. Dozen , 52 , would eventually become Daiwa 's president , the speed of his promotion surprised many 
Mr. Dozen is taking over the reins of a securities company that does very well in its domestic market 
Several observers interpreted Mr. Dozen 's appointment as an attempt by Daiwa to make its international operations more profitable 
While they have moved to the fore in underwriting fixed-income securities in the Eurobond market -- mostly for Japanese firms -- they have been only marginally profitable , if at all , in the 
American institutional investors have never had a large appetite for Japanese equities . 
And while the Japanese have stepped up their purchases of U.S. shares in the past several months , they have shown themselves in the past to be fickle investors 
When he arrived in the U.S. in 1969 -- the start of an eight-year tour -- he tried selling Japanese yen-denominated bonds to U.S. investors 
`` He made desperate efforts , using the yellow pages from beginning to end , '' said Koji Yoneyama , president of Daiwa 's U.S. unit . 
In an interview a few months ago , he recalled how after some training at Salomon Brothers Inc. , he successfully bid for the opportunity to sell portions of 20 U.S. corporate bond issues 
In an interview a few months ago , he recalled how after some training at Salomon Brothers Inc. , he successfully bid for the opportunity to sell portions of 20 U.S. corporate bond issues . 
Mr. Dozen even related the indignity suffered 
Upon returning to New York , `` Exhausted , I got into a taxicab 
Like many young recruits in Japanese securities firms , he began his career peddling stock to individual investors . 
`` He was constantly picking up new things to fill out his experience ; he is very well-balanced , '' said Takuro Isoda , chairman of Daiwa 's U.S. unit in New York . 
Commission income from domestic stock and bond sales accounts form a large portion of Japanese securities companies ' earnings . 
If Mr. Dozen has a weakness , it may be his golf game 
Inco Ltd. posted a 35 % decline in third-quarter net income , a performance that was in line with analysts ' expectations . 
Some analysts said Inco , which had cash reserves of $ 272 million as of Sept. 30 , could still announce a special dividend in the next few months 
Inco said it plans to buy back as many as five million common shares over the next 12 months 
UAL Corp. 's board quashed any prospects for an immediate revival of a labor-management buy-out , saying United Airlines ' parent should remain independent for now . 
Just last week it suffered another major setback 
Among the first trades reported by the securities firm of Jefferies & Co. , which makes a market in UAL 
The rebound in UAL stock during regular trading hours Monday was its first daily gain 
Twelve of UAL 's outside directors met at a five-hour meeting yesterday in Chicago to consider an informal proposal from the buy-out group for a revised bid . 
That proposal , valued at between $ 225 and $ 240 a share , would have transferred majority ownership to employees 
The buy-out group had no firm financing for the plan . 
And , with no other offers on the table , the board apparently felt no pressure to act on it . 
The directors signaled , however , that they would be willing to consider future offers or take some other action to maximize shareholder value , saying they would continue to explore `` all strategic and financial alternatives . '' 
Mr. Wolf urged all employees to `` now turn their full attention '' to operating the airline . 
He also vowed to `` make every effort to nurture ... a constructive new relationship that has been forged with participating employee groups . '' 
The union said late last night that it is still committed to majority employee ownership 
The union said late last night that it is still committed to majority employee ownership and that the labor disputes that faced the company prior to the buy-out effort `` still need to be addressed . '' 
The machinists previously had shown themselves to be an ally to Mr. Wolf 
The machinists previously had shown themselves to be an ally to Mr. Wolf , but he lost much of his credibility with that group 
The machinists previously had shown themselves to be an ally to Mr. Wolf , but he lost much of his credibility with that group when he teamed up with the pilot union . 
Until the collapse of this bid , Mr. Wolf was regarded as one of the nation 's savviest airline executives after engineering turnarounds of Tiger International Inc. and Republic Airlines 
Until the collapse of this bid , Mr. Wolf was regarded as one of the nation 's savviest airline executives 
Until the collapse of this bid , Mr. Wolf was regarded as one of the nation 's savviest airline executives after engineering turnarounds of Tiger International Inc. and Republic Airlines . 
But he and his chief financial officer , John Pope , sowed some of the seeds for the deal 's failure by insisting banks accept low financing fees and interest rates 
The board 's actions leave takeover stock traders nursing some $ 700 million in losses and eager to respond to anyone who might make a new offer . 
Los Angeles investor Marvin Davis , whose $ 240-a-share offer for UAL in August triggered a bidding war , says he remains interested in the airline . 
Essentially , he ca n't make any hostile moves 
`` At this time , we elected not to get involved 
`` I would like to have had them , '' he said . 
Mr. Kane said he expects two or three major corporations to announce their participation in U.S. Memories 
Mr. Kane said he expects two or three major corporations to announce their participation in U.S. Memories soon after the group finishes a business plan , probably late this week . 
A Compaq Computer Corp. spokeswoman said that the company has n't made a decision yet 
David Boren , the Intelligence Committee chairman , is upset that someone leaked a letter to the committee from the Reagan administration suggesting that the U.S. would undertake to warn Panamanian thug Manuel Noriega 
If the CIA has become a protection service for Mr. Noriega , the American people ought to know 
Naturally , Senator Boren and his committee would like free rein to blame the executive branch 
Naturally , Senator Boren and his committee would like free rein to blame the executive branch while stamping `` top secret '' on their own complicity . 
But there 's no danger of exposing sources and methods in disclosing the debate running up and down Pennsylvania Avenue . 
And if Congress is going to assume authority to micromanage foreign policy , it 's going to have to take some of the responsibility too 
When they did , his commanders did n't have the initiative to do more than block a couple of roads 
The executive branch bears the first responsibility for timidity . 
But what kind of initiative can you expect given the climate set by Congress ? 
What part did U.S. warnings play in the major 's unwillingness to pull the trigger 
Mr. Noriega did n't suffer from any hesitation 
Maybe we need a CIA version of the Miranda warning : You have the right to conceal your coup intentions 
The CIA 's Deputy Director of Operations , Richard Stoltz , tried to smooth things over a few days later 
`` The interpretation '' of the executive order , Mr. Stoltz said , `` and the way in which the various committees have over time interpreted it , has led in my view to a proper caution on the part of operators , including me . '' 
In other words , Congress wo n't let the CIA do much of anything anymore 
The pay 's the same 
The pay 's the same , and the duty 's lighter . 
What kind of initiative should anyone expect from people out on the line who 've read all this and know what can happen 
There are of course good reasons the U.S. should n't get into the assassination business 
We 've heard California 's property-tax-cutting Proposition 13 blamed for a lot over the years 
Both have been raised at least 30 % in recent years 
There were no immediate reports of deaths 
The U.S. Coast Guard closed six miles of the Houston Ship Channel 
Broken water lines and gas leaks hindered firefighters ' efforts 
Nearby Pasadena , Texas , police reported that 104 people had been taken to area hospitals 
In late August , four contract workers were injured and one Phillips employee died after an explosion at a fuel supply line near the facility 's boiler house 
A federal judge in Manhattan has entered a judgment requiring a Chicago organized crime figure to pay the government $ 250,000 , representing alleged profits he gained from his involvement with the International Brotherhood of Teamsters . 
Exxon Corp. said its third-quarter earnings slipped 9 % 
Exxon Corp. said its third-quarter earnings slipped 9 % as profits from two of its three major businesses sagged . 
Phillips Petroleum Co. and Atlantic Richfield Co. also reported declines in quarterly profit 
Although Exxon spent heavily during the latest quarter to clean up the Alaskan shoreline blackened by its huge oil spill , those expenses as well as the cost of a continuing spill-related program are covered by $ 880 million in charges taken during the first half 
An Exxon official said that at this time the oil company does n't anticipate any additional charges to future earnings relating to the cleanup of oil spilled 
An Exxon official said that at this time the oil company does n't anticipate any additional charges to future earnings relating to the cleanup of oil spilled when one of its tankers rammed into an underwater reef . 
Exxon 's earnings from chemicals operations fell $ 90 million , to $ 254 million 
Although crude oil prices were significantly higher this year , they were n't strong enough to offset the declining profits in those business sectors at most oil companies 
The Ashland , Ky. , oil company reported a $ 38 million charge resulting from settlement of a 10-year dispute with the National Iranian Oil Co. over claims that Ashland did n't pay for Iranian crude it had received . 
Ashland also took a $ 25 million after-tax charge to cover anticipated costs to correct problems with boilers built by one of its subsidiaries . 
Refining and marketing earnings climbed to $ 33.3 million from $ 12.9 million 
Hess 's earnings were up despite a $ 30 million charge to cover the cost of maintaining operations 
There are about $ 100 million of 7 % term bonds due 2009 , priced to yield 7.30 % , which is the issue 's high yield . 
Federal National Mortgage Association -- $ 500 million of Remic mortgage securities being offered in 10 classes by Merrill Lynch Capital Markets . The offering , Series 1989-85 , is backed by Fannie Mae 9 % securities . 
Federal National Mortgage Association -- $ 500 million of Remic mortgage securities being offered in 10 classes by Merrill Lynch Capital Markets . Separately , a $ 400 million issue of Fannie Mae Remic mortgage securities is being offered in 15 classes by Bear , Stearns & Co . 
Mr. Downey said he is not going to change his style , which some critics said was flamboyant and others deemed offensive . 
`` But I 'm going to proceed in a more logical way . I 'm not going to do anything that is not acceptable in anyone 's home . 
Michael Eskridge , president of CNBC , said that although there will be a studio audience , viewers will no longer have to endure the shouting of `` Mort ! Mort ! Mort 
Mr. Downey said he is not going to change his style , which some critics said was flamboyant and others deemed offensive . 
Mr. Downey 's previous show , a one-hour shout fest , syndciated by MCA Inc. and produced by Quantum Media Inc. , was canceled in July 
In an economic slowdown , heavy debt loads reduce the flexibility of companies 
Analysts say that the selling of cyclical stocks yesterday will be followed by a sell-off in shares of companies with big debt loads on their balance sheets . 
`` Under this scrutiny , the first thing you do is sell your cyclical stocks 
Many money managers are bracing for a decline in stocks of companies with big debt loads on their balance sheets . 
McDonald 's has long-term debt equaling 91 % of shareholder equity currently 
Coca-Cola climbed 1 3\/8 to 72 1\/8 ; McDonald 's added 1 to 31 3\/8 
A&P fell 1 1\/4 to 57 5\/8 
Philip Morris slipped 1\/2 to 43 7\/8 
From January to early September , the index of stub stocks -- the tiny portion of equity that 's publicly traded following a recapitalization -- outperformed Standard & Poor 's 500-stock index by about 20 % . 
Union Carbide , whose third-quarter earnings dropped about 35 % from a year earlier and fell short of analysts ' expectations , declined 1\/2 to 24 1\/2 . 
Also , Exxon went down 3\/8 to 45 3\/4 
Also , Exxon went down 3\/8 to 45 3\/4 and Allied-Signal lost 7\/8 to 35 1\/8 
Growing pressures on the Arizona real-estate market are affecting the thrift ; Pinnacle West told Dow Jones Professional Investor Report it may consider filing for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection 
Merrill Lynch and Prudential-Bache Securities both lowered the stock 's investment rating immediately after the results were issued Friday , according to PIR 
Elsewhere in the chemicals sector , Dow Chemical fell 1 1\/4 to 97 1\/2 , Monsanto lost 1 7\/8 to 118 , B.F. Goodrich slipped 2 1\/4 to 44 3\/4 
After declining about 41 % last week , UAL advanced 9 7\/8 to 178 3\/8 on 1.1 million shares on anticipation of a revised takeover offer from a labor-management group for the parent company of United Airlines 
After declining about 41 % last week , UAL advanced 9 7\/8 to 178 3\/8 on 1.1 million shares on anticipation of a revised takeover offer from a labor-management group for the parent company of United Airlines . 
However , Delta Air Lines fell 1 1\/2 to 67 1\/2 
Ramada gained 7\/8 to 11 1\/4 
Paramount Communications rose 5\/8 to 58 3\/4 , Time Warner climbed 1 7\/8 to 138 5\/8 , Walt Disney advanced 3 1\/8 to 127 1\/2 , MCA rose 1 1\/8 to 65 5\/8 
He may have gone overboard in his pursuit of good discipline 
Mr. Fernandez does n't take control in New York until January 
Once they are in the building , they stay 
He was finally given leave 
Naturally , the principals ' union loves building tenure 
We suggest that Mr. Fernandez find an incompetent principal , toss him out of the building and let the forces of the status quo explain to the parents whatever it is they 're defending . 
But the no-more-nonsense superintendents are going to have to be judicious as well ; incompetent principals and administrators should go 
Getting a community of parents to care again about its schools is essential 
Getting a community of parents to care again about its schools is essential , but in Chicago the new boards will make mistakes 
The classroom itself operated on the periphery of this awful system , discipline collapsed 
Mr. Chips was a nice fellow 
Ingersoll Publications Co. agreed to buy the New Haven Register in a transaction valued at $ 275 million from Goodson Newspaper Group Inc . 
Under the terms of the accord , Ingersoll will pay about $ 255 million for the Register , a daily that Goodson bought for about $ 170 million in 1986 . Goodson will pay the additional $ 20 million in settlement of the management contract . 
The latter 's son , Ralph Ingersoll Jr. , took over the company and has been managing the Goodson properties and acting as an agent in the purchase of newspapers for Goodson . 
Mr. Goodson , in his own statement , was less upbeat , saying `` unfortunately over the past few years , it has become increasingly clear that Ralph and I have different agendas 
Just five months after Ogilvy Group was swallowed up in an unsolicited takeover , Kenneth Roman , Ogilvy 's chairman and chief executive officer , said he is leaving to take a top post at American Express Co 
American Express representatives apparently influenced the publication of unfavorable articles about Mr. Safra . 
Although Mr. Freeman is retiring , he will continue to work as a consultant for American Express on a project basis 
The agency , under his direction , bitterly fought a takeover attempt by WPP Group PLC of London 
The agency , under his direction , bitterly fought a takeover attempt by WPP Group PLC of London before succumbing in May . 
And although Mr. Roman and WPP 's chief executive , Martin Sorrell , have gone out of their way to be publicly supportive of each other , people close to Mr. Roman say he was unhappy giving up control of the company 
And although Mr. Roman and WPP 's chief executive , Martin Sorrell , have gone out of their way to be publicly supportive of each other , people close to Mr. Roman say he was unhappy giving up control of the company . 
Mr. Roman will be succeeded as the head of Ogilvy 's flagship ad agency , Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide , by Graham Phillips , 50 , who had been president of North American operations 
Mr. Roman will be succeeded as the head of Ogilvy 's flagship ad agency , Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide , by Graham Phillips , 50 , who had been president of North American operations and who , like Mr. Sorrell , is British . 
Mr. Roman also had overseen Ogilvy Group 's two other units , the Scali McCabe Sloves advertising agency and its research division 
Known as a traditional executive , he is very much in the conservative American Express mold . 
Moreover , after 26 years at Ogilvy he had honed a reputation for being squeaky-clean and a straight arrow -- which can only help American Express in the wake of the Safra incident . 
The abrupt management change sparked widespread speculation that Mr. Roman had been pushed out of Ogilvy 's top spot by Mr. Sorrell . 
Mr. Roman said American Express 's Mr. Robinson first approached him about the job in late September . 
Although it ultimately was n't offered to him , he will be on retainer to American Express as an adviser on international matters 
After talking on and off for the past four weeks , Mr. Roman said , he agreed to take the job 
After talking on and off for the past four weeks , Mr. Roman said , he agreed to take the job 
After talking on and off for the past four weeks , Mr. Roman said , he agreed to take the job because `` it 's the right time , it 's a terrific opportunity 
After talking on and off for the past four weeks , Mr. Roman said , he agreed to take the job because `` it 's the right time , it 's a terrific opportunity , and I think I leave the company in very strong hands . 
Industry executives say that although the two executives used to clash more frequently , the WPP takeover brought them closer together 
Would I have done all those things successively 
Mr. Roman will oversee American Express 's public relations and government affairs , among other things 
Mr. Roman will oversee American Express 's public relations and government affairs , among other things , but he wo n't be involved in its advertising , which is handled by the operating units . 
Mr. Roman 's departure is n't expected to have any enormous repercussions at Ogilvy . 
But some clients and analysts expressed concern that Mr. Phillips is n't as well-known to many clients . 
While the agency has done well in many parts of the world , its flagship New York office has had a dismal track record recently 
While the agency has done well in many parts of the world , its flagship New York office has had a dismal track record recently ; it has won few new accounts 
I think they need creative leadership 
`` Norm Berry was a creative inspiration at the company 
And some analysts questioned whether Mr. Phillips would have the skills Ogilvy needs to turn the agency around . 
Computer Sciences would n't disclose the proposed purchase price for Cleveland Consulting , which counsels companies on logistics and supply . 
The operator of cable-television networks said the new Turner Pictures unit will produce movies that will premiere on Turner Broadcasting 's Turner Network Television channel , or TNT 
The unit 's first two offerings are slated to be `` The Secret Life of Ian Fleming , '' a dramatization about the former British spy who wrote the James Bond novels , and `` Treasure Island , '' produced by Charlton Heston 
Ted Turner , Turner Broadcasting 's chairman , was named chairman of Turner Pictures 
In an interview , Mr. Hogan said the subsidiary 's primary mission will be to make movies for TNT and to distribute them internationally . 
`` When that occurs , and when the time is right , we 'll release the films in the 
`` When that occurs 
`` When that occurs , and when the time is right , we 'll release the films in the 
Turner has made several movies , docudramas and documentaries for its networks in recent years 
In July , Viacom Inc. formed Viacom Pictures to produce 12 low-budget movies a year that will premiere on Showtime network 
Paribas said that once it receives the go-ahead from French stock market authorities , it will offer to boost its Navigation Mixte stake to 66.7 % from the current 18.7 % 
The move would greatly boost Paribas 's stake in the insurance , transport and food businesses , where Navigation Mixte is strong . 
Paribas is Allianz 's main French bank 
Navigation Mixte said it would n't have any comment 
Long considered a potential takeover target , Navigation Mixte had hoped Allianz would help protect it from raiders . 
If the Paribas bid succeeds , it will be the second time in two months a big French investment banking group has snapped up an insurance group 
That complex bid was billed as France 's largest takeover ever -LRB- this one is slightly smaller -RRB- . 
Although Paribas denies it , analysts say the new bid in part simply reflects the continuing rivalry between France 's two largest investment banking groups 
Although Paribas denies it , analysts say the new bid in part simply reflects the continuing rivalry between France 's two largest investment banking groups . 
It also reflects the broader pressure on companies in Europe to keep up 
Although Paribas Chairman Michel Francois-Poncet would n't rule out eventually selling all of Navigation Mixte 's insurance operations to Allianz , he stressed the potential for the two groups instead to cooperate 
Although Paribas Chairman Michel Francois-Poncet would n't rule out eventually selling all of Navigation Mixte 's insurance operations to Allianz 
Although Paribas Chairman Michel Francois-Poncet would n't rule out eventually selling all of Navigation Mixte 's insurance operations to Allianz , he stressed the potential for the two groups instead to cooperate . 
Navigation Mixte has investments in a sugar company , a food and canning concern , a bakery and bus and trucking firms , among others . 
Paribas said it will bid 1,850 francs a share for Navigation Mixte shares that qualify for a full yearly dividend , and 1,800 francs for those created July 1 , which are eligible for partial dividends . 
Paribas shares closed down 30 francs at 610 francs 
Paribas said it would publish details of its bid 
Some financial sources said privately that Paribas blundered in failing to move sooner for the insurance and industrial group , bidding 
When notoriously independent-minded Navigation Mixte Chairman Marc Fournier rejected Paribas 's offer and began buying Paribas shares in retaliation , Mr. Francois-Poncet said , he felt obliged to bid for control 
France 's second-largest government-owned insurance company , Assurances Generales de France , has been building its own Navigation Mixte stake , currently thought to be between 8 % and 10 % . 
Analysts said they do n't think it is contemplating a takeover , however 
Crude oil futures prices fell further 
In trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange , the U.S. benchmark West Texas Intermediate crude fell 39 cents a barrel to $ 19.76 for December delivery . 
That level of production did n't take its toll on futures prices for the fourth quarter , when demand is traditionally strong . 
But because first-quarter demand is normally the weakest of the year , several market participants say , OPEC production will have to decline to keep prices from eroding further 
Crude oil futures prices fell further as analysts and traders said OPEC oil producers are n't putting the brakes on output ahead of the traditionally weak first quarter . 
Even though such facilities use a relatively small amount of crude , analysts say , now the facility wo n't need any , at a time of already high availability 
A company official said the explosions began 
Some petroleum futures traders say technical considerations now will help to put downward pressure on futures prices . 
For instance , one trader said that prices inevitably will go lower 
`` Our technician is a little bearish 
The New York market made its high for the day on the opening 
The New York market made its high for the day on the opening and when it dropped below the $ 1.23-a-pound level , selling picked up 
The New York market made its high for the day on the opening and when it dropped below the $ 1.23-a-pound level , selling picked up 
The New York market made its high for the day on the opening and when it dropped below the $ 1.23-a-pound level , selling picked up as previous buyers bailed out of their positions and aggressive short sellers -- anticipating further declines -- moved in . 
According to Bernard Savaiko , senior commodity analyst at PaineWebber , the only stability to the market came 
This activity produced small rallies 
`` The sell-off would probably have been worse 
Mr. Savaiko believes that if copper falls below the bottom of this range the next significant support level will be about $ 1.04 
Such sales are watched closely by platinum and palladium traders 
Mr. Savaiko theorized that the news on cold fusion did n't affect the market yesterday 
He said the traders are demanding a higher level of proof 
Some traders were thought to be waiting for the auto sales report , which will be released today . 
Prices closed mixed 
On the Chicago Board of Trade , soybeans for November delivery closed at $ 5.63 a bushel , down half a cent 
Supporting prices was the announcement late Friday of additional grain sales to the Soviet Union . 
But acting as a drag on prices was the improved harvest weather over the weekend and the prospect for continued fair weather this week over much of the Farm Belt . 
For the past week or so , traders have been expecting India to buy between 150,000 and 200,000 tons of refined sugar 
For the past week or so , traders have been expecting India to buy between 150,000 and 200,000 tons of refined sugar , and there have been expectations of a major purchase by Japan . 
Developing countries such as India , some analysts said , seem to have made it a point to stay away whenever sugar reached the top of its trading range , around 14.75 cents , and wait for prices to return to the bottom of the range , around 13.50 cents . 
At such prices , according to Mr. Savaiko , bargain hunting and short-covering -- buying back of contracts previously sold -- by speculators is n't uncommon . 
But Mr. Savaiko expects stepped-up producer selling at around the $ 1,040 to $ 1,050 level . 
He also noted that a strong sterling market yesterday might have helped cocoa in New York 
Ikegai-Goss , which has about 200 employees , is among the industry leaders in keyless inking technology , which reduces time and materials waste 
Such news is good for bonds 
Such news is good for bonds because economic weakness sometimes causes the Federal Reserve to lower interest rates in an effort to stimulate the economy and stave off a recession . 
`` When you get a big sell-off in equities , money starts to shift into bonds 
The Treasury 's benchmark 30-year bond ended about 1\/2 point higher , or up about $ 5 for each $ 1,000 face amount 
Municipals ended mixed 
In more evidence of the growing division between `` good '' and `` bad '' junk bonds , a $ 150 million issue by Imo Industries Inc. was snapped up by investors 
In the Treasury market , analysts expect bond prices to trade in narrow ranges this week 
`` On the negative side , the market will be affected by constant supply in all sectors of the market , '' said William M. Brachfeld , economist at Daiwa Securities America Inc . 
While some say the auction should proceed smoothly , others contend that yesterday 's sale of $ 2.58 billion of asset-backed securities by Ford Motor Credit Corp. may have siphoned some potential institutional buyers from the government 's note sale 
Rates are determined by the difference between the purchase price and face value . 
Thus , higher bidding narrows the investor 's return 
The percentage rates are calculated on a 360-day year 
The 13-week bills mature Jan. 25 , 1990 
`` It 's a segmented market 
`` It 's a segmented market , and if you have a good , strong credit , people have an appetite for it 
In light of the recent skittishness in the high-yield market , junk bond analysts and traders expect other high-yield deals to be sweetened or restructured 
The Federal National Mortgage Association offered $ 1.2 billion of Remic securities in three issues 
Traders said thrifts have stepped up their mortgage securities sales 
Government National Mortgage Association 9 % securities for November delivery were quoted late yesterday at 98 10\/32 , up 10\/32 
The Ginnie Mae 9 % issue was yielding 8.36 % to a 12-year average life assumption 
The refunding issue , which had been in the wings for two months , was one of the chief offerings overhanging the market and limiting price appreciation . 
An official with lead underwriter First Boston said orders for the San Antonio bonds were `` on the slow side . '' 
In addition , he noted , the issue would normally be the type purchased by property and casualty insurers 
Japanese government bonds ended lower 
The benchmark 7 % bond due October 1999 fell 0.20 point to 99.80 to yield 7.03 % 
British government bonds ended slightly higher in quiet trading 
The benchmark 11 3\/4 % Treasury bond due 2003\/2007 rose 1\/8 to 111 21\/32 to yield 10.11 % 
There have been three days of hot , wind-swept rain 
The little radio fizzes 
The sun is hot now 
The guide scoops into a pail and puts a frantically wiggling croaker on the hook . 
It comes real gentle 
Soon we have our limit of the shimmering fish stippled in rose-gold and black . 
The guide is young 
The guide is young and he knows this business 
Texas is big and beautiful 
Deer , wild hog , armadillos and alligators are the glamour quadrupeds 
`` Tivoli Motel , '' I read a sign in the usual pronunciation of the name 
The company , which supplies transmissions and other drive-train parts to auto makers , said about half the earnings drop came from the `` virtual collapse '' of the Venezuelan auto industry . 
Only the bravest spirits survive such roller coasters . 
Her bare breasts , her dancing , her voice , her beauty and , perhaps most famously , her derriere , were prominent attractions 
Baker had lots of them . 
Baker had lots of them . 
She adopted 12 of assorted races , naming them the Rainbow Tribe , and driving her husband first to despair 
She made money , but spent more . Friends pitched in . 
African art was in vogue 
To be exotic was to be patronized as well as prized 
`` She just wiggled her fanny 
Ms. Rose , who teaches literature at Wesleyan University , quickly proceeds to overemphasize , claiming that Baker 's dancing `` had uncovered a new region for desire 
It is easy to see why Baker , a free spirit who broke many of the restraints convention places on women , attracts Ms. Rose , the author of `` Parallel Lives , '' a wonderful study of Victorian marriage . 
Baker was 68 years old 
Baker was 68 years old when she died in Paris 
Baker was 68 years old when she died in Paris , two days after the sold-out opening of her newest show : a movie-like ending to what was a cinematic life . 
She was devoted to Charles de Gaulle 's cause , accepting great financial sacrifice and considerable risk to become first a spy 
The Free French wore black arm bands 
The Free French wore black arm bands , and when she sang `` J'ai deux amours '' they wept 
In her introduction , Ms. Rose writes that she feels she has much in common with Baker 
In her introduction , Ms. Rose writes that she feels she has much in common with Baker , but as `` Jazz Cleopatra '' goes on , it seems more rushed 
In her introduction , Ms. Rose writes that she feels she has much in common with Baker , but as `` Jazz Cleopatra '' goes on , it seems more rushed 
The text by Patrick O'Connor is a tough read , but the pictures make her magnetism clear and help explain why Ernest Hemingway called Baker `` The most sensational woman anybody ever saw . 
Manville , having rid itself of asbestos , now sells fiberglass , forest products , minerals and industrial goods . Heady stuff it 's not . 
But Manville 's ownership is unusual 
When and if the trust runs out of cash -- which seems increasingly likely -- it will need to convert its Manville stock to cash 
When and if the trust runs out of cash -- which seems increasingly likely -- it will need to convert its Manville stock to cash . 
But as an 80 % owner , if it tried to sell much of its stock in the market , it would likely depress the price of its shares 
But as an 80 % owner , if it tried to sell much of its stock in the market , it would likely depress the price of its shares . 
`` If they tried to sell , they 'd be chasing their own tail 
The trust is n't commenting on when it might need to liquefy its Manville stock . 
Some investors say there is a good chance that the trust will , instead , seek to convert the company 's shares to cash , in some sort of friendly restructuring that would n't involve just dumping stock on the market . 
The trust also will receive $ 75 million a year starting in 1991 on a bond it holds from Manville . 
-LRB- The average should drop over time 
As of June 30 , it had settled only about 15,000 of the 81,000 received claims from asbestos victims , for an average of $ 40,424 each . 
It does n't pay a dividend 
It does n't pay a dividend , and this trust needs income . 
Though the ink is barely dry on its new , post-bankruptcy law structure , Bill Bullock , Manville 's head of investor relations , says the company is continually pondering `` whether there is a better way to be structured 
Of course , one option would be for Manville to buy out the trust 's shares -- which would do little to benefit public stockholders . 
Of course , one option would be for Manville to buy out the trust 's shares -- which would do little to benefit public stockholders . But the trust , in most cases , is forbidden from seeking a buyer for only its shares before November 1993 . 
And both the trust and Manville are seeking to avoid the bad publicity that , in the asbestos era , tarred the Manville name . 
Even if there is no restructuring , Manville seems to be attractive long-term 
Analysts predict little or no near-term growth . 
`` It 's one of the best in the business , '' says Salomon Brothers analyst Stephen Dobi . 
And he says Manville has the financial flexibility to buy other companies at the best possible moment when other construction-related firms are hurting and selling cheap . 
Paul Kleinaitis , an analyst at Duff & Phelps , says , `` Even though they have borrowing power , they have been disciplined about acquisitions 
Paul Kleinaitis , an analyst at Duff & Phelps , says , `` Even though they have borrowing power , they have been disciplined about acquisitions . '' 
The FTC 's request was `` not unusual '' and Emerson will make a `` full and prompt '' response , according to a spokesman 
If approved , the sale is expected to close by year 's end 
As a result of the partial sale and spinoff , the $ 56 billion California Public Employees Retirement System would obtain two seats on the board of the real estate operation , according to officials of the fund , who described the plan . 
Itel bought a 17 % stake in Sante Fe Pacific last year 
Itel bought a 17 % stake in Sante Fe Pacific last year 
Pension funds rarely own as much as a 20 % stake in what is expected to be a publicly traded company . 
Pension funds rarely own as much as a 20 % stake in what is expected to be a publicly traded company . In addition , pension funds are rarely given seats on company boards and most often try to avoid them because of legal concerns . 
But fund officials said the Santa Fe Pacific Realty investment provides an opportunity to buy a stake in a large real estate portfolio heavily weighted with California properties . 
As a result of the partial sale and spinoff , the $ 56 billion California Public Employees Retirement System would obtain two seats on the board of the real estate operation , according to officials of the fund , who described the plan . 
In a statement late yesterday , Santa Fe Pacific 's chairman , Robert D. Krebs , said that Santa Fe Pacific Realty would repay more than $ 500 million in debt owed to the parent 
Santa Fe Pacific Realty owns 2.8 million acres of property , including 219 buildings with more than 11 million square feet of space . 
It also holds nearly 40,000 acres of raw land with development potential 
The California pension fund , which has $ 16 billion already invested in real estate and mortgages , could be a valuable funding source for that development 
The fund is the nation 's largest public employee fund 
Fund officials negotiated the final structure of the proposed deal with Santa Fe Pacific 
The first two GAF trials were watched closely on Wall Street 
The government 's credibility in the GAF case depended heavily on its star witness , Boyd L. Jefferies , the former Los Angeles brokerage chief who was implicated by former arbitrager Ivan Boesky 
The first two GAF trials were watched closely on Wall Street because they were considered to be important tests of the government 's ability to convince a jury of allegations stemming from its insider-trading investigations . 
The first GAF trial ended in a mistrial after four weeks 
After 93 hours of deliberation , the jurors in the second trial said they were hopelessly deadlocked 
The first GAF trial ended in a mistrial after four weeks when U.S. District Judge Mary Johnson Lowe found that a prosecutor improperly , but unintentionally , withheld a document . After 93 hours of deliberation , the jurors in the second trial said they were hopelessly deadlocked , and another mistrial was declared on March 22 . 
But GAF 's bellwether role was short-lived . 
Individuals familiar with the case said that throughout September , defense attorneys were talking with the government in an effort to prevent a trial 
Max Gitter , another GAF defense attorney , said yesterday , `` As we go in for the third time , Yogi Berra 's famous line is apt : ` It 's deja vu all over again 
The bankruptcy-court reorganization is being challenged before the Supreme Court by a dissident group of claimants 
The bankruptcy-court reorganization is being challenged before the Supreme Court by a dissident group of claimants because it places a cap on the total amount of money available to settle claims . 
Robins has been in proceedings under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code since August 1985 ; such proceedings give it protection from creditor lawsuits 
American Home Products Corp. wants to acquire Robins 
American Home Products Corp. wants to acquire Robins 
In a brief filed with the Supreme Court last week , Mr. Pretl criticizes the appeal for raising `` abstract '' and `` theoretical '' legal issues 
Criminal convictions under the federal Superfund law are rare 
Environmental lawyers say virtually all of the Superfund cases to date have involved civil penalties designed to insure cleanup of past polluting activities . 
Environmental lawyers say virtually all of the Superfund cases to date have involved civil penalties designed to insure cleanup of past polluting activities . 
Mr. Donohoo was convicted in Louisville late last month of violating Superfund by failing to report the release of asbestos into the environment from a building he was demolishing . 
The government sought a criminal penalty 
Once -LCB- asbestos -RCB- is released into the environment , it can lodge anywhere 
Wilmer Cutler 's brief argues that there is no mandatory appellate review of capital sentences 
P.J. Mode , Wilmer Cutler 's managing partner , says the trial team that represented Mr. Bundy was asked by the firm 's pro bono committee whether the new case posed a conflict 
P.J. Mode , Wilmer Cutler 's managing partner , says the trial team that represented Mr. Bundy was asked by the firm 's pro bono committee whether the new case posed a conflict and that no objections were raised . 
The coupling of the law firm and the Washington Legal Foundation is odd also 
The posters were sold for $ 1,300 to $ 6,000 
Henry Pitman , the assistant U.S. attorney handling the case , said about 1,000 customers were defrauded 
Attorneys for Messrs. Burke and Evans and Ms. Clarke said that although their clients admitted to making some misrepresentations in the sales , they had believed that the works were authorized by Mr. Dali 
When he was hired , Mr. Payne lauded Mr. Decker 's `` extraordinary ... skills '' and his `` outstanding reputation as one of the West 's brightest bankers 
Though the bank is n't performing as well as some of its competitors in the lucrative California market , its condition has improved since Mr. Decker took over 
Though the bank is n't performing as well as some of its competitors in the lucrative California market , its condition has improved 
For the six months ended June 30 , it earned $ 3.1 million , or 61 cents a share , compared with net income of $ 2.4 million , or 41 cents a share , a year earlier . 
Its stock also has risen lately 
Interstate banking is scheduled to begin in California in 1991 
Interstate banking is scheduled to begin in California in 1991 , and larger California banks , such as Wells Fargo & Co. , have been paying fat premiums to buy smaller banks to control markets 
For the full fiscal year , Varian posted a 13 % profit rise to $ 31.5 million , or $ 1.53 a share , up from $ 27.8 million , or $ 1.27 a share , last year . Sales for the year rose almost 15 % to $ 1.34 billion from $ 1.17 billion last year . A profit last year in both the quarter and year included a net gain of $ 9.6 million , or 44 cents a share , from the sale of a division . 
The financial-services firm , struggling since summer to avoid a bankruptcy-law filing 
It said it will exercise that right 
The financial-services firm , struggling since summer to avoid a bankruptcy-law filing after missing interest payments on about $ 1 billion of debt , will retain the right to regain the subsidiary . 
In a last-ditch effort to keep its sales force and customer base , Integrated Resources Inc. said it agreed in principle to transfer ownership of its broker-dealer subsidiary to two of its top executives . 
If Integrated regains Royal Alliance , the representatives will retain their 49 % ownership 
Mr. Krat indicated that completion of the transaction could take several weeks 
Mr. Krat indicated that completion of the transaction could take several weeks , and it was n't immediately clear what would happen to the broker-dealer subsidiary 
If Integrated regains the unit , it would receive any profit the unit reports 
If Integrated regains the unit , it would receive any profit the unit reports 
If the deal closes , the two officers will draw salaries from the independent operation , not from Integrated 
Integrated made its announcement 
The dollar weakened in indecisive trading 
Traders say that after a week of nervously tracking every development on Wall Street , the foreign-exchange market has settled back to catch its breath ahead of new U.S. economic data . 
Few market participants expect the U.S. unit to rally sharply on the news 
`` Everyone is waiting for GNP , '' says Walter Simon , an assistant treasurer with Bank Julius Baer & Co . 
Analysts predict a 3.5 % rise in the deflator 
They note that when an unexpectedly sharp widening in the U.S. trade gap in August was reported earlier this month , hopes for a sustained narrowing of the trade deficit were dashed and sentiment gripped the market that the U.S. economy was losing its momentum 
They note that when an unexpectedly sharp widening in the U.S. trade gap in August was reported earlier this month , hopes for a sustained narrowing of the trade deficit were dashed 
`` If we 're not headed for a recession , we 're certainly headed for a major slowdown 
While the market expects little reaction from news of U.S. durable goods orders , scheduled for release today , participants note that the figures will probably serve to reinforce this bearish sentiment 
U.S. durable goods orders are expected to show a decline of 1.2 % in September , according to economists . 
Traders , however , are quick to point out that while there is little enthusiasm for buying dollars , the U.S. unit has found a `` natural bottom '' at about 1.85 marks and 140 yen 
Liz Claiborne Inc. , New York , said its third-quarter net income jumped 62 % , citing continued strength in apparel sales and the start of shipments of its new product lines : a men 's fragrance , large-size women 's apparel and casual knitwear . 
Tokyo stocks closed firmer Monday , with the Nikkei index making its fifth consecutive daily gain . 
Stocks also rose in London 
The index moved above 35670 at midmorning , nearly reaching the record of 35689.98 set Sept. 28 . 
On Monday , traders noted that some investors took profits against the backdrop of the Nikkei 's fast-paced recovery following its plunge last Monday in reaction to the Oct. 13 drop in New York stock prices . 
Relatively stable foreign currency dealings Monday were viewed favorably by market players , traders said . 
Teijin was up 15 at 936 
Limited volume ahead of the September trade data showed the market is nervous 
Limited volume ahead of the September trade data showed the market is nervous 
Analysts ' expectations suggest a September current account deficit of # 1.6 billion -LRB- $ 2.54 billion -RRB- , compared with August 's # 2.0 billion deficit . 
Lucas Industries , a British automotive and aerospace concern , rose 13 pence to 614 pence 
Share prices on the Frankfurt stock exchange closed narrowly mixed in quiet dealings 
The DAX index eased 0.99 point to end at 1523.22 
Brokers said the declines early in the day were partly caused by losses of the ruling Christian-Democratic Union in communal elections in the state of Baden-Wuerttemberg . 
But there was little selling pressure 
The market is still 4 % short of its level before the plunge 
The market is still 4 % short of its level before the plunge , and analysts are n't sure how long it will take 
The market is still 4 % short of its level before the plunge , and analysts are n't sure how long it will take until the DAX has closed that gap . 
Banking stocks were the major gainers Monday amid hope that interest rates have peaked 
Auto shares were mixed 
Auto shares were mixed , as Daimler-Benz firmed 2 to 723 , Bayerische Motoren Werke lost the same amount to 554 
Enviropact Inc. said it entered into an agreement in principle to sell its pump and tank division and drilling division to GSX Chemical Services for $ 4 million . 
The Miami-based environmental engineering concern said GSX Chemical also will assume about $ 1.6 million in debt related to those divisions . 
A number of major banks have posted big losses 
Mr. Brooks declined to give his age 
Clairol , which makes hair and skin products , was a division of Bristol-Myers 
When fully operational , the Guadalajara factory will employ about 1,500 workers and have annual operating expenses of $ 5 million to $ 6 million 
AT&T already has a factory in Matamoros , Mexico , to make electrical devices . 
Although Cummins 's stock stumbled last month after the company projected a `` substantial '' third-period loss , the stock also fell $ 1.125 in composite New York Stock Exchange trading yesterday , to $ 51.75 
Although Cummins 's stock stumbled last month 
Although Cummins 's stock stumbled last month after the company projected a `` substantial '' third-period loss 
Neither suit lists specific dollar claims 
Litigation , if not settled out of court , could drag on for years 
The oil company claims that Alaskan officials prevented Exxon from spraying dispersant onto the almost 11 million gallons of oil dumped 
Exxon claims that use of dispersants , which break an oil slick into microscopic droplets , was a crucial part of its immediate-response plan 
Alaskan and Coast Guard officials say Exxon 's charges are n't relevant 
Use of dispersants was approved 
The package was termed excessive by the Bush administration 
The package was termed excessive by the Bush administration 
By a 26-7 margin , the committee scuttled the more expensive alternative 
By a 26-7 margin , the committee scuttled the more expensive alternative , and the debate forced a strained confrontation between Appropriations Committee Chairman Jamie Whitten -LRB- D. , Miss . -RRB- and his party 's largest state delegation in the House . 
`` We are the Golden State 
The measure is expected to come before the House today 
Given California 's size and political importance , the White House is eager to appear generous . 
A White House budget office analysis estimates that $ 500 million -- or half the level in the committee bill -- is needed for highway assistance to meet California 's needs 
`` Everybody appreciates that it is a national disaster 
`` I would hope very much that we would n't end up in a kind of situation where you have a bidding war 
Although this White House pressure was clearly a factor among committee Republicans , no single influence was greater than Mr. Whitten 
When Mr. Fazio offered the California-backed $ 3.84 billion plan , Mr. Whitten insisted that the full 14 pages be read aloud by the panel 's clerk 
On the chairman 's motion , the California package was subsequently reduced to less-binding report language 
On the chairman 's motion , the California package was subsequently reduced to less-binding report language , and even when this was accepted as such on a voice vote , Mr. Whitten pointedly opposed it 
Mr. Whitten 's package appears to accomplish this purpose 
The California Democrat appeared embarrassed by provisions inserted on behalf of owners of private beaches in the Virgin Islands 
It recently introduced a line for the home market . 
Amtech , which makes an automated process system that improves the yields of semiconductor manufacturers , said profit for the year ended Sept. 30 rose to more than $ 800,000 from $ 446,000 last year . 
In a foreign-policy address before the Soviet legislature , the foreign minister conceded that the radar station in Krasnoyarsk breached the superpower Anti-Ballistic Missile treaty and said it would be dismantled . 
Travelers crowded into subways , sat in traffic jams on major freeways or waited for buses in the rain 
As the death toll from last week 's temblor climbed to 61 , the condition of freeway survivor Buck Helm , who spent four days trapped under rubble , improved 
As the death toll from last week 's temblor climbed to 61 , the condition of freeway survivor Buck Helm , who spent four days trapped under rubble , improved , hospital officials said . 
A crowd estimated at 100,000 held a torch-lit march through Budapest 
About 200,000 East Germans marched in Leipzig 
About 200,000 East Germans marched in Leipzig and thousands more staged protests in three other cities in a fresh challenge to the Communist leadership to introduce democratic freedoms . 
The five astronauts returned to Earth about three hours early 
More than 100 people were injured 
The statement came 
Lebanon 's Gen. Aoun placed Christian military forces on alert in case of renewed fighting with Syrian-backed Moslems 
NATO defense ministers are expected to call for a reduction in nuclear forces in Europe 
Commonwealth leaders turned to issues ranging from drugs to the world economy 
Commonwealth leaders turned to issues ranging from drugs to the world economy after Zimbabwe 's President Mugabe called Thatcher 's views on South Africa `` despicable . '' 
Property Capital Trust said it dropped its plan to liquidate 
The California Student Aid Commission took the action Oct. 15 after a government audit cited National Technical Schools for having courses too short to be eligible for the educational loan program and having a student drop-out rate far in excess of federal standards 
Chairman Edward L. Hennessy Jr. said that a drop in sales of auto and truck parts contributed to lower earnings in the automotive unit . 
Congress tightened auto safety standards for gray-market imports 
Congress tightened auto safety standards for gray-market imports after U.S. auto dealers , including franchised foreign-car dealers , complained that they often were blamed 
Archive Corp. said it expects to report net income for its fiscal year ended Sept. 29 of a record $ 15 million , or $ 1.15 a share , up 43 % from $ 10.5 million , or 80 cents a share , for the prior year . 
Detrex Corp. said a reserve it is establishing to cover expected pollution cleanup costs at an Ohio plant reduced its third-quarter net income by $ 1.9 million . 
Remaining units will be sold to the underwriters , Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. and Kidder , Peabody & 
First Executive said the offering will raise about $ 299 million -- minus underwriting fees and other expenses -- that the company plans to use to write new life insurance and annuity business . 
UNITED AIR 'S PARENT quashed any prospects for an immediate revival of the labor-management buy-out , saying UAL should remain independent for now . 
Stock prices fell 
Stock prices fell and bonds rose 
Stock prices fell and bonds rose as worries mounted about the economy and the junk bond market . 
Thrifts continued to shed assets in August , mainly to comply with stiffer capital rules under the S&L bailout law . 
`` That means that if the offense deals with one part of the business , you do n't attempt to seize the whole business 
In general , the thrust of the department 's directive is to encourage prosecutors to limit pretrial asset seizures 
Sen. Alan Cranston trekked over to the House side of Capitol Hill a few days ago and volunteered his testimony to fellow Democrat Rep. Henry Gonzalez . 
`` When you reach a point where a policy-making body is trying to shape administrative decisions , then that 's a no-no in my book 
Unlike many lawmakers , Chairman Gonzalez says he considers intervening with regulators to be improper . 
`` Unless the questions are answered , I will keep on going 
Lawmakers often are reluctant to embarrass colleagues , even those of opposing political parties . 
Lawmakers often are reluctant to embarrass colleagues , even those of opposing political parties . 
But Chairman Gonzalez is a genuine maverick . 
Mr. Gonzalez is also a stickler for ethical standards who refuses to accept honorariums 
Early in his political career , as a city councilman in San Antonio , he walked out of a meeting 
As the principal regulator of the thrift industry , Mr. Wall delayed seizing Lincoln S&L for more than two years 
As the principal regulator of the thrift industry , Mr. Wall delayed seizing Lincoln S&L for more than two years after his staff told him that the California thrift was insolvent 
Rep. Gonzalez seems primed to lash out at Mr. Wall 
`` I think he is trying to improperly influence a witness 
`` I think he is trying to improperly influence a witness , and by God I 'm not going to tolerate it , '' he says . 
`` When I first got a glimpse at the witness list , I could n't believe that they were going to go ahead and do this 
`` When I first got a glimpse at the witness list , I could n't believe that they were going to go ahead and do this , '' says Michael Waldman , director of Congress Watch , a consumer group . `` There are some witnesses who will be forced to testify about their meetings with senators . '' 
And a Democratic aide to a Banking Committee member remarks , `` I too am astounded by it 
Mr. Keating lives in Phoenix 
`` He 's wise , he 's good 
Chairman Gonzalez expresses sympathy for Sen. Riegle , his counterpart as chairman of the Senate Banking Committee . 
Most importantly , the Senate traded away the Bush administration 's controversial plan to finance the bailout 
At the time , Mr. Gonzalez said several senators told him that they `` could get some roadblocks out of the way 
Mr. Keating raised $ 20,000 for Rep. Doug Barnard 's 1986 re-election campaign 
He recently voted `` present 
He recently voted `` present 
Even some House Banking Committee members could suffer from the fallout . 
But the chairman 's supporters have the upper hand 
A witness set to testify on Thursday was quoted in a news report over the weekend as saying Lincoln `` laundered '' campaign contributions illegally . 
`` I do n't know whether it was done properly or not 
`` I do n't know whether it was done properly or not , because I 'm not a lawyer , '' he said in a telephone interview yesterday . 
An inquiry into his handling of Lincoln S&L inevitably will drag in Sen. Cranston and the four others , Sens. Dennis DeConcini -LRB- D. , Ariz. -RRB- , John McCain -LRB- R. , Ariz. -RRB- , John Glenn -LRB- D. , Ohio -RRB- and Donald Riegle -LRB- D. , Mich . -RRB- . 
He has characterized the five senators ' roles as `` tantamount to an attempt to subvert the ... regulatory process 
He has characterized the five senators ' roles as `` tantamount to an attempt to subvert the ... regulatory process , '' and he is n't expected to back down 
He has characterized the five senators ' roles as `` tantamount to an attempt to subvert the ... regulatory process , '' and he is n't expected to back down even though the five senators have disputed his account of a 1987 meeting . 
Sen. Cranston , as he returned to the capital last week from a one-day trip to inspect earthquake damage in San Francisco , sighed to an aide : `` Well , back to Keatingland 
When Anne Volokh and her family immigrated to the U.S. 14 years ago , they started life in Los Angeles with only $ 400 
They 'd actually left the Soviet Union with $ 480 
Three months after she arrived in L.A. she spent $ 120 she did n't have for a hat 
-LRB- `` A turban , '' she specifies , `` though it was n't the time for that 14 years ago . 
Though Ms. Volokh is a small woman , she has an outsized personality and dramatic flair that seem perfectly suited to capitalism as it is practiced in Hollywood 
Certainly life for her has changed considerably since the days in Kiev , when she lived with her parents , her husband and her two sons in a 2 1\/2-room apartment in what she calls `` silent internal immigration , '' dreaming of escape . 
Certainly life for her has changed considerably since the days in Kiev , when she lived with her parents , her husband and her two sons in a 2 1\/2-room apartment in what she calls `` silent internal immigration , '' dreaming of escape . 
I used to wear hats in Russia 
`` If you are born to give parties , you give parties 
I like rather tea 
`` It 's supposed to be later 
She serves high Russian tea , at 5 p.m . 
She was interested 
`` She wants things to be exciting . 
She 'll think of an idea the editorial people think is impossible 
She was interested only if she could guide it editorially as well . `` Anne does n't believe in blandness , '' said Ms. Smith . `` She wants things to be exciting . And she has this inexhaustible energy . She 'll think of an idea the editorial people think is impossible , then she 'll have us make it work . '' 
`` I do n't trust people who do n't eat , '' said Ms. Volokh 
In her cookbook , which Macmillan is bringing out in soft cover this month -LRB- with the blini recipe revised 
`` I emigrated to wear better hats , do better parties , '' she said with a giggle . 
One can not imagine how you live 
Before granting Ms. Volokh 's parents a visa , the government required her mother to obtain permission from her first husband 
Their visa came in relatively short order 
Mr. Volokh soon found work in his field 
On the way to that goal , she received her first U.S. paycheck for proofreading a book of Polish poetry , attended secretarial school 
When her husband and son founded their computer company , Vesoft , she worked as business manager , bookkeeper and publicist 
`` It 's an extremely complex market 
Undeterred by such words of caution , corporate America is flocking to Moscow , lured by a huge untapped market and Mikhail Gorbachev 's attempt to overhaul the Soviet economy . 
But while U.S. interest may be big and growing , the difficulties that have stymied deals in the past show no sign of abating 
Changing legislation has opened the field to thousands of inexperienced Soviet players , many who promise more than they can deliver . 
And some foreign firms are finding that even when they manage to overcome such hurdles , their ventures now have to be endorsed by such unpredictable bodies as the Soviet parliament and the governments of the nation 's republics 
The plans have come under fire from Soviet environmentalists 
For political as well as economic reasons , U.S. companies are at the top of his priorities -- a point he underscored by spending two hours walking around the U.S. trade show last week . 
Talking to a small group of U.S. executives afterwards , Mr. Gorbachev appeared impatient for a big expansion in U.S.-Soviet trade , which now amounts to a meager $ 3 billion annually . 
Hundreds of people lined up every day at the Colgate-Palmolive Co. stand to receive a free tube of toothpaste , a commodity in chronically short supply here . 
Some U.S. products are filtering into the Soviet market under an emergency import program . 
Because the Soviet ruble is n't convertible into dollars , marks and other Western currencies , companies that hope to set up production facilities here must either export some of the goods to earn hard currency or find Soviet goods they can take in a counter-trade transaction 
Because the Soviet ruble is n't convertible into dollars , marks and other Western currencies , companies that hope to set up production facilities here must either export some of the goods to earn hard currency or find Soviet goods they can take in a counter-trade transaction . 
General Electric Co. was given an $ 89.6 million Navy contract for nuclear propulsion parts . 
The move will give Nuovo Banco a badly needed foreign presence , and make Credit Agricole the bank 's largest shareholder . 
Nuovo Banco will become Italy 's biggest private-sector bank 
Gemina , which owns 13.26 % of Nuovo Banco , abstained in the final vote on Credit Agricole 
Qintex Australia has n't disclosed its borrowings 
The sales are expected to raise more than 600 million Australian dollars -LRB- US$ 462.2 million -RRB- , Mr. Skase said . 
He said the move will `` significantly reduce administrative and operating costs 
The company 's latest moves were disclosed 
The company 's latest moves were disclosed after the Australian Stock Exchange suspended trading in shares of Qintex Australia and Qintex 
It said Qintex Entertainment owes Qintex Australia US$ 38.1 million in loans not secured by specific assets . 
Before its shares were suspended from trading , Qintex Australia plunged to 16 Australian cents -LRB- 12 U.S. cents -RRB- a share yesterday from 33 Australian cents Friday 
MGM\/UA has sued Qintex Australia for breach of contract and fraud over the collapsed acquisition agreement 
Shareholders ' funds as of July 31 were estimated at more than A$ 1 billion , Mr. Skase said , compared with A$ 725 million a year earlier . 
Mr. Skase said most of the money went to other parties for expenses such as rent and travel 
Non-executive directors of Qintex Australia , who must approve payments to the senior executives , balked at the amount . Two of the directors resigned , Mr. Skase said , so the payments have n't yet been approved . 
TWO COMPANIES plan to market a new chip with ceramic circuits that store data 
Today 's most widely used data-storing chips have `` volatile '' memories -- their data disappear 
Today 's most widely used data-storing chips have `` volatile '' memories 
Developers caution that broad applications are several years away 
Developers caution that broad applications are several years away because the technology is n't fully refined . 
Once production hurdles are overcome , the chips could take over a significant part of the market 
In addition to not needing an outside power source , they are potentially cheaper to make 
Military buyers have shown interest 
Military buyers have shown interest , National says , because ferroelectric chips resist atomic radiation . 
And while today 's non-volatile chips -- such as electronically erasable programmable read-only memory chips -- ca n't be used in a computer 's central memory because they `` learn '' data slowly , ferroelectric chips accept data at very high speeds 
And while today 's non-volatile chips -- such as electronically erasable programmable read-only memory chips -- ca n't be used in a computer 's central memory 
That means huge travel bills . 
The company installed a prototype system that connects Dallas with Miami over digital phone lines . 
While lawyers arranged individual tie-ups before , the formal network of court reporters should make things easier and cheaper 
Until now , most Japanese charges have been responses to suits against them . 
But last year Hitachi Ltd. surprised Japan 's electronics industry 
But last year Hitachi Ltd. surprised Japan 's electronics industry when it accused Korea 's Samsung Electronics Co. of using Hitachi technology to make dynamic random-access memory chips . 
Hitachi made the reverse-engineering charges in an amendment to a counterclaim filed in a federal district court in Texas 
The company said earnings would have increased 
The company said earnings would have increased if it had n't been actively repurchasing its shares 
He said Tandy `` has done a decent job '' increasing sales by manufacturing computers for others and expanding sales of its Grid Systems Corp. subsidiary , which sells computers to bigger businesses 
`` Radio Shack continues to be lackluster , '' said Dennis Telzrow , analyst with Eppler , Guerin & Turner in Dallas . 
Tandy said consumer electronics sales at its Radio Shack stores have been slow , partly because of a lack of hot , new products . 
`` If the earnings acceleration is to take place , that should be the quarter 
He said Drexel -- the leading underwriter of high-risk junk bonds -- could no longer afford to sell any junk offerings 
He said Drexel -- the leading underwriter of high-risk junk bonds -- could no longer afford to sell any junk offerings 
He said Drexel -- the leading underwriter of high-risk junk bonds -- could no longer afford to sell any junk offerings if they might later become troubled 
The dinner was a stark confirmation that 1989 is the worst year ever for the $ 200 billion junk market . 
Although the big investment bank still dominates the junk market , Drexel has been unable to stem the fallout from growing junk bond defaults , withdrawn new offerings , redemptions by shareholders in junk bond mutual funds and an exodus of once-devoted investors 
`` This is the worst shakeout ever in the junk market 
`` This is the worst shakeout ever in the junk market , and it could take years 
For many money managers , the past four months have been humiliating . 
The junk market , which mushroomed to $ 200 billion from less than $ 2 billion at the start of the decade , has been declining for months 
At that point , the junk market went into a tailspin 
At that point , the junk market went into a tailspin as buyers disappeared 
`` Nobody 's been perfect in their credit judgments the past couple years 
In recent months , they say , there has been heavy selling of junk bonds by some of the market 's traditional investors 
Wall Street securities firms , `` the primary source of liquidity for the high yield market , '' have been net sellers of junk bonds because of trading losses , Deltec said in a recent , grim report to customers . 
Mutual funds have also been net sellers of junk bonds 
Investors , trying to raise cash , have sold `` large liquid issues '' such as RJR Holdings Corp. and Kroger Co. ; declines in these benchmark issues have contributed to the market 's distress . 
And , Deltec said , buying has been severely reduced 
And , Deltec said , buying has been severely reduced because savings and loans have been restricted in their junk purchases by recently passed congressional legislation . 
In recent months , they say , there has been heavy selling of junk bonds by some of the market 's traditional investors , while new buyers have n't materialized to replace them . 
`` We certainly do have a lack of liquidity here 
`` I have no reason to think things will get worse 
Although the majority of junk bonds outstanding show no signs of default , the market has downgraded many junk issues as if they were in trouble 
Although the majority of junk bonds outstanding show no signs of default , the market has downgraded many junk issues 
Although the majority of junk bonds outstanding show no signs of default , the market has downgraded many junk issues as if they were in trouble , says Stuart Reese , manager of Aetna Life & Casualty Insurance Co. 's $ 17 billion investment-grade public bond portfolio . 
`` But we think the risks are there for things getting a lot worse . 
`` If anything , we 're going to see defaults increase 
Mr. Asquith , whose study on junk bond defaults caused a furor on Wall Street 
Mr. Cornell says : `` The junk market is no bonanza as Drexel claimed 
Mr. Cornell says : `` The junk market is no bonanza as Drexel claimed 
Despite the junk market 's problems , Drexel continues to enjoy a loyalty among junk bond investors that its Wall Street rivals have n't found . 
Despite the junk market 's problems , Drexel continues to enjoy a loyalty among junk bond investors that its Wall Street rivals have n't found . 
`` Quality junk bonds will continue to trade well , '' says Michael Holland , chairman of Salomon Brothers Asset Management Inc . 
As Helen Boehm , who owns an art porcelain company , sipped her luncheon cocktail , she reeled off the names of a few pals -- Prince Charles , Princess Diana , Sarah Ferguson , John Kluge , Milton Petrie 
As Helen Boehm , who owns an art porcelain company , sipped her luncheon cocktail , she reeled off the names of a few pals -- Prince Charles , Princess Diana , Sarah Ferguson , John Kluge , Milton Petrie . 
As it turns out , the board has a lot of important members , including Winton Blount -LRB- former postmaster general of the U.S. -RRB- , Mrs. Henry Gaisman -LRB- widow of the inventor of auto-strop razor -RRB- and Vincent Murphy -LRB- an investment banker at Merrill Lynch & Co . -RRB- 
Like which are droppable 
With the fall social season well under way , name-droppers are out in force , trying to impress their betters and sometimes put down their lessers . 
But the truth is that almost everyone , from real-estate agents to city fathers , name-drops 
`` Name-dropping is pervasive and getting more so 
`` I was having a drink in Sardi 's 
`` I was having a drink in Sardi 's , when all of a sudden I saw a woman 's backside coming up the steps on the second floor 
I knew it was someone important 
I knew it was someone important , so I followed her into the ladies room 
I knew it was someone important , so I followed her into the ladies room and sure enough , it was Liza . 
So I said , ` Hello . ' 
`` They ca n't help talking about the big important people they know 
`` I do it innately and pathologically 
`` I do it innately and pathologically , and while it may occasionally get me into trouble , it 's also gotten me access to parties and society 
`` I do it innately and pathologically , and while it may occasionally get me into trouble 
`` I guess I might have asked Beauregard to leave 
`` After all , Warhol was the ultimate namedropper , dropping five a day in his diaries . 
And Beauregard was mentioned twice 
Mr. Houston-Montgomery says that at the party he waved to Malcolm Forbes , publisher of Forbes magazine -LRB- `` We've been in the columns together '' -RRB- , Mary Boone , a New York art dealer -LRB- `` I think she knows me 
Mr. Houston-Montgomery says that at the party he waved to Malcolm Forbes , publisher of Forbes magazine -LRB- `` We've been in the columns together '' -RRB- , Mary Boone , a New York art dealer -LRB- `` I think she knows me , but I 'm not sure '' -RRB- and Bridget Fonda , the actress -LRB- `` She knows me 
Mr. Revson , the gossip columnist , says there are people who actually plan whose names they are going to drop 
`` They even drop semi-obscure names like Wolfgang Flottl , whom everybody these days apparently has heard of 
`` It 's the one-upsmanship of name-dropping that counts . '' 
It has gotten a bad rep 
It has gotten a bad rep 
It has gotten a bad rep because its once heavily polluted Cuyahoga River caught fire , because former Mayor Ralph Perk set his hair on fire with an acetylene torch 
It has gotten a bad rep 
Mr. Miller notes that actor Paul Newman 's family owned a sporting-goods store in Cleveland , that the late actress Margaret Hamilton , who played the bad witch in `` The Wizard Of Oz , '' once ran a nursery school in Cleveland 
Mr. Rambo says that a 3.2-acre property overlooking the San Fernando Valley is priced at $ 4 million 
`` If Flynn had n't lived there , the property might have been priced $ 1 million lower 
`` If Flynn had n't lived there , the property might have been priced $ 1 million lower , '' says Mr. Rambo , noting that Flynn 's house has been bulldozed 
Press agents and public-relations practitioners are notorious name-droppers . 
He says that when Dan Dorfman , a financial columnist with USA Today , has n't returned his phone calls , he leaves messages with Mr. Dorfman 's office saying that he has an important story on Donald Trump , Meshulam Riklis or Marvin Davis 
He admits he has no story on any of them on these occasions . 
`` But it does get him to return my calls 
`` Get caught 
If directors or producers phone me and say they know ` Liz , ' I know they 've never met her 
In New York society , Pat Buckley , the very social wife of author William Buckley , has the nicknames `` Mrs. Buckles '' and `` Patsy . '' 
In New York society , Pat Buckley , the very social wife of author William Buckley , has the nicknames `` Mrs. Buckles '' and `` Patsy . '' And her husband sometimes calls her `` Ducky . '' 
`` But call her ` Patty 
`` But call her ` Patty , ' and it 's a sure giveaway you 're not in her circle 
That 's 
That 's because they only drop `` mere names , '' says Mr. Churchill . 
`` When you 're at the club , you ask whether they 've spoken to ` G 
Now they know who you mean 
Now they know who you mean and you know who you mean . 
Now that 's name-dropping 
He says the number of automobile choices is causing stress among consumers today 
He says it 's important for a new make to be as distinctive as possible 
`` There 's more noise out there 
`` There 's more noise out there , and the consumer may have to work harder to cut through it , '' says Vincent P. Barabba , executive director of market research and planning at General Motors Corp . 
Market segmentation in cars is n't new 
The number of makes has mushroomed 
GM launched the Geo marque this year to sell cars made in partnership with foreign auto makers 
Ford Motor Co. created the Merkur nameplate in 1985 to sell its German-made touring sedans in the U.S. . 
When consumers have so many choices , brand loyalty is much harder to maintain 
It 's hard to generalize 
Young consumers prefer luxury cars by a 37 % to 28 % margin 
Such preferences persist 
Only 58 % of Americans now believe that foreign cars get better gas mileage than domestic models , the Journal survey found , down from 68 % in 1987 . Some 46 % give foreign cars higher quality ratings , down from 50 % two years ago . 
`` Once buying habits are formed , they 're very hard to break 
`` Once buying habits are formed , they 're very hard to break , '' declares Thomas Mignanelli , executive vice president for Nissan 's U.S. sales operations . 
`` The competition is so intense that an owner 's loyalty to a dealership or a car is virtually nonexistent , '' says Mr. Negas , vice president of Ed Voyles Oldsmobile , one of the first dealerships to locate on the strip . 
Ed Voyles Olds recently established a special section in the service department for owners whose cars are less than a year old 
Some 60 % of the survey respondents said they would buy anti-lock brakes 
Some 60 % of the survey respondents said they would buy anti-lock brakes even if they carry a medium or high price tag . More than 50 % felt the same way about air bags . 
In contrast , dashboard computers , power seats and turbo-charged engines had little appeal . 
GM 's Pontiac division is offering a turbo-charged V-6 engine on its Grand Prix model 
Americans spent more than $ 190 billion on new cars and trucks last year 
`` Even if it 's only 1 % , '' says GM 's Mr. Barabba , `` would you throw away sales the size of Polaroid 
Because the Sago is relatively rare and grows only a couple of inches a year , it 's a pricey lawn decoration 
Because the Sago is relatively rare and grows only a couple of inches a year , it 's a pricey lawn decoration : A two-foot tall Sago can retail for $ 1,000 
Just last week , would-be thieves damaged three Sagos at Mr. Whitelock 's home in the Eagle Rock section 
The department is advising residents to plant Sagos , if they must , in the back yard 
The department is advising residents to plant Sagos , if they must , in the back yard and telling nurseries to be on the lookout for anyone trying to palm one off . 
After three Sagos were stolen from his home in Garden Grove , `` I put a big iron stake in the ground and tied the tree to the stake with a chain 
After three Sagos were stolen from his home in Garden Grove , `` I put a big iron stake in the ground and tied the tree to the stake with a chain , '' he says proudly . 
It 's the most controversial form of program trading 
Salomon Brothers Inc. was the top program trader in September 
Salomon Brothers Inc. was the top program trader in September , but most of the firm 's activity involved portfolio trading strategies other than stock-index arbitrage . 
The complaint , filed in federal district court , accuses Imperial and other defendants of issuing false and misleading financial data . 
Although an Imperial spokesman said the company had n't yet been served with the derivative suit , he reiterated the company 's statement that it would vigorously defend itself against the class-action suit 
The complaint , filed in federal district court , accuses Imperial and other defendants of issuing false and misleading financial data . 
The percent difference compares actual profit with the 30-day estimate where at least three analysts have issues forecasts in the past 30 days . 
Eastman Kodak Co. , seeking to position itself in the potentially huge high-definition television market , unveiled a converter that can transform conventional motion-picture film into high-definition video . 
While the prototype converter is costly , it 's being lauded by the infant HDTV industry as a way of increasing the number of high-quality shows that can be seen on the new medium 
He notes that industry executives have until now worried that they would face a severe shortage of programs 
Japanese electronic giants , such as Sony Corp. and Hitachi Ltd. , have focused almost entirely on HDTV hardware , and virtually ignored software or programs shot in high-definition . 
Consumers will be able to switch on their HDTV sets and get all the viewing benefits the high-tech medium offers . 
Kodak wo n't disclose the cost or when its converter will be on the market 
A similar machine already on the market , made by Rank Sintel Ltd. , a unit of Rank Organisation , costs about $ 500,000 . 
If HDTV takes off in the U.S. , there will be demand for some 4,000 to 5,000 HDTV converters 
`` The converter is head and shoulders above anything else I 've seen , '' says Richard J. Stumpf , vice president - engineering and development at MCA Inc. 's Universal City Studios . 
They ca n't afford to stay out of HDTV . '' 
HDTVs break down images into more than 1,100 lines , compared with 525 for today 's televisions , providing considerably sharper detail . 
The U.S. electronics industry estimates that the HDTV market will total about $ 150 billion over the next two decades , with an additional $ 400 billion expected to go for related products . 
But the financial rewards are n't expected soon 
But the financial rewards are n't expected soon , nor are they guaranteed . 
Yet another political scandal is racking Japan . 
But this time it 's hurting opposition as well as ruling-party members . 
And as it unfolds , it 's revealing some of the more tangled and seamier aspects of Japanese society 
Already , ruling Liberal Democratic Party demands that opposition members testify under oath in parliament have stalled one budget committee session and forced the committee to plan a special two-day investigation at the end of the month . 
`` The opposition can be the most hurt 
`` The opposition can be the most hurt because everyone already figures the LDP is that kind of beast , '' says Shigezo Hayasaka , former aide to LDP kingmaker Kakuei Tanaka and now an independent analyst . 
But , he adds , `` We ca n't tell where it will go at all 
The donations so far appear to be small , especially compared with the huge sums that changed hands in the Recruit Co . influence-peddling scandal that plagued the ruling party last year . 
Recently the industry has faced the threat of new restrictions 
Recently the industry has faced the threat of new restrictions , and political donations may have been made with the intent to bribe . 
Also , about 60 % of pachinko parlor owners are Korean , many of whom maintain close ties with North or South Korean residents ' organizations 
At 500 yen -LRB- $ 3.60 -RRB- for a handful of balls , pachinko is a common pastime , and has been 
At 500 yen -LRB- $ 3.60 -RRB- for a handful of balls , pachinko is a common pastime , and has been since it took root as cheap entertainment in the years after World War II . 
But the total of all those pinging balls has created an industry with a reported annual income of 13 trillion yen -LRB- almost $ 92 billion -RRB- , or nearly the size of Japan 's vaunted automobile industry . 
And because the pachinko industry is regularly at the top of annual lists for tax evasion , some observers estimate the real income could be as much as 20 trillion yen 
If that money were being taxed , it could bring the government a badly needed several trillion yen 
In 1984 , an attempt was made to crack down on the industry with tougher restrictions . 
The proposal split the industry in two , along the lines of national origin : North Koreans oppose the plan 
The magazine alleged that in making the donations , the pachinko industry may have been offering bribes to win support in the battle against prepaid cards 
The Chosen Soren and the JSP immediately denied the report . 
The Chosen Soren and the JSP immediately denied the report . And at first , neither the opposition nor the LDP wanted to pursue the issue . 
Within a matter of weeks , less-conservative magazines reported that members of the ruling LDP had received much larger donations from pachinko organizations . 
Within a matter of weeks , less-conservative magazines reported that members of the ruling LDP had received much larger donations from pachinko organizations . 
Direct donations from either of the residents ' organizations would be illegal 
Direct donations from either of the residents ' organizations would be illegal because the groups are defined as foreign 
The issue is further complicated 
The issue is further complicated because although the organizations represent Korean residents , those residents were largely born and raised in Japan and many speak only Japanese 
Both residents ' organizations admit to receiving some funding from abroad . 
But LDP members and supporters of the prepaid card idea tend to speak in innuendo about the JSP 's alleged donations , implying that North Korean money would be more suspect than South Korean 
When Robert McDuffie was 14 , he got a chance to play in the starting lineup for his high school basketball team in Macon , Ga 
Unfortunately , his mother had tickets for a recital by Itzhak Perlman the same night 
`` I threw such a fit , '' says Mr. McDuffie , who had begun violin studies at the age of six . 
`` But once Perlman started playing , I did n't give a damn about basketball 
`` But once Perlman started playing , I did n't give a damn about basketball ... . 
At 31 , Mr. McDuffie has a rich , full-bodied tone , an admirable rhythmic precision and an increasingly busy schedule . 
His violin classmates included Shlomo Mintz , a protege of Isaac Stern who performed with major orchestras 
`` I thought I was over the hill at 22 , '' recalls Mr. McDuffie , an outgoing man with pale blue eyes and a light Southern drawl . 
`` I did n't learn to count 
After studies at that conservatory 's Pre-College Division with an assistant to the legendary instructor Ivan Galamian , he switched at the college level to Miss DeLay , Mr. Galamian 's longtime assistant and , ultimately , his rival 
`` I think I had to prove myself to her , '' says Mr. McDuffie . 
The second incident took place 
`` We listened to the Chausson ` Poeme , ' '' he recalls , `` and she said , ` You hear the first note , that B-flat ? 
`` That 's the most important experience I 've had with any teacher 
Now , when I play with orchestras , the musicians often compliment me on my intonation 
`` That 's the most important experience I 've had with any teacher , '' he says , `` because she taught me how to listen . 
After winning a school competition with a performance of the latter 's `` Violin Concerto , '' Mr. McDuffie was invited to play the work for the composer , who was dying of cancer 
`` He did n't say much 
`` He did n't say much , but what he said was important 
There 's a beautiful , Coplandesque motif -- he 'd kill me 
It 's written ` marcato ' in the score 
It 's written ` marcato ' in the score , and I played it that way , kind of gigue-like . 
And he yelled out ` dolce ! dolce ! ' -LCB- ` sweet ! sweet ! ' -RCB- . '' 
If a conductor is sensitive enough to bring down the orchestra -LCB- volume -RCB- at that point , it makes the piece magical 
Since leaving Juilliard , Mr. McDuffie has made some smart moves and some controversial ones 
His guest appearance on the NBC soap opera `` Another World , '' scandalized musical elitists . 
Mr. Schuman 's `` Violin Concerto , '' which sounds more like a mildly atonal rhapsody for solo violin with orchestral accompaniment , meanders until the propulsive `` Agitato , fervente . '' 
`` Even when I hear it played badly , I 'm still humbled by the piece 
If I could ever feel I 've contributed to it in some way 
A lot of observers think so 
A lot of observers think so , and , if they 're right , the whole economy as well as the spendthrifts among us could be hurt 
A sudden , forced cutback by consumers , who normally account for about two-thirds of economic activity , would damp the economy at a time when plant-and-equipment spending is slowing 
A sudden , forced cutback by consumers , who normally account for about two-thirds of economic activity , would damp the economy at a time when plant-and-equipment spending is slowing and deficit-racked governments ca n't readily take up the slack . 
During the almost seven-year-old economic expansion , inflation-adjusted gross national product , disposable personal income and personal consumption expenditures have risen 30 % 
During the almost seven-year-old economic expansion , inflation-adjusted gross national product , disposable personal income and personal consumption expenditures have risen 30 % , but inflation-adjusted consumer installment credit has surged 66 % . 
During the almost seven-year-old economic expansion , inflation-adjusted gross national product , disposable personal income and personal consumption expenditures have risen 30 % , but inflation-adjusted consumer installment credit has surged 66 % . And the ratio of installment debt to disposable personal income -- personal income after taxes -- has hit a high of about 18 1\/2 % . 
In a paper presented at the recent annual meeting of the National Association of Business Economists in San Francisco , Mr. Durkin comments that `` installment credit always grows rapidly in cyclical advances 
He adds : `` We are now witnessing a slowdown which , if history is a guide , could persist for a while 
In a paper presented at the recent annual meeting of the National Association of Business Economists in San Francisco , Mr. Durkin comments that `` installment credit always grows rapidly in cyclical advances , and growth in this cycle is very typical of earlier experiences . '' He adds : `` We are now witnessing a slowdown which , if history is a guide , could persist for a while . '' 
Mr. Durkin doubts that `` there is some magic level '' at which the ratio of installment debt to disposable income `` indicates economic problems . '' 
The ratio of consumer installment credit to disposable income , though up a bit , has n't climbed steeply 
The ratio of consumer installment credit to disposable income , though up a bit , has n't climbed steeply , and such debt as a percent of household assets is little changed . 
He notes that some `` revolving credit-card credit is actually convenience credit '' being used simply as a handy way of paying bills rather than a handy way of borrowing . 
In addition , he says , `` longer maturities on automobile and other forms of installment credit boost the stock of debt faster than the flow of repayments and the accompanying payment burden . '' 
And if you `` consider the changing distribution of credit , '' Mr. Durkin says , `` much of the increase in debt in recent years is due to increasing credit use by higher-income families , '' that is , `` those probably best able to handle it 
Citing figures on home-equity loans , he notes that `` 11 % of homeowners had home-equity credit accounts 
Citing figures on home-equity loans , he notes that `` 11 % of homeowners had home-equity credit accounts , but the proportion rises to 16 % of homeowners in the $ 45,000-$60,000 income range and 23 % of homeowners with income above $ 60,000 . '' 
Citing figures on home-equity loans , he notes that `` 11 % of homeowners had home-equity credit accounts , but the proportion rises to 16 % of homeowners in the $ 45,000-$60,000 income range and 23 % of homeowners with income above $ 60,000 . '' And much home-equity credit is used conservatively . 
A severe recession could , of course , raise delinquency rates 
A severe recession could , of course , raise delinquency rates , but so far the current levels of consumer debt do n't seem to loom as a major threat . 
`` Consumers appear unwilling to add to their leverage to support their spending , '' Bruce Steinberg , a Merrill Lynch economist , says . 
The 67-year-old maker of brassieres , panties , and lingerie enjoys one of the best-known brand images 
Its current ad campaign , on which Maidenform has spent more than $ 15 million since fall 1987 , does n't even show its underwear products 
`` The intimate apparel industry is perceived to be a growth industry 
Although working women are `` forced to wear the uniform of the day , to retain their femininity they are buying better quality , more upscale intimate apparel 
Although Mr. Brawer 's appointment as president was long expected , the move on Sept. 25 precipitated the resignation of Alan Lesk as senior vice president of sales and merchandising 
Three days later , Mr. Lesk was named president and chief executive officer of Olga Co. , a competing intimate apparel division of Warnaco Inc . 
Mr. Lesk could n't be reached to comment . 
But Maidenform officials say that after spending 24 years at Maidenform , Mr. Lesk , 48 , made it clear he wanted the top job 
`` If you want the presidency of the company , this is n't the firm to work for 
Warnaco was taken private by Spectrum Group in 1986 for about $ 487 million . 
And last year , Playtex Holdings Inc. went private for about $ 680 million . 
Warnaco was taken private by Spectrum Group in 1986 for about $ 487 million . And last year , Playtex Holdings Inc. went private for about $ 680 million . 
Buy-out offers for Maidenform are n't infrequent 
When he gets calls , `` I do n't even have to consult '' with Mrs. Coleman 
While Mr. Rosenthal introduced new undergarment designs , his wife , Ida , concentrated on sales and other financial matters 
Maidenform products are mainly sold at department stores 
Before joining Maidenform in 1972 , Mr. Brawer , who holds a doctoral degree in English from the University of Chicago , taught at the University of Wisconsin 
While the company has always been family-run , Mr. Brawer is n't the first person to marry into the family and subsequently head Maidenform 
China could exhaust its foreign-exchange reserves as early as next year 
According to the report , completed last month , if China 's trade gap continues to widen at the pace seen in the first seven months of this year , the reserves would be wiped out either in 1990 or 1991 
A country is considered financially healthy 
The report by the Western government , which declines to be identified , concludes that `` a near-term foreign-exchange payment problem can be avoided 
According to Chinese customs figures , import growth has slowed in recent months , dropping to 16 % in July and 7.1 % in August from the year-earlier periods , compared with an average growth rate of 26 % in the first half . 
But before import growth slowed , China 's buying spree in the first half already had taken its toll on foreign-exchange reserves 
China might stave off a crisis 
China might stave off a crisis if it acts as forcefully as it did to arrest the 1985 decline , when Beijing slammed the brakes on foreign-exchange spending and devalued the currency . 
But this time , China faces a more difficult battle because of economic forces that have come into play since the Tiananmen Square killings June 4 . 
In one , imports and exports continue to grow at the respective average rates of 25 % and 5 % recorded during the first seven months 
If China were still on good terms with foreign lenders , it might be able to stem the drain on its foreign-exchange reserves by using some loan funds to offset the current-account deficit 
If China were still on good terms with foreign lenders , it might be able to stem the drain on its foreign-exchange reserves by using some loan funds to offset the current-account deficit . 
Even if borrowing resumes , commercial bankers are n't expected to lend as much as before 
But since June , foreign bankers led by international financial institutions have virtually suspended their new loans to China . 
In addition , economists are forecasting a slowdown in foreign direct investments 
The Western government report 's first scenario assumes a 30 % reduction in foreign borrowing and a 5 % contraction in foreign direct investment . In the second , foreign borrowing is projected to grow 10 % and investment to drop 10 % . 
In the first scenario , the reserves would be exhausted next year 
Roche Holding AG , parent of the Swiss chemical and pharmaceutical group , said its group sales rose 22 % in the first nine months of the year to 7.32 billion francs -LRB- $ 4.51 billion -RRB- . 
Ralph Brown was 31,000 feet over Minnesota 
At 13,000 feet , the engines restarted . 
Had he been a little less gung-ho , `` I 'd have gotten the thing on the ground and headed for the nearest bar , '' Mr. Brown says . 
The election , which would bring the first major union to Federal 's U.S. operations , has pitted new hires against devoted veterans such as Mr. Brown . 
`` A union , sooner or later , has to have an adversary 
Since founding the company , the charismatic Vietnam vet , who is still only 46 years old , has fostered an ethos of combat 
To reinforce employees ' dedication , Mr. Smith pays well . 
To reinforce employees ' dedication , Mr. Smith pays well . He also lets workers vent steam through an elaborate grievance procedure and , as a perk , fly free in empty cockpit seats . He gives pep talks in periodic `` family briefings '' beamed internationally on `` FXTV , '' the company 's own television network . 
The company deliberately understaffs , stretching employees ' schedules to the limit . 
But though couriers work as many as 60 hours a week during the autumn rush , they leave early during slack times 
But though couriers work as many as 60 hours a week during the autumn rush , they leave early during slack times 
Such attitudes have given Federal flexibility , not only to rapidly implement new technology but to keep its work force extraordinarily lean . 
UPS wo n't discuss its labor practices 
Because UPS drivers are n't permitted to load their own vehicles at the depot , say these couriers , packages often get buried in the load and are delivered late 
Although the Tiger acquisition has brought Federal a long way toward becoming the global player it wants to be , it also has brought problems 
Although the Tiger acquisition has brought Federal a long way toward becoming the global player it wants to be 
On routes to South America , the company had no backup jets to ensure delivery 
In Europe , business suffered 
These and other problems squeezed Federal 's profit margins last year to 8 % , down from more than 13 % annually in the first half of the decade . Earnings have plummeted , too , in each of the past three quarters . 
Since trading as low as $ 42.25 a share in May , Federal 's shares have rallied as high as $ 57.87 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading 
In the early 1970s , Mr. Smith modeled his fledgling company on Tiger 's innovation of hub-and-spoke and containerized-cargo operations . 
But from early on , Tiger 's workers unionized 
Although encouraging dialogue between managers and workers , Mr. Smith does n't countenance what he considers insubordination 
When a large group of pilots once signed petitions opposing work-rule and compensation changes , he called a meeting in a company hangar and dressed them down for challenging his authority 
When a large group of pilots once signed petitions opposing work-rule and compensation changes , he called a meeting in a company hangar and dressed them down for challenging his authority . 
When a large group of pilots once signed petitions opposing work-rule and compensation changes , he called a meeting in a company hangar and dressed them down for challenging his authority . He then made most of the changes , pilots say . 
Its 6,500 workers , who had battled Tiger 's management for years over givebacks , were union members until the day of the merger , when most of their unions were automatically decertified . 
When the pilots refused , the company retracted it 
Mr. Smith is trying hard to allay the anger . 
Regulators , as well , might have quashed the deal 
Regulators , as well , might have quashed the deal if Tiger 's pilots had n't been protected , he said . 
The seniority-list controversy , along with the job-classification dispute , has been turned over to the mediator . 
Meanwhile , the company is operating with two separate pilot groups and seniority lists 
Meanwhile , the company is operating with two separate pilot groups and seniority lists , and that is costing Federal `` a big number , '' says James Barksdale , executive vice president and chief operating officer . 
`` They were willing to mistreat us 
A large majority of the 961 former Tiger fliers support the union , according to a union study . 
But though most of the 1,087 Federal pilots are believed opposed , it is unclear just how much their loyalty to Mr. Smith has been eroded 
Some younger pilots say they have had to endure anti-union harangues by senior pilots 
The fight has turned ugly and , among pilots at least , has shattered the esprit de corps that Mr. Smith worked so hard to build . 
The company said it received an order for 23 of the vehicles , which retrieve tanks and other heavy-tracked vehicles 
Mr. Hastings 's case was particularly nettlesome 
Although Mr. Hastings had been acquitted by a jury , lawmakers handling the prosecution in Congress had argued that the purpose of impeachment is n't to punish an individual 
Although Mr. Hastings had been acquitted by a jury , lawmakers handling the prosecution in Congress had argued that the purpose of impeachment is n't to punish an individual . 
Mr. Hastings faced the senators and sat impassively during the first two roll-call votes 
While he packed the Senate gallery with his supporters during some of the impeachment trial , most civil rights groups kept their distance from his case 
When last we left him , FBI Agent Nick Mancuso had solved a murder mystery , unraveled a Washington political scandal , and racked up some pretty good ratings numbers in the miniseries `` Favorite Son 
When last we left him , FBI Agent Nick Mancuso had solved a murder mystery , unraveled a Washington political scandal , and racked up some pretty good ratings numbers in the miniseries `` Favorite Son . '' 
There are plenty of worse inspirations for shows -- and most of them had already made the fall lineup : 
When his secretary is found floating dead in the pol 's pool , Mancuso is called in to investigate 
If all of this seems a little stale , it 's redeemed in part by some tricky plot twists 
The usual suspects are found to be guilty , then not guilty , then guilty -- but of a different crime . If all of this seems a little stale , it 's redeemed in part by some tricky plot twists : 
-LRB- In last week 's rape case , for example , the girl turns out to have been a victim of incest 
If all of this seems a little stale , it 's redeemed in part by some tricky plot twists : 
What makes the veteran FBI man so endearing is his hard-bitten cynicism -- earned 
Three were chauffeurs for J. Edgar Hoover 
He describes a reporter as `` Miss First Amendment . '' He describes a drowned corpse as `` Esther Williams . '' 
And when he 's told `` Try a little tenderness , '' he shoots back `` I 'm going home to try a little linguine 
At the core of Mr. Loggia 's Mancuso is his world-weary truculence . 
If `` Mancuso FBI '' has an intriguing central character , it also has a major flaw 
If `` Mancuso FBI '' has an intriguing central character , it also has a major flaw : 
To start , there 's always a crisis 
One more word 
To start , there 's always a crisis -- and someone always worries , `` What if the press gets a hold of this ? '' At least once an episode we see protestors marching around screaming slogans . At least once Mancuso 's boss yells `` In here -- now , '' and proceeds to dress his investigator down : `` You are a dinosaur ... a hangover in a $ 10 suit ... One more word and you are out on a park bench , mister . '' 
Finally , of course , the boss gives in 
At least once Mancuso 's boss yells `` In here -- now , '' and proceeds to dress his investigator down : `` You are a dinosaur ... a hangover in a $ 10 suit ... One more word and you are out on a park bench , mister . '' Finally , of course , the boss gives in , but he 's still yelling : `` I find myself explaining anything to Teddy Kennedy , you 'll be chasing stolen cars in Anchorage . '' 
Witnesses shout , scream , pontificate : `` ... a dream that the planet could be saved from itself and from the sadistic dumb creatures who try to tear down every decent man who raises his voice . '' 
The scars will be here 
`` Where the hell are they gon na live 
You 're the real criminal here 
In fact , throughout `` Mancuso FBI , '' we do n't get words or lines -- we get speeches . 
They have a series with a good character , some interesting , even occasionally surprising plot lines 
Why , when a key witness disappears , does Mancuso trash her apartment 
Asked to say a few words , he pulls out his crumpled piece of paper and tries to talk 
He bangs on the piece of paper in frustration 
It was a profoundly moving moment for series television 
If the show 's creators could just let themselves be quiet for a little , they might just hear it 
Investment letters now abound , I really like to read them ; If I peruse enough , I 've found I 've no time left to heed them 
Texaco Inc. has purchased an oil-producing company in Texas for $ 476.5 million , its first major acquisition since its legal brawl with Pennzoil Co. began more than four years ago . 
Texaco acquired Tana 
Texaco acquired Tana before it completed those sales 
Texaco 's situation had become particularly complex 
Groupe AG 's chairman said the Belgian insurer is prepared to give up some of its independence to a white knight 
Groupe AG 's chairman said the Belgian insurer is prepared to give up some of its independence to a white knight if necessary to repel a raider . 
The most likely white knight would be Societe Generale de Belgique S.A. , which already owns 18 % of AG 
The most likely white knight would be Societe Generale de Belgique S.A. , which already owns 18 % of AG and which itself is controlled by Cie . Financiere de Suez , the acquisitive French financial conglomerate . 
The most likely white knight would be Societe Generale de Belgique S.A. , which already owns 18 % of AG and which itself is controlled by Cie . Financiere de Suez , the acquisitive French financial conglomerate . 
Mr. Lippens said the volume of shares changing hands has grown significantly since mid-September . 
A `` syndicate '' of shareholders holds just under 50 % of AG 
With the dust settling from the failed coup attempt in Panama , one of the many lingering questions the Bush administration will ponder is this : Is the National Security Council staff big enough 
He was all too aware of how a large , inadequately supervised NSC staff had spun out of control and nearly wrecked President Reagan 's second term . 
So , following both the style he pursued as President Ford 's national security adviser and the recommendations of the Tower Commission , Gen. Scowcroft has pruned the NSC staff and tried to ensure that it sticks to its assigned tasks -- namely , gathering the views of the State Department , Pentagon and intelligence community ; serving as an honest broker in distilling that information for the president 
The Tower Commission specifically said that the NSC staff should be `` small '' and warned against letting `` energetic self-starters '' like Lt. Col. Oliver North strike out on their own rather than leaving the day-to-day execution of policies to the State Department , Pentagon or Central Intelligence Agency . 
The National Security Council itself was established in 1947 
By law , the council includes the president , vice president and secretaries of state and defense . 
By law , the council includes the president , vice president and secretaries of state and defense . In practice , the director of central intelligence and chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff also serve as unofficial members . 
Administration officials insist that the size of the staff was n't a problem during the Panama crisis . 
Gen. Scowcroft is particularly well-versed in arms control 
Both Gen. Scowcroft and his deputy , Robert Gates , are experts in U.S.-Soviet affairs . 
But neither has an extensive background in Latin America , the Middle East or Asia . 
Gen. Scowcroft knows as well as anyone that one of the biggest dangers he faces is that NSC staffers working in relative anonymity will take over policy-making and operational tasks that are best left to bigger and more experienced State Department and Pentagon bureaus . 
Mr. Tomlin , among other things , illegally provided Mr. Lavelle with inside information and documents intended to give Sperry an unfair advantage in the competition , the documents said . 
Court documents filed by prosecutors indicate Mr. Tomlin tried to steer to Sperry a multimillion dollar contract to computerize maintenance of certain Navy electronics equiment . 
Documents filed by prosecutors also indicate that Mr. Lavelle and his fellow conspirators requested and obtained `` approval of the scheme '' from more-senior Sperry officials 
He talked about it in every speech he made 
After all , he says , `` we 've got like 15 million bureaucrats . '' 
Mr. Lesko figured he would be flooded with entries by now . 
Mr. Lesko , who is making the rules 
Mr. Lesko , who is making the rules as he goes , has determined that bureaucrats are eligible for nomination by other bureaucrats . 
He admits that he has n't had much luck generating free publicity for his contest . 
If he sponsored a contest on how a bureaucrat mishandled something , Mr. Lesko admits , `` I 'd get 5,000 entries 
Ford Motor Co. and Saab-Scania AB of Sweden broke off talks about a possible alliance 
With the collapse of the talks Friday , European analysts expect Ford to intensify its pursuit of British luxury car maker Jaguar PLC , which is scrambling to fend off a hostile Ford bid by negotiating a friendly alliance with Ford 's archrival , General Motors Corp . 
Individuals close to the Ford side of the negotiations said late last week that the No. 2 U.S. auto maker lost interest 
Ford originally had seen a Saab alliance as a way to expand its presence in the European and U.S. luxury car markets . 
In addition , Ford and Saab had discussed a possible link between their heavy truck operations . 
Some European analysts speculated that officials of Saab 's highly profitable Scania truck operation balked at surrendering any of their autonomy . 
Saab 's problems were underscored Friday when the company announced that its car division had a 1.2 billion kronor -LRB- $ 186.1 million -RRB- loss during the first eight months of this year , slightly worse than Saab-Scania had forecast in its first-half report last month . 
Last month , Saab-Scania Chief Executive Georg Karnsund said his company has had talks with Fiat about a broader alliance . 
The failure of the Saab talks `` makes it even more crucial for -LCB- Ford -RCB- to be victorious '' in the Jaguar contest , said Stephen Reitman , European auto industry analyst at UBS-Phillips & Drew in London . 
Jaguar executives said last week they expect to have a friendly alliance with GM wrapped up by the end of the month . 
Ford faces an uphill fight for Jaguar , however . 
But Ford clearly views Jaguar as a prize worth fighting for 
Last week , Ford encountered a setback in its effort to broaden its U.S. luxury offerings 
But Ford clearly views Jaguar as a prize worth fighting for , since the company 's gilded brand image would give Ford a badly needed leg up in the high end of the luxury markets in both Europe and the U.S. . 
About 5.4 million Jaguar shares changed hands in active trading on London 's stock exchange Friday 
Up in his stadium box , their new and controversial owner , Jerral `` Jerry '' Jones , watches anxiously 
`` One team pays so much 
Shortly after buying 66 % of the team from H.R. `` Bum '' Bright for $ 145 million , and mindful of the Cowboys ' ragged bottom line , the 47-year-old Mr. Jones set about his own round of team cuts 
When he sells it , he says , the Cowboys will move to a more practical -- read affordable -- grass practice field near Texas Stadium 
With a new day dawning on the sport , Mr. Jones does n't see a place for this sort of luxury . 
After posting losing seasons in each of the last three years , the Cowboys needed a change 
An Arkansas native , he started at guard on the undefeated 1964 University of Arkansas team that won a national championship . After college , he worked at his father 's insurance company in Little Rock , and in 1966 led an aborted attempt to buy the San Diego Chargers . Years later , with cash from the sale of the insurance company , he founded Arkoma Production Corp. , an oil and gas exploration company based in Little Rock . 
So it was n't surprising that Mr. Jones returned to his Arkansas roots 
Seven games -LRB- and , after a loss to the Kansas City Chiefs yesterday , seven losses -RRB- into the season , the `` new '' Cowboys are n't doing any better than the old . 
To try to draw more fans , he has dropped end-zone ticket prices from $ 25 to $ 19 . 
But the general trend , given rising costs in the league , has been to raise prices 
`` If we did n't increase prices , we 'd be in the red 
To try to draw more fans , he has dropped end-zone ticket prices from $ 25 to $ 19 . 
The sales job seems to be paying off : When he bought the team , only six of the suites had been sold 
Last year , the Cowboys ' share of that pie came to $ 17.6 million . 
Mr. Jones is currently trying to jack up the price for those local rights . 
Besides signing Mr. Aikman to a sizable contract , Mr. Jones has agreed to pay rookie quarterback Steve Walsh $ 4.1 million over the next four years 
Details of the plan , which would go into effect in 1993 , are sketchy 
To tackle the problem , NFL owners have proposed setting a rookie wage scale to try to rein in salaries . 
The NFL Players Association , meanwhile , contends that athletes are paid a wage commensurate with their ability to draw fans 
Most of the owners must pay up to 10 % of gross ticket sales for leases on stadiums they say are either too small or too old . 
`` We 're in a metro area with millions of Bear fans 
When the lease expires in 1999 , he says , `` It 's got to be changed 
Many have launched promotions to attract new fans and are renegotiating dated stadium contracts . 
This year , the NFL also imposed an 80-player limit on teams going into training camp , down from 120 , in a move meant to trim payroll costs . 
Owners say they expect the league to demand a 50 % increase , despite the fact that televised football games have had lackluster ratings . 
The new breed of team owner , Mr. Jones included , has been fighting the NFL bureaucracy for a greater say in league affairs 
For his part , Jerry Jones says he 's in the business for the long haul 
`` When I made this investment , I made it on a lifetime basis 
While the Cowboys may not be the best investment now , I do n't accept they ca n't be in the future 
While the Cowboys may not be the best investment now , I do n't accept they ca n't be in the future . '' 
Besides , to a large extent , Mr. Jones may already be getting what he wants out of the team 
Mr. Goldberg contends that even as `` propaganda '' the film fails 
Mr. Goldberg contends that even as `` propaganda '' the film fails because it presents only one view . 
If the request is approved by both the House and Senate , Mr. Cheney would need only permission from the White House Office of Management and Budget to move the money , according to Senate budget analysts 
Lawmakers are expected to try to restore the funds 
Rochester Telephone said the acquisition was made in an exchange of its common shares for all the shares of Urban Telephone 
A bill that would permit the Securities and Exchange Commission to monitor the financial condition of securities firms ' holding companies is facing tough opposition from some Wall Street firms , which argue that the legislation is unnecessary . 
Richard Breeden , the new chairman of the SEC , has n't taken a formal position on the bill , which would also require investors to disclose large trades and give the SEC additional authority during market emergencies . 
Since such loans are often refinanced through the sale of high-risk , high-yield junk bonds , the recent woes of the junk-bond market have renewed concerns among regulators about the risks associated with Wall Street firms issuing bridge loans 
Since such loans are often refinanced through the sale of high-risk , high-yield junk bonds , the recent woes of the junk-bond market have renewed concerns among regulators about the risks associated with Wall Street firms issuing bridge loans . 
In a July 6 letter to the Senate Securities Subcommittee , First Boston Corp. argued that the fact that no retail brokerage firm failed during the 1987 market crash demonstrates that current rules are adequate . 
First Boston , whose holding company , CS First Boston Group , is one of the larger issuers of bridge loans on Wall Street , said it is also concerned that once the SEC has the power to monitor holding companies , it will try to regulate their activities 
`` The proposal , while well-intended , I think can be dangerously misleading 
`` The proposal , while well-intended , I think can be dangerously misleading 
Sources in the industry and on Capitol Hill say a compromise that would placate the industry 
Edward O'Brien , president of the Securities Industry Association , said that the securities-industry trade group opposes the bill as it is written 
In any matters between us and the Cubans there can be no simplicity 
Those `` people '' to whom I refer are not some heroic , indecipherable quantity ; they are artists , critics , taxi drivers , grandmothers , even some employees of the Ministry of Culture , all of whom share a deep belief in the original principles of the Cuban Revolution , spelled out in terms such as equality among all members of the society , reverence for education and creative expression , universal rights to health and livelihood , housing , etc . 
The Ochoa trial in July , with its revelations of deeply rooted and widespread corruption , and the summary trial and execution , was extremely disturbing to everyone who has ever considered himself a friend of Cuba . 
However , unacceptable though those occurrences may have been 
However , unacceptable though those occurrences may have been 
They are not interchangeable 
It is naivete to equate a government 's policies with the will of the people 
Mr. Asman should make distinctions among Fidel , the army and the Cuban people . 
Mr. Asman is also annoyed that Mr. Castro has resisted collaboration with U.S. officials 
Zacks Investment Research did n't adjust one analyst 's estimate for a stock split 
While that represents a small percentage of the city 's public debt outstanding , Friday 's selling followed a weeklong effort to unload the bonds by a broad spectrum of institutional and individual investors 
Although many investors were aware that a bond offering was being scheduled , many expected a much smaller amount of bonds to be sold 
There have been reports for months that the city 's economy is weakening 
There have been reports for months that the city 's economy is weakening , as the October 1987 stock market crash continues to make itself felt . 
Meanwhile , tax revenues are falling 
At present , analysts project a budget gap on the order of $ 500 million to $ 600 million for the fiscal year ending June 30 , 1990 
Mark Page , New York 's deputy director of finance , said that investors ' concerns about the city 's financial health are `` unwarranted given our proven ability to manage ourselves . '' 
The leading contender for the mayoral office , Democrat David Dinkins , has been criticized recently for the way he handled his personal financial affairs . 
`` The market can adjust to good news or bad news 
Last week , yields on long-term New York City general obligation bonds jumped half a percentage point . 
As the yield on New York general obligation bonds rose , the Bond Buyer 20-bond general obligation index , the mostly widely followed gauge of the tax-exempt market , held steady at 7.19 % in the week ended Oct. 19 
Qintex Australia Ltd. encountered another setback Friday when its Los Angeles-based affiliate , Qintex Entertainment Inc. , filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code . 
Qintex Entertainment , a producer and distributor of television programs most noted for its co-production of the hit miniseries `` Lonesome Dove , '' said it filed for Chapter 11 protection 
Qintex Entertainment is 43 % owned by Qintex Australia 
The $ 5.9 million payment was due Oct. 1 
Mr. Lloyd said if Qintex had defaulted it could have been required to repay $ 92 million in debt under its loan agreements 
Mr. Lloyd said both Qintex Entertainment and Qintex Australia had attempted to secure a loan that would allow the company to make the $ 5.9 million payment 
At that point , he said , Qintex Australia stated it would `` endeavor to arrange '' the financing . 
However a Qintex Australia spokesman said his firm had never `` promised or guaranteed '' to make the payment . 
Qintex Australia was `` going to pay more than $ 1 billion for MGM\/UA 
Qintex Australia was `` going to pay more than $ 1 billion for MGM\/UA 
Qintex said Mr. Evans , the former president , resigned for `` personal reasons 
Qintex said Mr. Evans , the former president , resigned for `` personal reasons '' and that Mr. Kimmel , an attorney , resigned 
It 's understood that MGM\/UA recently contacted Rupert Murdoch 's News Corp. , which made two failed bids for the movie studio , to see if the company was still interested . 
The ministry inquired about that deal 
The ministry inquired about that deal -- which Mr. Utsumi declined to identify -- because the large presence of Japanese banks in the deal was `` being strongly criticized in the U.S. Congress 
He said the inquiry was n't made in a way that the banks could have interpreted as either encouraging or discouraging participation 
Mr. Utsumi said the most the ministry had ever done was ask Japanese banks about `` the status of their participation '' in one previous U.S. leveraged buy-out . 
A Sanwa Bank spokesman denied that the finance ministry played any part in the bank 's decision . 
Although some of the Japanese banks involved in the first proposed bid for UAL bowed out because they found the terms unattractive , observers here say they have a hard time believing that commercial considerations were the only reason 
Although some of the Japanese banks involved in the first proposed bid for UAL bowed out 
Japanese banks are under `` political pressure '' as well , the analyst said . 
Moreover , analysts point out that Japanese banks have a reputation for doing deals that are n't extremely profitable 
While recent events may cool some of the leveraged buy-out fever , Japanese banks are n't likely to walk away from the game 
He says that because Seita 's profits are limited by government-controlled cigarette prices , he does n't have the cash to diversify as heavily into food and drink as the U.S. concern has done 
He says that because Seita 's profits are limited by government-controlled cigarette prices , he does n't have the cash to diversify as heavily into food and drink as the U.S. concern has done . 
He says that because Seita 's profits are limited by government-controlled cigarette prices , he does n't have the cash to diversify as heavily into food and drink as the U.S. concern has done . 
While Seita does n't own the French tabacs , its close alliance with them offers distribution possibilities 
Once activated , the card would sit in the car 's window , showing traffic wardens how much time the motorist could remain 
When the motorist returned to his car he could turn the card off 
When the motorist returned to his car he could turn the card off and , if it showed time remaining , save it for later 
One proposal is to introduce a new payment system for parking in Paris . 
It currently is considering bidding for Swedish Match Co . It wanted to buy RJR Nabisco Inc. 's French cracker subsidiary , Belin , in hopes of selling its products in tobacco stores , but lost the bidding to food group BSN SA . 
And Seita is considering further diversification . 
While Seita retains a manufacturing monopoly in France , it is being hurt by rising imports and from waning cigarette demand 
While Seita retains a manufacturing monopoly in France , it is being hurt by rising imports and from waning cigarette demand . 
When the Supreme Court upheld Missouri 's abortion restrictions last July , the justices almost certainly did n't have drunk driving , trespassing and false imprisonment on their minds 
When the Supreme Court upheld Missouri 's abortion restrictions last July , the justices almost certainly did n't have drunk driving , trespassing and false imprisonment on their minds . 
The decision , Webster vs. Reproductive Health Services , illustrates how Supreme Court rulings often have a ripple effect , spreading into areas of law and policy that were n't part of the actual cases decided 
In the Missouri case , unforeseen consequences may have arisen 
The preamble says that human life begins at conception 
Last year , a federal appeals court in St. Louis said the preamble was unconstitutional , citing an earlier Supreme Court ruling that states ca n't justify stricter abortion curbs by changing the definition of when life begins . 
But the Supreme Court concluded that it was premature to rule on the constitutionality of the preamble 
In another case , a protester , Ann O'Brien , was convicted of trespass 
Last week , when her appeal was argued before the Missouri Court of Appeals , her lawyer also relied on the preamble 
Relying on the preamble 's statement that a fetus is an unborn child , the two St. Louis County Circuit Court judges in August accepted the justification that the abortion clinic protesters were trying to save lives . 
`` The effect of the Supreme Court Webster opinion is that it left room for grass to grow in the cracks of Roe vs. Wade 
Mario Mandina , president of Kansas City Lawyers for Life , says that if abortion foes succeed in using the preamble to escape prosecution for trespass , `` This will shut down abortion in Missouri 
There 's no risk to the protesters 
There 's no risk to the protesters , and you ca n't keep an abortion clinic open 
In one , the lawyer for a 20-year-old resident of Columbia , Mo. , who was charged with drunk driving , argued that his client should be treated as a 21-year-old adult 
In Missouri , those caught drinking and driving between the ages of 16 and 21 may have their licenses revoked for one year 
A Boone County judge rejected the motion 
In one , the lawyer for a 20-year-old resident of Columbia , Mo. , who was charged with drunk driving , argued that his client should be treated as a 21-year-old adult because his actual age should be calculated from conception , not from birth . 
Up to 500,000 Somalis have escaped to the relative safety of Marxist Ethiopia because of the behavior of President Barre 's troops . 
In the port of Berbera , for example , hundreds of men of the rival Issak clan were rounded up in May 1988 , imprisoned 
The horrific details are only now emerging from a painstakingly documented report , based on hundreds of interviews with randomly selected refugees . 
As long as the rival Soviet-backed regime of Mengistu Haile Mariam held a total gridlock over neighboring Ethiopia , the U.S. was forced to accept that lonely Berbera runway as a distant No. 2 to the Soviets ' array of airfields next door 
As long as the rival Soviet-backed regime of Mengistu Haile Mariam held a total gridlock over neighboring Ethiopia , the U.S. was forced to accept that lonely Berbera runway as a distant No. 2 to the Soviets ' array of airfields next door . 
Tigrean armies are now 200 miles north of Addis Ababa , threatening the town of Dese , which would cut off Mr. Mengistu 's capital from the port of Assab , through which all fuel and other supplies reach Addis Ababa . 
As a result , Mr. Mengistu has been forced to transfer thousands of troops from Eritrea just to hold the town 
While the Tigreans are communists , like the Eritreans they are among the most anti-Soviet guerrillas in the world 
What this all means in shorthand is that Soviet dominance in Ethiopia is collapsing as fast as President Barre 's regime in Somalia is . 
The State Department , to its credit , has already begun distancing itself from Mr. Barre , evinced by its decision to publish the Gersony report -LRB- which the press has ignored -RRB- . What 's more , the U.S. has suspended $ 2.5 million in military aid and $ 1 million in economic aid . 
Because the U.S. is still perceived to be tied to Mr. Barre , when he goes the runway could go too 
Because the U.S. is still perceived to be tied to Mr. Barre , when he goes the runway could go too 
It is a certainty that Mr. Barre 's days are numbered . 
Nobody is sure what will come next in Somalia 
Nobody is sure what will come next in Somalia or whom the successor might be . 
While the State Department positions itself for the post-Barre period in Somalia , it should continue to back former President Carter 's well-intentioned role as a mediator between Mr. Mengistu and the Eritrean guerrillas in Ethiopia , while concomitantly opening up channels of communications with the Tigrean rebels through neighboring Sudan 
While the State Department positions itself for the post-Barre period in Somalia , it should continue to back former President Carter 's well-intentioned role as a mediator between Mr. Mengistu and the Eritrean guerrillas in Ethiopia 
There is simply no way to engineer a succession covertly , as is sometimes possible elsewhere on the continent . 
The only U.S. liability in the region is what remains of the link to Mr. Barre 
Output from the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries is already at a high for the year 
Output from the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries is already at a high for the year and most member nations are running flat out . 
But industry and OPEC officials agree that a handful of members still have enough unused capacity to glut the market and cause an oil-price collapse a few months from now 
But industry and OPEC officials agree that a handful of members still have enough unused capacity to glut the market and cause an oil-price collapse a few months from now if OPEC does n't soon adopt a new quota system to corral its chronic cheaters . 
So far this year , rising demand for OPEC oil and production restraint by some members have kept prices firm despite rampant cheating by others . 
But that could change 
At that rate , a majority of OPEC 's 13 members have reached their output limits , they said . 
The Iraqi oil minister and Saudi oil minister Hisham Nazer insisted in their comments to the conference that their countries would act responsibly to maintain a stable market . 
`` If you are already producing at 95 % or 100 % of your capacity , what 's the good to be told you can produce at 105 % of capacity 
At an inconclusive Geneva meeting late last month , OPEC 's oil ministers halfheartedly approved another increase of one million barrels a day in their production ceiling . 
At an inconclusive Geneva meeting late last month , OPEC 's oil ministers halfheartedly approved another increase of one million barrels a day in their production ceiling . 
Still , there was a breakthrough at Geneva . 
Previously , no OPEC member had been willing to accept a reduction in its percentage share of the group 's total output target , or ceiling . 
Libya accepted Iran 's proposal only so long as it was promised production parity with Kuwait . 
In the end politics got in the way . 
But the oil ministers continue to study the plan 
The ceiling would be lifted to 21.5 million barrels to provide Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates much higher official quotas 
Libya 's previous conditions are no longer considered a problem 
Libya 's previous conditions are no longer considered a problem , although the United Arab Emirates is still an issue . 
Insisting on a 24.5 % share of any ceiling , Saudi officials have long pressed for the pro rata distribution of increases to all members . 
In Geneva , however , they supported Iran 's proposal 
In Geneva , however , they supported Iran 's proposal because it would have left the Saudi percentage of the OPEC total intact , and increased actual Saudi volume to nearly 5.3 million barrels daily from five million . 
Adm. Goupil said that when the F-18s wear out , the navy is prepared to take Rafales to replace them 
Officially , the statement is n't an attack on the Rafale . 
Although they never said so publicly , they have made no secret of their preference for the F-18 on operational grounds 
Although government-controlled , Dassault still is run by the founder 's son , Chairman Serge Dassault , who has fiercely protected his company 's independence 
The Rafale project is the result of France 's inability jointly to develop a plane with other countries 
Securities analysts , many of whom scrapped their buy recommendations 
Fuel and personnel costs are rising 
Fuel and personnel costs are rising , and tourism in and through Hong Kong remains clouded by China 's turmoil since the June 4 killings in Beijing . 
In addition , delivery delays for the first two of as many as 28 Boeing 747-400s that the carrier has ordered have raised costs 
In addition , delivery delays for the first two of as many as 28 Boeing 747-400s that the carrier has ordered have raised costs because personnel had been hired to man the planes . 
And tough competition in the air-freight market is cutting into an important sideline . 
There also is concern that once Hong Kong reverts to China 's sovereignty in 1997 , Cathay will be forced to play second fiddle to China 's often-disparaged flag carrier , Civil Aviation Administration of China , or CAAC 
The fuel-efficient Airbus planes will be used largely to replace Cathay 's aging fleet of Lockheed Tristars for regional flights 
One step is to beef up its fleet . 
Fierce bidding for young employees in Hong Kong is pushing up Cathay 's labor costs by 20 % a year for low-level staff 
Some jobs already have been moved to Australia 
Although the June 4 killings in Beijing have hurt its China flights , Cathay 's other routes have retained high load factors 
Cathay is working to promote Hong Kong as a destination worth visiting on its own merits , rather than just a stopover . 
Mr. Eddington sees alliances with other carriers -- particularly Cathay 's recent link with AMR Corp. 's American Airlines -- as an important part of Cathay 's strategy . 
Analysts believe Cathay is approached for such swaps by other carriers on a regular basis 
`` We think alliances are very important , '' Mr. Eddington says . 
`` We 'll never have a big operation in the 
`` We 'll never have a big operation in the U.S. , and they 'll never have one as big as us in the Pacific , '' Mr. Eddington says . 
Cathay has long stated its desire to double its weekly flights into China to 14 
Cathay has long stated its desire to double its weekly flights into China to 14 , and it is applying to restart long-canceled flights into Vietnam . 
While a large number of Hong Kong companies have reincorporated offshore ahead of 1997 , such a move is n't an option for Cathay 
While a large number of Hong Kong companies have reincorporated offshore ahead of 1997 , such a move is n't an option for Cathay 
While a large number of Hong Kong companies have reincorporated offshore ahead of 1997 , such a move is n't an option for Cathay because it would jeopardize its landing rights in Hong Kong . 
He says the airline is putting its faith in the Sino-British agreement on Hong Kong 's return to China . A special section dealing with aviation rights states that landing rights for Hong Kong 's airlines , which include the smaller Hong Kong Dragon Airlines , will continue to be negotiated by Hong Kong 's government . 
`` Cathay would love to keep going 
Mr. Eddington acknowledges that the carrier will have to evolve and adapt to local changes 
A policeman shakes his head in amazement 
She is told she ca n't enter 
After being inspected , buildings with substantial damage were color-coded 
One building was upgraded to red status 
One building was upgraded to red status while people were taking things out 
When he sneaked back later to try again , a different policeman offered to help him get the car out 
One man trying to remove his car was told by officials to get out of his garage . 
The Marina rescue center offered a very San Franciscan response to the disaster . 
The Marina also has become the focal point of city efforts to reunite residents with any pets that may have fled or become lost during the earthquake . 
The SPCA says it has received more than 100 requests for foster homes on behalf of dogs and cats 
The SPCA says it has received more than 100 requests for foster homes on behalf of dogs and cats , though some people have sought temporary homes for birds and fish . 
`` She can stay there with no heat 
The neighborhood around Alexander Haagen Co. 's Vermont-Slauson Shopping Center in the Watts section of Los Angeles resembles the crime-ridden , deteriorating sections of many inner cities and certainly is n't the sort of area one would choose to visit . 
But turn into the shopping center 's parking lot 
Major regional and national chain stores are replaced by mom-and-pop operations offering poorer-quality merchandise at higher prices . Along with the exodus of shopping opportunities is an exodus of the jobs that the major chains used to provide to community residents . A successful low-crime mall in a high-crime area violates the more typical inner-city pattern , in which commercial areas are taken over by unruly youth , gangs , and the criminal element , with an erosion of the customer base , development capital , and insurability . 
This defensible commercial zone becomes , for the residents , a secure oasis in a barren urban landscape , evidence that community decay is not inevitable 
As many of these jobs are filled by local residents , who move from the welfare rolls to the tax rolls , the $ 2,500-per-job public investment should repay itself in a few years 
As many of these jobs are filled by local residents , who move from the welfare rolls to the tax rolls , the $ 2,500-per-job public investment should repay itself in a few years . 
And that is 
An additional benefit is the creation of jobs . 
In the Grand Boulevard Plaza developed by Matanky Realty Group in Chicago 's Third Ward , opposite the Robert Taylor Homes , 29 % of the stores to date have been leased to blacks 
Primarily that putting one of these inner-city deals together takes time , patience , breadth of vision and negotiating skills that not all developers possess . 
Infrared motion detectors and closed-circuit TV cameras monitor the entire center ; lighting levels are three to five times the industry standard . The security command post , camouflaged as second-story retail space , has its own `` crow 's nest '' above the roofs of the other buildings , with a panoramic view of the entire center . Local law enforcement is present in a sub-station occupying space donated by the center . The entire site is enclosed by a 6-to-8-foot-high ornamental iron fence with a small number of remote-controlled gates . Shrubs and flowers give it a pleasing and non-fortress-like appearance . 
These security costs are kept off-budget 
Many of these programs no longer exist , or have been severely cut back . 
However , since these centers appear to pay for themselves , there is nothing to prevent state and local governments from enacting legislation with similar provisions 
If the risks and rewards are reasonable , developers will respond 
One company recently was listed on the New York Stock Exchange 
Sierra Tucson Cos. , Tucson , Ariz. , started trading under STSN . 
If growth regains its glamour among investors , a sluggish segment of the Nasdaq over-the-counter market could show some flash 
`` The market will have to look for a new theme now 
These are sometimes dubbed `` emerging '' growth companies 
These are sometimes dubbed `` emerging '' growth companies 
While many growth stocks are small , not all small stocks have earnings-growth momentum 
That 's an important distinction 
`` You can find some good , quality companies over the counter 
`` If the market refocuses on earnings , we should get better valuations of growth stocks 
The average issue on Standard & Poor 's 500-stock Index gained 35 % last year , Ms. Farrell of PaineWebber says . 
Understandably , smaller growth stocks have n't been in favor recently . 
In addition , earnings growth took a back seat to cash flow , restructuring and takeover potential , and breakup value as the preferred stock-picking standards for much of the year . 
Also , the smaller growth stocks are n't widely traded 
Understandably , smaller growth stocks have n't been in favor recently . 
As a result , Morgan Stanley 's Index of 40 Emerging Growth Stocks -- most of which are in the OTC market -- is up only 13 % for the year 
As a result , Morgan Stanley 's Index of 40 Emerging Growth Stocks -- most of which are in the OTC market -- is up only 13 % for the year , while the Dow Jones Industrial Average has leaped 24 % 
The Nasdaq Composite has gained 23 % this year 
Some investors are skeptical of growth stocks 
Some investors are skeptical of growth stocks because investing in them means ignoring that maxim found in the fine print of some investment advertisements -- that past performance is n't indicative of future results . 
Mark Schoeppner , portfolio manager at Pittsburgh-based Quaker Capital Management , says that in reaction to nervousness about debt-laden buy-out transactions , analysts and investors now appear to be `` valuing stock based on future earnings as opposed to the amount of debt the company can support . '' 
St. Jude 's market value on Nasdaq exceeds $ 1 billion 
Merchants Bank of New York lost 1 to 106 
Eliot Savings Bank lost 7\/8 to 1 5\/8 
BanPonce jumped 4 1\/2 to 47 3\/4 
BanPonce jumped 4 1\/2 to 47 3\/4 after agreeing to be acquired by Banco Popular de Puerto Rico for $ 56.25 a share . 
Qintex Entertainment dropped 2 5\/8 to 1 1\/2 
Raymond Corp. lost 1 to 10 
Raymond Corp. lost 1 to 10 after it said late Thursday that it will take a $ 4.4 million charge in its third quarter for reserves to cover potential charges in connection with the closing and sale of a manufacturing plant . 
LIN added 5\/8 to 110 5\/8 
McCaw has called for a `` fair auction '' of LIN 
The coupon will be reset in one year at a rate that will give the issue a market value of 101 . 
However , the maximum coupon rate on the issue when it is reset can only be 15.5 % 
However , the maximum coupon rate on the issue when it is reset can only be 15.5 % . 
The equity kicker is not attached to the offering 
The equity kicker is not attached to the offering , but underwriters said it will be offered 
First Interstate made the move under pressure from regulators . 
When First Interstate balked , arguing that the figure was too high , regulators responded by raising their recommendation to $ 350 million 
He said the provision `` was n't forced upon us 
At least six of Arizona 's 12 savings and loan institutions have either been taken over by the government 's conservatorship program or are essentially insolvent ; they are sitting on enormous unrecognized losses . 
It had a $ 258.9 million loss in the second quarter . 
It had a $ 258.9 million loss in the second quarter . 
It also had $ 479.7 million of past-due loans ; its level of reserves against those was n't immediately available 
They have no reserves against the real estate 
Other lenders have been recovering only 50 cents to 60 cents on the dollar on foreclosed Arizona property 
Now , annual population growth is running at about 2 % a year , some desert tracts bought three years ago for $ 90,000 an acre are being sold at $ 25,000 an acre 
`` It 's horrible to say 
That 's up from about 687 a month in 1985 
Ralph Shattuck , publisher of Foreclosure Update newsletter , said foreclosures have climbed to about 1,482 a month just in Maricopa County , where Phoenix is located . That 's up from about 687 a month in 1985 , and it 's accelerating : So far this month , foreclosures are averaging about 85 a day . 
Moreover , Mr. Shattuck and others said residential real estate , which had remained fairly strong through most of the downturn , is beginning to comprise more and more of the foreclosures . 
`` It 's reasonable to say there is not a solvent S&L in the state 
Mr. Marrie said the bank expects Arizona real-estate prices , which plummeted 40 % over the last year , to fall another 20 % 
Since its unsuccessful bid for BankAmerica Corp. in 1986 , the bank has undertaken a major restructuring in an effort to cut costs and boost performance 
First Interstate stock closed at $ 57.625 , down 25 cents , in composite trading Friday on the New York Stock Exchange . 
Separately , Standard & Poor 's Corp. lowered its ratings on Valley National Corp. 's senior debt to double-B from double-B-plus , affecting about $ 300 million of long-term debt . 
Commercial paper holders have reinvested their funds 
The IL-4 receptor on the surface of such cells receives the hormone 's message to rally the body 's defense . 
But in certain conditions such as autoimmune diseases and allergies and transplant rejection , doctors would like to damp the immune response 
That 's a faster growth rate than reported by Compaq , which did n't post similar results until its fourth year , in 1986 . 
`` They 've had this field to themselves for over a year now 
`` They 've had this field to themselves for over a year now , and they 've been greatly rewarded , '' said Bob Katsive , an analyst at Disk\/Trend Inc. , a market researcher in Los Altos , Calif . 
Next month , Seagate Technology , which is the dominant supplier of hard-disk drives for personal computers , plans to introduce its first family of low-power drives for battery-operated computers . 
Both Toshiba and NEC already produce hard-disk drives 
Both Toshiba and NEC already produce hard-disk drives 
Both Toshiba and NEC already produce hard-disk drives , and Sony also is studying the field , Mr. Claridge said . 
Each of the three drives uses a mere 1.5 watts of power 
Conner already is shipping its new drives . 
From its inception , Conner has targeted the market for battery-operated machines , building hard-disk drives that are smaller and use far less power than those offered by competitors such as Seagate . 
From its inception , Conner has targeted the market for battery-operated machines , building hard-disk drives that are smaller and use far less power than those offered by competitors such as Seagate . 
Though the service is available only in California , Telelawyer founder Michael Cane says he plans to franchise it in other states 
Local bar associations in some states have numbers that provide free tape-recorded messages explaining certain areas of the law . 
When a caller reaches Telelawyer by dialing 900-TELELAW , a receptionist refers the call to one of six attorneys 
In an effort to determine whether a caller has reason to sue , Cane lawyers review documents and perform research 
If the matter requires further legal work or litigation , Mr. Cane says , his lawyers may refer the client to a law firm 
If the matter requires further legal work or litigation , Mr. Cane says , his lawyers may refer the client to a law firm . 
The firm is getting about 50 calls a day 
A federal court jury in New York found U.S. Rep. Robert Garcia -LRB- D. , N.Y . -RRB- and his wife , Jane Lee Garcia , guilty of extorting $ 76,000 from Wedtech in return for official acts by the congressman . 
Howard Rubenstein , a New York publicist who represents Shea & Gould , said , `` Shea & Gould understands they 're leaving 
He said Shea & Gould held a number of discussions with the five partners during the past few weeks to get them to stay 
While investigations into lawyer misconduct will remain secret , the public will be notified once a formal complaint is filed against an attorney 
While investigations into lawyer misconduct will remain secret , the public will be notified 
While investigations into lawyer misconduct will remain secret , the public will be notified once a formal complaint is filed against an attorney . 
One vocal critic of the changes , Chicago lawyer Warren Lupel , says non-lawyers should n't be on the inquiry panels 
One vocal critic of the changes , Chicago lawyer Warren Lupel , says non-lawyers should n't be on the inquiry panels because they are unlikely to appreciate the nuances of attorney-client relationships . 
One vocal critic of the changes , Chicago lawyer Warren Lupel , says non-lawyers should n't be on the inquiry panels because they are unlikely to appreciate the nuances of attorney-client relationships . In addition , he says , publishing the names of lawyers who are facing charges unnecessarily subjects them to public derogation . 
Drexel does n't have a Delaware office 
Drexel pleaded guilty in September to six felony counts of securities and mail fraud 
Executives close to Philip Morris said that the tobacco and food giant has asked Backer Spielvogel Bates Worldwide Inc. , a unit of Saatchi & Saatchi Co. , and possibly others to work on creative ideas for the account . Several executives said another potential contender is WPP Group 's Ogilvy & Mather agency , which works on some other Philip Morris products . 
Also mentioned as a contender was TBWA Advertising 
The account billed almost $ 60 million last year , according to Leading National Advertisers . 
But Philip Morris has scaled back ad spending on the brand over the past year 
That ad generated so much publicity that a trade magazine launched a contest for its readers to guess who the guy was 
Philip Morris , trying to revive the Benson & Hedges franchise , put the account up for review in 1986 . 
While Wells Rich recently picked up Hertz Corp. 's $ 25 million to $ 30 million account , it has lost a number of big accounts this year , including the $ 20 million to $ 25 million Cadbury-Schweppes Canada Dry and Sunkist accounts , the $ 18 million Procter & Gamble Co . Sure deodorant account and the $ 10 million Polo\/Ralph Lauren business 
This city is girding for gridlock today 
The Bay Bridge , the main artery into San Francisco from the east , will be closed for at least several weeks . 
Meetings canceled by Apple Computer Inc. 's European sales force and by other groups raised the specter of empty hotel rooms and restaurants . 
Until it was closed Tuesday , it had provided the quickest series of exits for commuters from the Bay Bridge heading into the Financial District 
While many of these buildings sustained heavy damage , little of that involved major structural damage 
Some of that money will be available for highway repair and special emergency aid 
Some of that money will be available for highway repair and special emergency aid 
Some of that money will be available for highway repair and special emergency aid , but members of the legislature are also mulling over a temporary state gasoline tax to raise money for earthquake relief . 
However , state initiatives restrict the ability of the legislature to raise such taxes 
Bond Corp . Holdings Ltd. posted a loss for fiscal 1989 of 980.2 million Australian dollars -LRB- US$ 762.4 million -RRB- , the largest in Australian corporate history . 
Operating revenue rose 69 % to A$ 8.48 billion from A$ 5.01 billion . 
The results included a A$ 453.4 million write-off of future income-tax benefits and a provision for a loss of A$ 149.5 million on the sale of a stake of about 20 % in Lonrho PLC . 
The company said the general financial performance of its U.S. brewing operations , G. Heileman Brewing Co. , was `` disappointing 
Now Bond Corp. has agreed to sell at least half its Australian brewing assets . It has sold billions of dollars of other assets and has more on the block . 
But in a TV interview Sunday Mr. Bond said , `` We 've taken a big loss . We 've taken it on the chin . 
But we 're out there 
It said it will look at opportunities in brewing , property and energy resources to the extent consistent with the dominant objective of manageable debt-to-assets ratios . 
Some analysts contend the total writeoffs should have been much greater 
Bond Corp. said the acknowledged losses mean net asset backing is in the red to the tune of 53 Australian cents a share , vs. positive asset backing of A$ 1.92 a share a year ago . 
Still , the directors said , `` Having fully considered all aspects of the company 's state of affairs and future cash flows , the directors confirm absolutely that the company is solvent . '' 
Indeed , in a note to the results , directors said if the `` true worth '' of some of the group 's assets were taken into account instead of using book values , the negative net asset backing a share would turn into `` a substantial positive '' one 
The reason was not high interest rates or labor costs . 
The business closed 
The first time he was shot in the hand 
The U.S. Bureau of Justice Statistics reports that almost 2 % of all retail-sales workers suffer injuries from crime each year , almost twice the national average and about four times the rate for teachers , truck drivers , medical workers and door-to-door salespeople . 
While by no means the highest crime community in the country , New York is a prime example of a city where crime strangles small-business development 
Crime was the reason that 26 % reported difficulty recruiting personnel 
The New York study 's companies averaged 27 employees ; their annual crime losses averaged about $ 15,000 , with an additional $ 8,385 annual cost in security -- enough money to hire at least one more worker . 
Small neighborhood businesses could provide more jobs 
The shift of retailing to large shopping centers has created even greater economies of scale for providing low-crime business environments . 
Bigger business can often better afford to minimize the cost of crime . 
Some cities , including New York , have experimented with special tax districts for commercial areas that provide additional patrols funded by local businesses . 
Increased patrolling of business zones makes sense 
While no guarantee , an increased police presence might even deter further attacks 
They will have to revisit this issue 
That 's a fundamental lesson for investors 
Stock funds , like the market as a whole , generally dropped more than 2 % in the week through last Thursday , according to figures compiled by Lipper Analytical Services Inc . 
One week 's performance should n't be the basis for any investment decision . 
But the latest mutual fund performance figures do show what can happen 
`` You want to know how a fund did 
What you want to know is when the road 's rough , when there 's snow and ice , how 's this car going to perform 
What you want to know is when the road 's rough , when there 's snow and ice , how 's this car going to perform 
General equity funds fell an average of 2.35 % in the week ended Thursday , compared with a 2.32 % slide for the Standard & Poor 's 500-stock index . 
But Lipper Analytical 's figures show that there were a number of ways investors could have cushioned themselves from the stock market 's gyrations . 
But the latest mutual fund performance figures do show what can happen when the going gets rough . 
But while the merits of diversification shine through when times are tough , there 's also a price to pay 
But while the merits of diversification shine through 
But while the merits of diversification shine through when times are tough 
But while the merits of diversification shine through when times are tough , there 's also a price to pay : A diversified portfolio always underperforms an undiversified portfolio during those times when the investment in the undiversified portfolio is truly hot . 
And Friday the 13th notwithstanding , stocks have been this year 's hot investment . 
Thus , even including the latest week , the average general stock fund has soared more than 24 % so far this year , the Lipper Analytical figures show . 
By comparison , global asset allocation funds have turned in an average total return of about 19 % 
Fixed-income funds have returned 8.2 % 
`` That 's the problem with trying to hedge too much , '' said Mr. Brouwer . `` You do n't make any real money . '' 
Some equity funds did better than others in the week that began on Friday the 13th . 
The fund 's strategy is to sell 
We believe interest rates will continue to trend lower 
Many of the funds that did best in the last week are heavily invested overseas , giving them the benefit of foreign currency translations 
Because the funds ' investments are denominated in foreign currencies , their value expressed in dollars goes up when those currencies rise against the dollar 
Because the funds ' investments are denominated in foreign currencies , their value expressed in dollars goes up 
Because the funds ' investments are denominated in foreign currencies , their value expressed in dollars goes up when those currencies rise against the dollar . 
But when the dollar rises against major foreign currencies , as it did for much of this year , the dollar value of these funds declines 
Of the funds that fared the worst in the post-Oct . 13 week , two are heavily invested in airlines stocks , which led the market slide following problems with financing for the UAL Corp . buy-out plan . 
Noting that equity funds are up nearly 60 % from their post-crash low on Dec. 3 , 1987 , he said that what happened last week `` may not be enough of an adjustment . There 's either more to come or an extremely long period of dullness . '' 
`` People showed some staying power 
Officials declined to disclose the value of the transaction or the exact stake that GRE will hold in Nationwide Anglia Estate Agents . 
He has designed furniture and homes as well as commercial and office space . He is now designing a Broadway stage set for a show by the band Kid Creole and the Coconuts . He has put some of his aesthetic ideas into practice with his design of the four-star Quilted Giraffe restaurant -- `` architecturally impeccable , '' Progressive Architecture magazine called it -- and his remodeling of Paul Stuart , the Madison Avenue clothing store . 
If Mr. McDonough 's plans get executed , as much of the Polish center as possible will be made from aluminum , steel and glass recycled from Warsaw 's abundant rubble 
If Mr. McDonough 's plans get executed , as much of the Polish center as possible will be made from aluminum , steel and glass recycled from Warsaw 's abundant rubble . A 20-story mesh spire will stand atop 50 stories of commercial space . Solar-powered batteries will make the spire glow . The windows will open . The carpets wo n't be glued down , and walls will be coated with nontoxic finishes . 
If Mr. McDonough has his way , the Poles will compensate for the trade center 's emissions of carbon dioxide , a prime suspect in the global atmospheric warming many scientists fear 
All architects want to be aware of the ecological consequences of their work 
The son of a Seagram 's executive who was stationed in many countries around the world , Mr. McDonough was born in Tokyo and attended 19 schools in places ranging from Hong Kong to Shaker Heights , Ohio 
Jute , rather than a synthetic material , lies under the tacked-down carpets 
It `` really looks beautiful and is very light , '' says Ann Hornaday , a free-lance writer who has visited the office for lunch meetings . 
Neither the Quilted Giraffe nor the Paul Stuart renovation reflects much of Mr. McDonough 's environmental concern . 
If any nation can use environmentally benign architecture , it is Poland 
Jessica Mathews , vice president of World Resources Institute in Washington , D.C. , says that perhaps a quarter of Poland 's soil is too contaminated for safe farming because of air pollution . 
Mr. Muniak 's company , Balag Ltd. , has agreed to set aside the money to plant and maintain it 
Pittston Co. 's third-quarter net income plunged 79 % , reflecting the impact of a prolonged and bitter labor strike at its coal operations . 
In addition to expected losses tied to the labor strike , the coal group has spent almost $ 20 million since the strike began for security , the company said . 
While `` the tone '' of domestic and international air-freight markets remains sound , seasonal factors are likely to hinder Burlington Air from matching third-quarter results in the fourth quarter 
As they stumble and bumble toward election day two weeks from tomorrow , both Democrat David Dinkins and Republican Rudolph Giuliani are in trouble 
Mr. Dinkins , the Manhattan borough president , can afford more bumbling and stumbling 
Mr. Dinkins , the Manhattan borough president , can afford more bumbling and stumbling because he holds a comfortable 20-point lead in most of the public-opinion polls . 
Ordinarily , a clever opponent would find a way to capitalize on the other side 's misfortunes . 
But Mr. Giuliani , a celebrated prosecutor , has had difficulty switching from his crime-busting , finger-pointing mode to a political stance that suggests he might know something about running this big , troubled city . 
This is the nation 's biggest city 
Republicans figured that in Mr. Giuliani , the nation 's best-known prosecutor , they had a chance for a huge upset in the heart of Democratic territory 
Republicans figured that in Mr. Giuliani , the nation 's best-known prosecutor , they had a chance for a huge upset in the heart of Democratic territory and that they would pick up a new political star . 
He adds : `` It just has n't gotten down to the engine room yet . '' `` We 're picking up steam , '' insists Roger Ailes , Mr. Giuliani 's media consultant , whose last big campaign helped put George Bush in the White House . 
For , just as Mr. Giuliani latches on to an issue that has Mr. Dinkins reeling , his campaign desperately needs cash to keep Mr. Ailes 's commercials on the air beyond Wednesday or Thursday 
Historically , New York is almost always in trouble . 
This year , the city faces a budget deficit that could become even bigger next year . 
`` People were n't so happy in the 1930s , '' says Thomas Lessner , another local professor and the biographer of the legendary Fiorello LaGuardia , the city 's fusion mayor who built a coalition Mr. Giuliani hopes to emulate . 
He defeated the contentious Mr. Koch in the Democratic primary 
Both candidates are negotiating about holding debates 
`` He 's got to get Dinkins 's negatives up , '' says Lee Miringoff , director of the Marist College Institute of Public Opinion . 
It has n't helped that he 's waffled on abortion and gay rights , sought the support of both the Liberal and Conservative parties 
Mr. Mason left the campaign 
It began in 1973 , when he was being considered for deputy mayor 
It began in 1973 , when he was being considered for deputy mayor , and a routine check unearthed the extraordinary fact that he had n't paid his income tax for the previous four years . 
He waits to talk about it 
He waits to talk about it 
`` It looks like serious tax evasion , '' says Mr. Ailes , the Giuliani media consultant . 
He 's had a history of deception 
Rome magistrates accuse Mr. Carboni and several other people of trying to extort 1.2 billion lire -LRB- $ 880,000 -RRB- from the Vatican in return for documents contained in the briefcase of Roberto Calvi , the Ambrosiano chairman found hanged under London 's Blackfriar 's Bridge 
Italian papers speculated the briefcase contained papers either exonerating the Vatican bank from blame in the scandal 
This business trust company said its board elected Kieran E. Burke , a consultant to Drexel Burnham Lambert Group Inc. , as chief executive officer , a new post , and as president . 
Ferranti said that it welcomes the investigation 
Messrs. Lee and Bynoe last July announced a deal that would have made them the first black principal owners of a major professional sports franchise . 
Royal withdrew its offer to buy Realist , a maker of optical and electronic products based in Menomonee Falls , Wis. , for $ 14.06 a share in July 
A Realist official said the company had n't yet received the full complaint and would n't have a response 
The cut in the dividend to 10 cents a share semiannually , from 20 cents , `` would indicate to me they do n't see the problems being fixed real quick , '' said Frank Rolfes , an analyst at Dain Bosworth Inc. in Minneapolis . 
With the exception of van conversions , the industry has seen a decline from 1988 's robust sales . 
`` It 's a large-ticket discretionary purchase , '' said Robert Curran , who follows the industry for Merrill Lynch & Co . 
`` So when there 's talk and concern about the economy , it 's not unreasonable for a portion of the buying public to defer purchases 
Mr. Curran expects industry RV sales for all of 1989 to fall about 5 % from 1988 , when sales of 427,300 units were the highest since 1978 . 
And he said the weakness could continue in the first half of next year . 
But he said the industry has `` a good decade ahead 
Winnebago was hit especially hard in the latest downturn 
Winnebago was hit especially hard in the latest downturn because unit sales in its bread-and-butter motor home business tumbled 25 % industrywide in August , and 10.4 % in the first eight months of the year . 
As the government prepares to release the next batch of economic reports , the consensus among economists and money managers is that the news will be negative 
As the government prepares to release the next batch of economic reports , the consensus among economists and money managers is that the news will be negative . 
Investors rushed to buy bonds during the summer 
Investors rushed to buy bonds during the summer as prices soared on speculation that interest rates would continue to fall . 
But when it became clear that rates had stabilized and that the Fed 's credit-easing policy was on hold , bond yields jumped and prices tumbled 
But when it became clear that rates had stabilized 
But when it became clear that rates had stabilized and that the Fed 's credit-easing policy was on hold , bond yields jumped 
Long-term bonds have performed erratically this year . 
Now some investment analysts insist that the economic climate has turned cold and gloomy 
Now some investment analysts insist that the economic climate has turned cold and gloomy , and they are urging clients to buy bonds 
Among other things , economists note that consumer spending is slowing , corporate profit margins are being squeezed , business confidence is slipping 
Add it all up 
Although the rate briefly drifted even lower following the stock market sell-off that occurred Oct. 13 , it ended Friday at about 8 11\/16 % 
James Kochan , chief fixed-income strategist at Merrill Lynch , is touting shorter-term securities , which he says should benefit more quickly than longer-term bonds 
James Kochan , chief fixed-income strategist at Merrill Lynch , is touting shorter-term securities , which he says should benefit more quickly than longer-term bonds as interest rates fall . 
He says these bonds should appreciate in value 
`` If the -LCB- Tennessee Valley Authority -RCB- sale is any guide , there appears to be good demand for top-quality , long-term paper from both domestic and overseas accounts 
Bullish bond market sentiment is on the rise again . 
When the size of the Refcorp offering was announced last week and when-issued trading activity began , the bailout bonds were yielding about 1\/20 percentage point more than the Treasury 's benchmark 30-year bond 
When the size of the Refcorp offering was announced last week 
Some economists believe that yields on all Treasury securities may rise this week 
Some economists believe that yields on all Treasury securities may rise this week as the market struggles to absorb the new supply . 
But once the new securities are digested , they expect investors to focus on the weak economic data 
`` If one thinks that rates are going down , you do n't care how much supply is coming 
Most bond prices fell on concerns about this week 's new supply and disappointment that stock prices did n't stage a sharp decline . 
In early trading , Treasury bonds were higher on expectations that a surge in buying among Japanese investors would continue . 
Those hopes were dashed 
In the corporate bond market , traders said the new-issue market for junk bonds is likely to pick up following Chicago & North Western Acquisition Corp. 's $ 475 million junk bond offering Friday . 
Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. said that a $ 150 million senior subordinated discount debenture issue by R.P. Scherer Drugs is expected by the end of the month . Today , for example , underwriters at Morgan Stanley & Co. said they expect to price a $ 150 million , 12-year senior subordinated debenture offering by Imo Industries Inc . Traders expect the issue to be priced to yield 12 % . 
`` If they had this much trouble with Chicago & North Western , they are going to have an awful time with the rest 
Last week , underwriters were forced to postpone three junk bond deals because of recent weakness in the market . 
The coupon on the issue will be reset in one year at a rate that will give the issue a market value of 101 . 
However , the maximum coupon rate on the issue when it is reset is 15.50 % 
After hours of negotiating that stretched late into Thursday night , underwriters priced the 12-year issue of resettable senior subordinated debentures at par to yield 14.75 % , higher than the 14.5 % that had been expected . 
In the secondary , or resale , market , junk bonds closed 1\/2 point higher 
Sotheby 's provided the Dorrance family a guarantee of at least $ 100 million , and as much as $ 120 million , to obtain the collection 
The Dorrance estate , auctioned off in a series of sales held over four days , included porcelains , furniture and paintings . 
The conditions include not misrepresenting how many directories will be distributed , and agreeing to make refunds to directory advertisers 
McCaw Cellular Communications Inc. said it obtained `` firm '' financing commitments from three major banks in regard to its offer for 50.3 % of LIN Broadcasting Corp . 
McCaw is offering to buy 22 million shares of LIN for $ 125 each in cash , which would result in McCaw owning 50.3 % of the cellular-phone and broadcasting concern . 
The offer is in limbo , however 
Foreigners involved in prostitution will be punished according to the law 
The Communists nearly succeeded in eliminating prostitution 
The Communists nearly succeeded in eliminating prostitution after taking over in 1949 
Japan agreed to enforce a decision by an international wildlife conference to ban all trade in ivory , a spokesman for the Ministry of International Trade and Industry said . 
Italy should close the Leaning Tower of Pisa 
Trade and Supply Minister Gerhard Briksa said in a letter published in the youth daily Junge Welt that the rise in alcohol consumption in East Germany had been halted 
Hong Kong has built a detention center for illegal immigrants from China 
The dispute started 
A group of senior Conservative legislators , complaining the House of Commons was like a sauna , demanded that the experiment be stopped 
A majority of Japanese banks are said to be wary of making new loans to Mexico under the Brady plan 
A majority of Japanese banks are said to be wary of making new loans to Mexico under the Brady plan because they 're uncertain the Mexican economy will remain stable . 
The officials said that most Japanese banks prefer the losses they 'd suffer in either of the latter options to the risk of new lending . 
But an official at a long-term credit bank explained that since some larger banks have already taken loss provisions for loans to other Third World nations , further write-offs could be viewed as intolerable 
But an official at a long-term credit bank explained that since some larger banks have already taken loss provisions for loans to other Third World nations , further write-offs could be viewed as intolerable . 
As a result , the official said , they may be forced into a no-win situation in which they make risky loans 
Robert Stein , president and chief executive officer , attributed the expected decline partly to the effects of a two-week strike last month at the company 's Masillon , Ohio , bakeware facility . 
Ekco Group Inc. , Nashua , N.H. , expects to report that net income in the third quarter , ended Oct. 1 , fell 50 % to 60 % from $ 2.1 million , or 11 cents a share , a year earlier . 
August through October traditionally is the busiest season for the bakeware business 
Woodstream 's Victor-brand mousetraps and other pest-control products are `` doing very well 
Woodstream 's Victor-brand mousetraps and other pest-control products are `` doing very well , '' and its plastic storage-case products `` are poised for growth , '' he said . 
But the unit 's third segment , wildlife traps , is suffering from a `` depressed market 
-LRB- Prior to acquiring the housewares business , the company was known as Centronics Corp. ; Centronics had been a maker of computer printers 
-LRB- Prior to acquiring the housewares business , the company was known as Centronics Corp. ; Centronics had been a maker of computer printers , but Mr. Stein and other officers decided to sell that business 
Mr. Stein said tighter operating controls have enabled Ekco to reduce inventory levels 25 % to 30 % ; improve on-time delivery of orders to about 95 % from around 70 % ; and to lower the number of labor hours required to produce a unit . 
He indicated that Ekco may be interested in acquiring another company with revenue in the range of $ 75 million to $ 100 million 
The imposition of austerity measures , starting last October , already had begun to pinch 
Foreign lending has been virtually suspended since then , choking liquidity and hobbling many projects . 
At first it attributed the slump to temporary business disruptions 
At first it attributed the slump to temporary business disruptions , but when no orders were logged in August and September , manager Donald Lai became convinced that business would be bad for many months 
The consumer-products and light-industrial sectors are bearing the brunt of China 's austerity measures 
The consumer-products and light-industrial sectors are bearing the brunt of China 's austerity measures , and foreign companies such as Givaudan that deal with those industries are being hit the hardest . 
The current trough is expected to be much deeper 
The current trough is expected to be much deeper , because Beijing has cut off domestic funds from factories for the first time to slow inflation . 
Beijing 's periodic clampdowns on imports have taught many trading companies that the best way to get through the drought is by helping China export . 
Beijing 's periodic clampdowns on imports have taught many trading companies that the best way to get through the drought is by helping China export . 
For a short time after June 4 , it appeared that the trade picture would remain fairly bright . Many foreign trading offices in Hong Kong were swamped with telexes and telephone calls from Chinese trade officials urging them not to sever ties . Even the Bank of China , which normally took weeks to process letters of credit , was settling the letters at record speed to dispel rumors about the bank 's financial health . 
But when foreign traders tried to do business , they discovered that the eagerness of Chinese trade officials was just a smokescreen 
Sitco had customarily tapped the Japanese bond market for funds 
Business is n't any better on the provincial or municipal level , foreign traders say . 
`` There are virtually no new projects 
Even when new lending resumes , foreign exchange would still be tight 
Even when new lending resumes , foreign exchange would still be tight 
Even when new lending resumes , foreign exchange would still be tight because Beijing will likely try to rein in foreign borrowing , which has grown between 30 % and 40 % in the past few years . 
And foreign creditors are likely to be more cautious about extending new loans 
And foreign creditors are likely to be more cautious about extending new loans because China is nearing a peak repayment period 
These have been among the country 's leading imports , particularly last year when there were shortages that led many traders to buy heavily and pay dearly . 
These have been among the country 's leading imports , particularly last year when there were shortages that led many traders to buy heavily and pay dearly . 
But the shortages also spawned rampant speculation and spiraling prices . 
The fund 's purpose is to provide quick and adequate relief . 
The Oil Pollution Act , scheduled to come up for a vote in Congress this fall , would provide that if claimants are n't paid within 90 days of a spill , the liability fund would compensate them and seek reimbursement from the owner or operator of the vessel 
`` Law school teaches wonderful theory 
In the past , associates learned the basics from senior lawyers who acted as mentors . 
But these days , large firms hire as many as 30 new associates a year 
The Hildebrandt course enables students to brush up on negotiation skills by role playing in simulated deals . 
Now , clients know that new associates have had some practical training 
Teens will be able to listen to music with headsets . Study halls , complete with reference materials , will be available . Designs call for an L-shaped structure with a playground in the center . There will be recreation and movie rooms . 
The bench will be lower 
The bench will be lower so the judge seems less intimidating 
About 45,000 children in Los Angeles County are under court supervision 
The panel is expected to add provisions waiving restrictions on the use of federal highway funds 
`` We will support it , we will thank him 
`` Such other amounts will be made available subsequently as required 
We are n't selling bonds right now 
The rating agency said it lowered the ratings on $ 75 million of the holding company 's convertible subordinated Eurodebentures to B-3 from B-1 . 
Where '60s dropouts professed to scorn middle-class life 
Where '60s dropouts professed to scorn middle-class life and ambitious yuppies hoped to leave it far behind 
After all , she reasons , `` there were housewives with Nikons and degrees from cooking schools in France who would kill for her job . '' 
It 's a downbeat , `` thirtysomething '' world , in which bright , still youngish people are engaged in a glossy version of day labor , doing free-lance , semi-professional work that brings little satisfaction or security 
Malcolm faces bankruptcy and an IRS audit 
While she is wondering whether to live it up , and do something even more dramatic , say get married , her life is further complicated by the reappearance of an old flame , David , a film critic and actor who always seems to be just on the brink of stardom 
The humor of the story owes much to the fact that no hearts -LRB- even the characters ' own -RRB- are likely to bleed for the plight of health-food eaters . 
In any case , the foundering middle classes are n't the only ones in trouble 
Patrician , dynamic Scott Thatcher , founder and head of PegaSys , initially finds the takeover threat risible . 
Mr. Garber manages to invest this tale of financial wars with the colorful characters and fast-paced action of a suspense novel . 
And like a spy or mystery story , this novel has strong elements of allegory 
Mr. Garber depicts these moral qualities with the broad brush strokes of a satire that occasionally descends to the realm of cliched caricatures . 
Standard-issue portraits of flaky Californians , snobbish homosexuals and Neanderthal union leaders undermine the force of the author 's perceptions . 
Yet the heavy-handedness of the satire also can be effective in a book like this : If the head of AIW were not portrayed as an utterly contemptible , malicious dolt , we would not much care whether his schemes were defeated , and would not be so diverted in the process 
High-definition television promises to be the TV of tomorrow 
Although major U.S. manufacturers have all but ceded the main segment of that future business to Japan , not everyone here is ready to give up 
Large U.S. companies are interested in other segments of the HDTV business , such as signal-processing and broadcast equipment . 
The small U.S. firms are persisting because of their strong positions in patents 
The small U.S. firms are persisting 
`` Unless it gets more help , the U.S. industry wo n't have a chance 
Thus far , almost all of the basic technology relating to high-definition television has come from U.S. laboratories . 
In the 1970s , Mr. Brody helped develop the first display panels based on active-matrix liquid crystals at Westinghouse Electric Corp. 's research labs in Pittsburgh . 
He has a claim to the right to commercialize the Westinghouse patents 
`` We do n't see a domestic source for some of our -LCB- HDTV -RCB- requirements 
`` We do n't see a domestic source for some of our -LCB- HDTV -RCB- requirements , and that 's a source of concern , '' says Michael Kelly , director of DARPA 's defense manufacturing office . 
The Navy is ordering displays for its Aegis cruisers 
Many critics question the industry 's need for federal support ; the Pentagon justifies its help on national-security grounds . 
`` The industry will create industrial products such as displays for work stations and medical diagnostic equipment 
Although some HDTV advocates are calling for other forms of aid , such as antitrust relief for research consortia , the small firms simply would prefer more DARPA funds 
Each claims to possess the right technology and wants just a bit more money to make it commercial . 
They also want U.S. trade policy to reflect the Pentagon and Commerce department 's concern over their future . Although some HDTV advocates are calling for other forms of aid , such as antitrust relief for research consortia , the small firms simply would prefer more DARPA funds . 
Planar President James Hurd says he has to pay tariffs as high as 15 % to sell his display panels in Japan and South Korea 
SHV , of the Netherlands , which last year merged its North Sea oil and gas operations with those of Calor Group PLC 
Burmah said it had n't held any discussions with SHV 
The official , John DeVillars , asked Clean Harbors for more information 
Generally , regulators have n't announced enforcement actions in the past . 
Indeed , the OTS said that before the law took effect Aug. 9 , it banned another `` key Vision Banc insider '' from insured financial institutions 
Vision Banc was placed in government conservatorship in March 
The OTS did n't say specifically why the action was taken against Ms. Garman . 
The question for investors is , how to protect these returns 
Growth stocks may be as big as Philip Morris or medium-sized such as Circuit City Stores 
`` The period when growth stocks should be performing well is when their earnings are growing at a superior rate to the general level of corporate profits , '' says Stephen Boesel , president of T. Rowe Price 's Growth and Income Fund . 
Growth stocks also are attractive in periods of market volatility , which many investors and analysts expect in the weeks ahead 
This kind of jumpy uncertainty reminds John Calverley , senior economist for American Express Bank , of the 1969-72 period , when the industrial average rolled through huge ranges 
This kind of jumpy uncertainty reminds John Calverley , senior economist for American Express Bank , of the 1969-72 period , when the industrial average rolled through huge ranges and investors flocked to the shares of companies with proven earnings records , which became known as the `` nifty 50 . '' 
Cabanne Smith , president of a money management company bearing his name , predicts that investment companies using computers to identify companies with earnings `` momentum '' will climb on the growth-stock bandwagon 
Cabanne Smith , president of a money management company bearing his name , predicts that investment companies using computers to identify companies with earnings `` momentum '' will climb on the growth-stock bandwagon as the overall corporate earnings outlook deteriorates further . 
Carmine Grigoli , chief market strategist for First Boston , who still says , `` We expect the Dow average -LCB- to be at -RCB- 3000 by mid-1990 
Carmine Grigoli , chief market strategist for First Boston , who still says , `` We expect the Dow average -LCB- to be at -RCB- 3000 by mid-1990 
He cites IBM , which reported a 30 % earnings decline in the third quarter 
`` When they are buying back stock at 10 times earnings , they are suggesting that the rate of return on competing internal projects is below '' returns on the stock 
Big cyclical companies are using `` all the tricks they can to stabilize earnings , '' says Mr. Sloan . 
Growth stocks may underperform cyclical stocks next year 
Traders anticipated a volatile session due to the October expiration of stock-index futures and options , and options on individual stocks . 
Buy order imbalances on several big stocks were posted by the New York Stock Exchange . 
But block trading desks and money managers made a concerted effort to meet the imbalances with stock to sell , one trader said . 
Standard & Poor 's 500-Stock Index gained 0.03 to 347.16 , the Dow Jones Equity Market Index fell 0.02 to 325.50 
Most of last week 's surge in the industrial average came on Monday , when the average rose 88.12 points 
The S&P 500 rose 4 % , the Dow Jones Equity Market index gained 3.7 % 
While most other airline issues took their cue from UAL , USAir Group rose 1 3\/4 to 43 1\/4 on 1.5 million shares amid speculation about a possible takeover proposal from investor Marvin Davis 
USA Today reported that Mr. Davis , who had pursued UAL 
Unocal fell 1 1\/2 to 52 1\/4 
Paper and forest-products stocks declined 
International Paper dropped 5\/8 to 51 , Georgia-Pacific fell 1 3\/4 to 56 1\/4 , Stone Container tumbled 1 1\/2 to 26 5\/8 , Great Northern Nekoosa went down 5\/8 to 38 3\/8 
MassMutual Corporate Investors fell 3 to 29 
In March , the group disclosed it held a 7.2 % stake in Anacomp for investment purposes . 
Home Beneficial Corp. , Richmond , Va. , said it contracted to sell its 50 % interest in a Richmond-area shopping mall to a buyer that was n't identified . 
Following is a weekly listing of unadited net asset values of publicly traded investment fund shares , reported by the companies as of Friday 's close . 
The complaint alleges that the price is `` unfair and grossly inadequate 
The complaint alleges that the price is `` unfair and grossly inadequate '' and that the defendants are seeking to ensure a `` lockup '' of the purchase of Unitel 
The arbs may recoup some of their paper losses 
The arbs may recoup some of their paper losses if the UAL deal gets patched up again , as they did in 1982 when Occidental Petroleum Co. rescued them with a $ 4 billion takeover of Cities Service . 
That 's 
That analysis matches up with stock traders ' reports that , despite the huge drop in the stock , UAL has n't returned to the level at which it could attract buying by institutions solely on the basis of earnings . 
One analyst , who asked not to be identified , said he believes that the UAL pilots and management can put together a bid `` in the $ 225 area 
Other observers note that UAL 's board , having accepted a bid of $ 300 a share , might hold out for a new bid much closer to the original level 
By that logic , the closing of a deal could be much further away than three to four months 
The pilots have a strong financing tool in their willingness to cut their annual compensation by $ 200 million , and to commit $ 200 million from their retirement funds . 
The pilots have a strong financing tool in their willingness to cut their annual compensation by $ 200 million , and to commit $ 200 million from their retirement funds . 
That way , they figure , someone else has an even stronger motivation to make sure the deal is going to work 
That way , they figure , someone else has an even stronger motivation to make sure the deal is going to work , because they would be losing their money 
Banks want to see someone putting up real cash at risk , that is , subordinate to the bank debt in any deal . 
One way out of that dilemma could be a partial recapitalization in which the pilots would wind up sharing the value of their concessions with public shareholders . The pilots could borrow against the value of their concessions , using the proceeds to buy back stock from the public and give themselves the majority control they have been seeking . 
First Boston 's estimates had been higher 
Using estimates of the company 's future earnings under a variety of scenarios , First Boston estimated UAL 's value at $ 248 to $ 287 a share if its future labor costs conform to Wall Street projections ; $ 237 to $ 275 if the company reaches a settlement with pilots similar to one at NWA ; $ 98 to $ 121 under an adverse labor settlement , and $ 229 to $ 270 under a pilot contract imposed by the company following a strike . 
Unfortunately , all those estimates came 
I do n't see anybody who 's sophisticated getting his name associated with this mess 
Some analysts do n't expect a quick revival of any takeover by the pilots . 
Eastern Enterprises , bolstered by improved tonnages in its marine-shipping unit , had a narrower third-quarter net loss of $ 1.1 million , or five cents a share . 
Convex Computer Corp. , continuing its rapid growth 
Earlier this month , Convex made a bid to outflank other supercomputer competitors like Digital Equipment Corp. and International Business Machines Corp. by adopting an open set of standards and introducing new hardware and software to link different systems . 
Posix is one of three or four versions of UNIX 
Posix is one of three or four versions of UNIX , but it is increasingly required by the federal government 
`` They want a lobster trap -- once you get in , you ca n't get out 
`` They want a lobster trap -- once you get in , you ca n't get out , '' he said . 
A Saatchi spokesman declined to comment about Interpublic . 
The offers come 
Takeover speculation has been rife , its consulting business is on the block 
Analysts have continually lowered their earnings estimates for the company 
In the midst of the current turmoil , Saatchi is attempting to shore up its ad businesses . It named a new chief executive officer , former IMS International head Robert Louis-Dreyfus . It rebuffed an offer by Carl Spielvogel , head of Saatchi 's Backer Spielvogel Bates unit , to lead a management buy-out of all or part of Saatchi . 
And last week , people close to Saatchi said Maurice Saatchi and his brother , Charles , would lead a buy-out 
And last week , people close to Saatchi said Maurice Saatchi and his brother , Charles , would lead a buy-out if a hostile bid emerged . 
While Saatchi 's major agency networks -- Backer Spielvogel and Saatchi & Saatchi Advertising -- would be difficult for any ad firm to buy because of potential client conflicts , its smaller businesses are quite attractive 
While Saatchi 's major agency networks -- Backer Spielvogel and Saatchi & Saatchi Advertising -- would be difficult for any ad firm to buy because of potential client conflicts , its smaller businesses are quite attractive . 
-LRB- While there would be some client conflicts , they would n't be nearly as onerous as with Saatchi 's other agencies 
That would would make it appealing to a network such as Interpublic that already has a healthy New York presence . 
Campbell-Mithun-Esty , for example , has had big problems at its New York office , but offers strong offices in other areas of the country , including Minneapolis and Chicago . 
Other Saatchi units include ad agency McCaffrey & McCall , which has the Mercedes account 
Among other things , the memo contends that Young & Rubicam gave false assurances that the investigation would n't uncover any information that would `` embarrass the government of Jamaica or the Jamaica Tourist Board . '' 
The memo attempts to remove the tourist board as far as possible from the agency , which pleaded innocent to the charges . 
The agency declined comment , but said it will continue work 
: American Suzuki Motor Corp. , Brea , Calif. , awarded its estimated $ 10 million to $ 30 million account to Asher\/Gould , Los Angeles . 
N W Ayer 's president and chief executive officer , Jerry J. Siano , said the agency is holding `` conversations '' about acquiring Zwiren Collins Karo & Trusk , a midsized Chicago agency 
In a statement , Grand Met said its recent `` growth and wider geographic spread '' made it necessary to create the new position . 
David Baltimore , who has just been named president of Rockefeller University , already knows what it 's like to go through life with `` Nobel laureate '' appended to one 's name . 
Both of Dr. Baltimore 's public faces have been on view the past few weeks 
Insofar as Mr. Dingell has a special interest in NIH and the institutions that receive its funding , the Rockefeller scientists were no doubt discomfited by Dr. Baltimore 's unflattering public opinion of this congressional patron 
John Dingell demagogues a David Baltimore , animal-rights activists do $ 3.5 million of damage to labs at the U.Cal-Davis , Meryl Streep decries the horrors of chemistry on talk shows , Jeremy Rifkin files lawsuits in federal court to thwart biotech experiments 
Scientists are mistaken who still think that the anti-science movement in this country is n't their concern 
Scientists need to understand that while they tend to believe their work is primarly about establishing new knowledge or doing good , today it is also about power 
Scientists need to understand that while they tend to believe their work is primarly about establishing new knowledge or doing good 
In a media-linked world , scientists may earn wide praise and even Nobels for their work 
In a media-linked world , scientists may earn wide praise and even Nobels for their work 
When a David Baltimore -- or the next target -- decides it is better to stand up to these forces , his fellow scientists would do well to recognize what is fundamentally at stake , and offer their public support 
While welcoming Nicholas McInnes 's Sept. 18 letter offering corrections to your `` World-Wide Tax Revolution '' table -LRB- editorial page , Aug. 29 -RRB- , I am surprised that he neglected other errors that , for some of us , strike close to home 
If the White House spots one , it intends to fire a veto at it 
Ducks are this season 's word for new taxes , under OMB Director Richard Darman 's formulation that `` if it looks like a duck , walks like a duck and quacks like a duck , it 's a duck 
Ducks are this season 's word for new taxes , under OMB Director Richard Darman 's formulation that `` if it looks like a duck , walks like a duck and quacks like a duck , it 's a duck . '' George Bush is quite clear : No new ducks . 
The bill gets signed into law 
The bill gets signed into law 
The Bush White House is breeding non-duck ducks the same way the Nixon White House did : It hops on an issue that is unopposable -- cleaner air , better treatment of the disabled , better child care . 
They 'd determine where parents could store their kids during the day 
The initial costs are said to be in the $ 2 billion a year range 
The administration claims that its Clean Air bill will cost businesses between $ 14 billion and $ 19 billion annually 
The administration claims that its Clean Air bill will cost businesses between $ 14 billion and $ 19 billion annually , but economist Michael Evans estimates that the costs for firms will actually be in the $ 60 billion a year range . 
The House bill also distorts economic efficiency in all sorts of perverse ways . 
For example , the administration proposal imposes extremely tough emissions standards on new power plants . 
For example , the administration proposal imposes extremely tough emissions standards on new power plants . 
The bill also imposes the California auto-emissions standards on all cars nationwide 
Nobody knows how many billions of dollars the Americans With Disabilities Act will cost 
Judges will write the real bill 
All this was recognized and documented in the succeeding years by economists , some of whom worked in the Reagan administration to lift this burden from the American people , states and local governments . 
Running for President in 1980 and 1988 , George Bush also persuasively diagnosed the economic stagnation of the 1970s . 
`` Government continues to inhibit the productivity of our citizenry and the international competitiveness of American business , '' the vice president declared 
In fact , during last year 's campaign , the entire nation constantly heard Mr. Bush tout his accomplishments as head of the Task Force on Regulatory Relief . 
By 1986 , the number of federal regulators was down to about 103,000 . 
Then it turned up 
Holding the dam on taxes is the most important task of the Bush presidency . 
What is even more ironic is that all over the world nations are learning that well-intentioned public programs often backfire . 
But while they are unloading these burdens , the United States is close to creating three more big ones 
Confidence in the pound is widely expected to take another sharp dive 
Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson 's restated commitment to a firm monetary policy has helped to prevent a freefall in sterling over the past week . 
`` If there is another bad trade number , there could be an awful lot of pressure 
Forecasts for the trade figures range widely 
Sanjay Joshi , European economist at Baring Brothers & Co. , said there is no sign that Britain 's manufacturing industry is transforming itself to boost exports . At the same time , he remains fairly pessimistic about the outlook for imports , given continued high consumer and capital goods inflows . 
However , Mr. Dillow said he believes that a reduction in raw material stockbuilding by industry could lead to a sharp drop in imports . Combined with at least some rebound in exports after August 's unexpected decline , the deficit could narrow to as little as # 1.3 billion . 
Mr. Briscoe , who also forecasts a # 1.3 billion current account gap , warns that even if the trade figures are bullish for sterling , the currency wo n't advance much 
Mr. Briscoe , who also forecasts a # 1.3 billion current account gap , warns that even if the trade figures are bullish for sterling , the currency wo n't advance much 
Mr. Briscoe , who also forecasts a # 1.3 billion current account gap , warns that even if the trade figures are bullish for sterling , the currency wo n't advance much because investors will want to see further evidence of the turnaround 
Mr. Briscoe , who also forecasts a # 1.3 billion current account gap , warns that even if the trade figures are bullish for sterling , the currency wo n't advance much because investors will want to see further evidence of the turnaround before adjusting positions . 
Forecasts for the trade figures range widely , but few economists expect the data to show a very marked improvement from the # 2 billion -LRB- $ 3.2 billion -RRB- deficit in the current account reported for August . 
In his Mansion House speech , Mr. Lawson warned that a further slowdown can be expected 
U.K. base rates are at their highest level in eight years . 
Mr. Dillow said the data show the economy `` is still quite strong 
Certainly , the chancellor has made it clear that he is prepared to increase interest rates again 
Certainly , the chancellor has made it clear that he is prepared to increase interest rates again if necessary to both ensure that a substantial slowdown does take place 
Analysts agree there is little holding sterling firm at the moment other than Mr. Lawson 's promise that rates will be pushed higher 
Analysts agree there is little holding sterling firm at the moment other than Mr. Lawson 's promise that rates will be pushed higher if necessary . 
Economists suggested that if the pound falls much below 2.90 marks , the government will be forced to increase rates to 16 % 
The dollar posted gains in quiet trading 
Late in the New York trading day , the dollar was quoted at 1.8578 marks , up from 1.8470 marks late Thursday in New York . 
In an Oct. 19 letter to A.P. Green 's board , East Rock said the offer is subject to the signing of a merger agreement by no later than Oct. 31 . 
East Rock Partners Limited Partnership said it proposed to acquire A.P. Green Industries Inc. for $ 40 a share . 
`` Demand has caught up with the supply of certain types of freight transportation 
Carriers could use their equipment more efficiently , leading to overcapacity they were eager to fill . Shippers cut about $ 35 billion from their annual , inter-city truck and rail costs , to about $ 150 billion , or about 6.4 % of gross national product , down from 8 % of GNP in 1981 . 
Now we are starting to see real freight-rate increases 
Consolidated Freightways plans to raise its rates 5.3 % late this year or early next year 
Truckers are `` trying to send signals that they need to stop the bloodletting , forget about market share and go for higher rates , '' said Michael Lloyd , an analyst at Salomon Bros . 
Air-freight carriers raised their rates for U.S. products going across the Pacific to Asia by about 20 % earlier this month . 
Ship companies carrying bulk commodities , such as oil , grain , coal and iron ore , have been able to increase their rates in the last couple of years . 
Ship companies carrying bulk commodities , such as oil , grain , coal and iron ore , have been able to increase their rates in the last couple of years . 
After the three members of the court introduced themselves , the chairman of the panel said : `` Go ahead and tell us what happened . We may ask questions as you go along , or we may wait until the end . '' 
We may ask questions 
We may ask questions as you go along 
When he was through , the court members asked many questions 
When he was through , the court members asked many questions 
Bob Stone is a fictional name 
The court is called the Management Appeals Committee , or just `` MAC 
Alter some details of this example 
Although corporate due process is practiced today in few companies -- perhaps 40 to 60 -- it is one of the fastest developing trends in industry 
It must be able to handle most of the complaints that can not be solved in the trenches by managers and their subordinates 
See that they know company personnel policy backwards and forwards 
Coach them in handling complaints 
In case managers and personnel specialists are unsuccessful and subordinates take their complaints to a company court or adjudicator , teach managers to accept reversals as a fact of business life 
An adjudicator system -- that is , an investigator who acts first as a fact-finder 
It wo n't do any good for anybody 
Most managements hesitate to go all out in advertising their due-process systems for fear of encouraging cranks and chronic soreheads to file complaints . 
Winners outpaced losers , 572 to 368 
`` Investors , especially dealers , do n't want to hold a position over the weekend 
In turmoil caused by the previous Friday 's plunge in New York stocks , the Nikkei marked a sharp 647.33-point fall Monday . 
The Tokyo market 's resiliency helped participants to regain confidence gradually 
The Nikkei continued to gain for the rest of the week , adding 1017.69 points in four days -- more than erasing Monday 's losses . 
Investors are still waiting to see how the U.S. government will decide on interest rates 
Sapporo gained 80 to 1,920 
Kajima advanced 40 to 2,120 
Fujisawa added 80 to 2,010 
The index finished 2.4 % under its close of 2233.9 the previous Friday 
The index finished 2.4 % under its close of 2233.9 the previous Friday , although it recouped some of the sharp losses staged early last week on the back of Wall Street 's fall . 
The FT-SE 100 largely remained within an 11-point range establshed within the first hour of trading 
They added that market-makers were largely sidelined 
British Airways rose initially 
In other active shares , Trusthouse Forte shed 10 to 294 on volume of 6.4 million shares after a Barclays De Zoete Wedd downgrading 
In other active shares , Trusthouse Forte shed 10 to 294 on volume of 6.4 million shares after a Barclays De Zoete Wedd downgrading , while Hillsdown Holdings , a food products concern , was boosted 2 to 271 
The U.S. is required to notify foreign dictators 
The existence of the guidelines has become known 
No notification was ever considered 
What 's more , both administration and congressional officials hint that the notification requirement is likely to be dropped from the guidelines on coup attempts that are being rewritten by the panel and the White House . 
Republican Sen. William Cohen of Maine , the panel 's vice chairman , said of the disclosure that `` a text torn out of context is a pretext 
Sen. Boren said the committee could n't defend itself by making the documents public 
Sen. Boren said the committee could n't defend itself by making the documents public because that would violate classification rules . 
But the chairman and other committee members stressed that the notification guideline was n't imposed on the White House by a meddling Congress . 
The guideline was n't a law , but a joint interpretation of how the U.S. might operate during foreign coups in light of the longstanding presidential order banning a U.S. role in assassinations . 
One administration official said notification was required 
One administration official said notification was required even if the U.S. `` gets wind '' of somebody else 's coup plans that seem likely to endanger a dictator 's life . 
Although the notification guideline was n't carried out in this month 's coup attempt , some administration officials argue that it may have led to hesitation and uncertainty on the part of U.S. intelligence and military operatives in Panama 
The issue came to a head last year 
The issue came to a head last year , officials recalled , partly because the Reagan administration had sought unsuccessfully to win committee approval of funding for new Panama coup efforts . 
Though the assassination ban is a White House order that Congress never voted on , the intelligence committees can exercise influence over its interpretation 
The administration has reacted to criticism that it mishandled the latest coup attempt by seeking to blame Congress for restrictions the White House said have hampered its freedom of action . 
However , last week Mr. Webster 's two top CIA deputies said congressional curbs had n't hampered the spy agency 's role in the coup attempt in Panama . 
The three men agreed to rewrite the guidelines , without changing the basic assassination ban , to clear up any ambiguities that may have hampered U.S. encouragement of coups against anti-American leaders . 
MUTUAL FUNDS ARRIVED IN THE U.S. during the Roaring Twenties 
MUTUAL FUNDS ARRIVED IN THE U.S. during the Roaring Twenties -LRB- they had been in Britain for a century -RRB- , but they did n't boom 
Besides creating a vehicle for investors , money market funds also helped rewrite banking regulations 
Besides creating a vehicle for investors 
It arrived 
When Dreyfus started the first advertising-backed retail fund in February 1974 , it was priced at $ 10 a share 
Dreyfus moved to the $ 1 price 
Eventually , the money funds ' success forced relaxation of curbs on bank interest rates to allow banks to offer competing yields . 
The owners of the defense and aerospace concern , which include three regional states , several industrial companies and banks , met Friday to discuss the final terms of the transaction , in which Daimler-Benz will acquire 50.01 % of 
The two states and the state of Bavaria still hold a majority in MBB 
The two states and the state of Bavaria still hold a majority in MBB , but their stake will fall to around 30 % 
The consensus view on real GNP , the total value of the nation 's output of goods and services adjusted for inflation , calls for a 2.3 % gain , down from the second quarter 's 2.5 % , according to MMS International , a unit of McGraw-Hill Inc. , New York . 
`` If that gets people excited , it could serve as an impetus to the fixed-income markets to lower their rates 
`` The stock market is sick 
`` The stock market is sick because profits are crumbling , '' says Michael K. Evans , president of Evans Economics Inc. , Washington . 
His estimate of 3.3 % for third-quarter GNP is higher than the consensus 
In August , personal income rose 0.4 % 
In May , Mr. Brierley 's stake shrank to 8.7 % 
When Rune Andersson set out to revive flagging Swedish conglomerate Trelleborg AB in the early 1980s , he spurned the advice of trendy management consultants 
`` All these consultants kept coming around telling us we should concentrate on high technology , electronics or biotechnology , and get out of mature basic industries , '' Mr. Andersson recalls . 
Yet under its 45-year-old president , Trelleborg moved aggressively into those unfashionable base industries -- first strengthening its existing rubber and plastics division 
It was a gutsy move for a little-known executive , fired after only two months as president of his previous company . 
If the whole market thinks what you 're doing is crazy you do n't have much competition 
On Tuesday , Trelleborg 's directors announced plans to spin off two big divisions -- minerals processing , and building and distribution -- as separately quoted companies on Stockholm 's Stock Exchange . 
The board had also been expected to approve a SKr1.5 billion international offering of new Trelleborg shares . 
But that share issue -- intended to make Trelleborg better known among international investors -- was postponed 
A family foundation set up by late founder Henry Dunker controls 59 % of Trelleborg 's voting shares outstanding . 
But the foundation bylaws require the entire Trelleborg stake to be sold in the open market 
That possibility had crept closer 
Most of the new additions were barely profitable 
Between 1985 and 1988 , sales multipled more than 10 times 
Many analysts expect Mr. Andersson , who owns 1.7 % of the company , to be named Trelleborg 's new chairman 
Many analysts expect Mr. Andersson , who owns 1.7 % of the company , to be named Trelleborg 's new chairman when Ernst Herslow steps down next year . 
`` Trelleborg is n't in the same league yet as mining giants such as RTZ Corp. or Anglo-American Corp. , '' says Mike Kurtanjek , a mining analyst at James Capel & Co. , London . 
Industry analysts suggest that the conquest of Falconbridge could vault Trelleborg from a regional Scandinavian success story to a world-class mining concern . 
`` Trelleborg is n't in the same league yet as mining giants such as RTZ Corp. or Anglo-American Corp. , '' says Mike Kurtanjek , a mining analyst at James Capel & Co. , London . `` But we certainly like what we 've seen so far . '' 
Booming metals prices have fueled Trelleborg 's recent profit surge , raising mining 's share of pretax profit to 68 % this year from a big loss two years earlier . 
Some analysts say Noranda would prefer to break up Falconbridge 
`` We 'd be reluctant to accept 50-50 ownership in a manufacturing company . 
`` If the 1980s were a decade of consumption , the '90s will be the investment decade 
`` If the 1980s were a decade of consumption , the '90s will be the investment decade , '' Mr. Andersson says . 
John Sculley , chairman and chief executive officer , credited the Macintosh SE\/30 and IIcx computers , introduced in the winter , for the brightened sales performance . 
Mr. Sculley also indicated that sagging margins , which dogged the company through most of 1989 , began to turn up in the fourth quarter 
Margins in the fiscal fourth quarter perked up , rising to 51 % from 49.2 % a year earlier . 
Gary J. Schantz , 44 years old , was named president and chief operating officer . Martin Schrager , 51 , who had been president , was named vice chairman . 
Separately , the board expanded to six members with the election of David L. Holewinski , a consultant . 
Terry L. Haines , formerly general manager of Canadian operations , was elected to the new position of vice president , North American sales , of this plastics concern . 
He remains an executive vice president 
Gordon Trimmer will succeed Mr. Haines as manager of Canadian operations 
It may not be toxic 
Basf AG said it moved its headquarters for Latin America to Mexico and the headquarters for the Asia\/Australia regional division to Singapore , effective Oct . 
`` It 's getting harder to sell , '' he mutters 
Manila is offering several major assets for the first time and is trying to conclude sales already arranged . 
Much of the money from the sales is earmarked for a multibillion-dollar agrarian-reform program . 
Rather than gathering momentum , the program is in danger of slowing even more 
The Asset Privatization Trust , the agency chiefly responsible for selling government-held properties , has recorded sales of more than $ 500 million 
The Asset Privatization Trust , the agency chiefly responsible for selling government-held properties , has recorded sales of more than $ 500 million since it began functioning in December 1986 . 
Dealing with the sales this month could be particularly challenging 
October 's troubles began 
At the end of the month , the agency again will offer the bank . 
But instead of a minimum price , only a target price will be established . 
The bank has a negative net worth , they say . 
October 's troubles began when the trust failed to sell a state-owned commercial bank , Associated Bank , for the minimum price of 671 million pesos -LRB- $ 31 million -RRB- . 
The price will depend on how much Picop shares fetch on the local stock market . 
As it stands now , the government would continue to hold 45 % of Picop 
-LRB- About 7.5 % of Picop is publicly traded 
Mr. Garcia acknowledges the problem and says the Asset Trust will study why the bidding failed 
Mr. Garcia acknowledges the problem and says the Asset Trust will study why the bidding failed and what changes the agency may be able to offer . 
Even though the government would retain the 45 % stake in Picop , critics have accused the trust of selling out to foreigners 
The carrier has valuable trans-Pacific and Asian routes 
Webster has 3.5 million shares outstanding and Eagle 2.6 million . In American Stock Exchange composite trading Friday , Eagle shares rose 12.5 cents to $ 11 . In national over-the-counter trading , Webster shares fell 25 cents to $ 12.375 . 
In an interview , James Smith said the banks ' `` markets are contiguous 
Having said that , we must caution against an apparent tendency to overstate the case . 
In the same sentence he contradicts himself 
How can a company be considered `` privatized 
-LRB- True , the Mexican government has granted `` control '' over the airline to a new private consortium 
Regrettably , too , Mr. Ortiz resorts to the familiar `` numbers game 
Regrettably , too , Mr. Ortiz resorts to the familiar `` numbers game '' when he boasts that `` fewer than 392 -LCB- state enterprises -RCB- currently remain in the public sector , '' down from the `` 1,155 public entities that existed in 1982 . 
'' But the enterprises still in state hands include the biggest and most economically powerful ones in Mexico 
'' But the enterprises still in state hands include the biggest and most economically powerful ones in Mexico ; indeed , they virtually constitute the economic infrastructure . 
They are officially considered `` strategic 
In language that sidesteps the issue , Mr. Ortiz writes , `` The divestiture of nonpriority and nonstrategic public enterprises is an essential element of President Carlos Salinas 's plan to modernize Mexico 's economy ... . '' 
Yet clearly , modernization must embrace its key industries 
In language that sidesteps the issue , Mr. Ortiz writes , `` The divestiture of nonpriority and nonstrategic public enterprises is an essential element of President Carlos Salinas 's plan to modernize Mexico 's economy ... . '' 
The board of this Ponce , Puerto Rico concern voted to suspend payment of its quarterly of 11 cents a share for the third quarter . 
The third-largest thrift institution in Puerto Rico also said it expects a return to profitability in the third quarter 
A labor-management group is preparing a revised buy-out bid for United Airlines parent UAL Corp. that would transfer majority ownership to employees 
The group has been discussing a proposal valued in a range of $ 225 to $ 240 a share , or $ 5.09 billion to $ 5.42 billion . 
But to avoid the risk of rejection , the group does n't plan to submit the plan formally at a UAL board meeting today . 
People familiar with the company say the board is n't likely to give quick approval to any offer substantially below the $ 300-a-share , $ 6.79 billion buy-out bid that collapsed last week 
People familiar with the company say the board is n't likely to give quick approval to any offer substantially below the $ 300-a-share , $ 6.79 billion buy-out bid that collapsed last week after banks would n't raise needed loans 
People familiar with the company say the board is n't likely to give quick approval to any offer substantially below the $ 300-a-share , $ 6.79 billion buy-out bid that collapsed last week 
In composite trading Friday on the New York Stock Exchange , UAL closed at $ 168.50 a share , down $ 21.625 . 
But the pilots union , which has been pushing for a takeover since 1987 , appears to be pressing ahead with the revised bid to avoid further loss of momentum 
Although the bidding group has n't had time to develop its latest idea fully or to discuss it with banks , it believes bank financing could be obtained 
After the collapse of the last effort , the group does n't plan to make any formal proposal without binding commitments from banks covering the entire amount to be borrowed 
Under the type of transaction being discussed , the pilot-management group would borrow several billion dollars from banks 
Under the type of transaction being discussed , the pilot-management group would borrow several billion dollars from banks that could then be used to finance a cash payment to current holders . 
Those current holders would also receive minority interests in the new company . 
The new structure would be similar to a recapitalization in which holders get a special dividend 
It was n't clear how the ownership would stack up under the new plan 
Management 's total could be reduced 
Although the pilots are expected to continue to pursue the bid , UAL Chairman Stephen Wolf may be asked to withdraw from the buy-out effort , at least temporarily , and to return to running the company full time 
The board could eventually come under some pressure to sell the company 
The board could eventually come under some pressure to sell the company because its members can be ousted by a majority shareholder vote 
The labor-management buy-out group plans to keep its offer on the table in an apparent attempt to maintain its bargaining position with the board . 
Mr. Davis had paid $ 6 million for Citicorp 's backing of his last bid . 
But Citicorp has lost some credibility 
Mr. Davis had paid $ 6 million for Citicorp 's backing of his last bid . 
On Friday , British Air issued a statement saying it `` does not intend to participate in any new deal for the acquisition of UAL in the foreseeable future . '' 
However , several people said that British Air might yet rejoin the bidding group 
However , several people said that British Air might yet rejoin the bidding group and that the carrier made the statement to answer questions from British regulators about how it plans to use proceeds of a securities offering previously earmarked for the UAL buy-out . 
Also late last week , UAL flight attendants agreed to participate with the pilots in crafting a revised offer . 
Also late last week , UAL flight attendants agreed to participate with the pilots in crafting a revised offer . 
Speculation has also arisen that the UAL executive most closely identified with the failure to gain bank financing , chief financial officer John Pope , may come under pressure to resign . 
The features will focus on `` parenting , family health and nutrition , and financial management , '' and will carry 30 seconds of advertising . 
In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission , Lep Group said a possible course of action may include acquiring some or all of the Profit Systems shares it does n't already own . 
The nation 's holdings of foreign currencies increased $ 5.67 billion in September to $ 39.08 billion 
U.S. holdings of IMF special drawing rights last month rose $ 247 million , to $ 9.49 billion 
Mr. Conway , 42 years old , was elected chairman , president and chief executive of Manhattan Life Insurance Co. and president and chief executive of Manhattan National Life Insurance Co . 
The new proposal , which would transfer majority ownership of United Air 's parent to employees and leave some stock in public hands , would be valued at $ 225 to $ 240 a share , or as much as $ 5.42 billion . 
Ford and Saab ended talks about a possible alliance 
Most bond prices fell 
OPEC officials worry that prices could collapse a few months from now 
The proposals , from suitors including Interpublic Group , come 
The FDA requested the recall of Quantum 's mioxidil tablets , chlorazepate dipotassium tablets and meclofenamate sodium capsules 
Last month , American Home Products said it was suspending production and distribution of all 21 of Quantum 's generic drug products pending the completion of an exhaustive internal audit . 
Year-earlier per-share results are n't applicable 
While the company said chemical margins continued to worsen this quarter , costs will be lower 
While the company said chemical margins continued to worsen this quarter , costs will be lower 
Four other unions have yet to vote 
Members of the largest union , representing 1,700 workers , voted in favor of the pact yesterday . 
LEBANESE LAWMAKERS APPROVED a peace plan 
Lebanon 's Parliament passed the power-sharing accord to end the country 's 14-year-old conflict 
As rescuers pressed their efforts after finding a survivor in a collapsed freeway , the San Francisco Bay area girded for hundreds of thousands of commuters seeking to avoid routes ravaged by last Tuesday 's tremor 
As rescuers pressed their efforts 
The existence of the policy became known 
Rep. Garcia and his wife were found guilty by a federal jury in New York of extorting $ 76,000 from Wedtech Corp. in return for official acts by the New York Democrat . 
The Boeing 727 , en route to Honduras from Costa Rica via Nicaragua , smashed into the hills outside Tegucigalpa 
The U.S. and Israel have been holding what an aide to Prime Minister Shamir called intense telephone negotiations in an effort to bridge differences over Mideast peace moves . 
The Labor Party , meanwhile , threatened to support a parliamentary motion to topple the coalition 
The Sandinista government and the U.S.-backed insurgents agreed in March to suspend offensive operations 
Telephone-operations quarterly profit increased 9 % to $ 84 million from $ 77 million 
Customer-access lines increased at an annualized rate of about 4 % 
`` You have to have clear feelings about someone 
Mr. Krenz does n't seem to be the knee-jerk hardliner many initially thought he was 
Mr. Krenz does n't seem to be the knee-jerk hardliner many initially thought he was when the 52-year-old Politburo member was selected last week to succeed Erich Honecker . 
On Thursday , a day after he took office , East German television broke into regular programming to launch a talk show in which viewers call in questions for a panel of officials to answer 
On Thursday , a day after he took office , East German television broke into regular programming to launch a talk show in which viewers call in questions for a panel of officials to answer . 
Other changes , including easing restrictions on travel for East Germans , are expected . 
But whether such moves can win back the confidence of East Germans , who have taken to the streets by the thousands in recent weeks to demand democratic changes , depends largely on whether they feel they can trust Mr. Krenz . 
Mr. Krenz is not only closely identified with his mentor , Mr. Honecker 
Although Mr. Krenz is dedicated to East Germany 's conservative vein of communism , there is much about his style that sets him apart from his party comrades 
Unlike Mr. Honecker , who tended to lecture people about socialist values , Mr. Krenz enjoys asking questions . 
Indeed , one of his first actions as leader was to visit a gritty machine factory on the outskirts of Berlin and wander among the workers -- a la Gorbachev . 
`` He 's a very tough man , but one who 's also open to arguments , '' adds an aide to West German Chancellor Helmut Kohl . 
Barbara Donovan , an expert on East Germany at Radio Free Europe in Munich , says Mr. Krenz may project a smooth image 
Even if he is , she adds , he appears to have only limited room for maneuver within the Communist Party 's ruling Politburo 
`` He does n't have any honeymoon period , '' says a Western diplomat based in East Berlin . 
`` But if he 's sharp and quick , he has a chance 
The East German economy is strong compared with other East bloc nations . 
`` Either he was n't being real in the past 
`` I have to come here to read the walls 
East Germans remember a comment a few years ago by Kurt Hager , the government 's top ideologist , that just because a neighbor hangs new wallpaper , there 's no reason to change your own 
`` It 's hard to know whether it was intended to be funny 
The list of laboratories claiming to be producing inexplicable amounts of heat from `` cold fusion '' experiments is slowly growing . 
Neither of the two chemists whose Utah experiments triggered the cold fusion uproar , Martin Fleischmann and B. Stanley Pons , were at the meeting . 
When an electric current is applied to the palladium and platinum electrodes , the heavy water did begin to break up , or dissociate 
Ordinarily the electrolysis , or breakup , of the water would consume almost all of the electrical energy . 
Ordinarily the electrolysis , or breakup , of the water would consume almost all of the electrical energy . 
Because they also detected tritium and indications of nuclear radiation , they asserted that the `` excess '' heat energy must be coming from energy released by the nuclear fusion of deuterium atoms inside the palladium rod 
But Messrs. Fleischmann and Pons said their experiments also produced large amounts of heat . 
But Messrs. Fleischmann and Pons said their experiments also produced large amounts of heat . 
As of last weekend , a dozen labs also have reported measuring `` excess '' heat from similar electrolytic experiments 
Mr. Oriani said his skepticism of the Utah claims was initially confirmed 
Mr. Oriani said his skepticism of the Utah claims was initially confirmed when his first experiments last spring failed to produce results . 
Mr. Oriani said his skepticism of the Utah claims was initially confirmed when his first experiments last spring failed to produce results . 
When it was restarted , heat output `` really took off '' and produced excess heat for several hours before dying down 
When it was restarted , heat output `` really took off '' and produced excess heat for several hours 
It would go along doing nothing but dissociating the heavy water 
It would go along doing nothing but dissociating the heavy water 
It would go along doing nothing but dissociating the heavy water and then at totally unpredictable times , it would begin producing excess heat for as long as 10 or 11 hours 
Mr. Oriani said the heat bursts were too large and too long to be explained by the sudden release of energy that might have slowly accumulated during the experiments ' quiescent times , as some scientists have suggested . 
The bursts often occur 
Typically , the input energy ranges from a third of a watt to one watt 
There is n't any way to continuously measure the amount of tritium in the heavy water 
Messrs. Fleischmann and Pons initially reported indirect evidence of neutrons being produced in their experiment 
A number of times they detected neutrons in one , sometimes two , of the three detectors 
A number of times they detected neutrons in one , sometimes two , of the three detectors , but only once during 411 hours of the experiment did they detect a neutron burst in all three detectors 
Shimson Gottesfeld of Los Alamos National Laboratory said researchers there detected a burst of neutrons from an early cold fusion experiment last April but decided not to announce it 
In subsequent experiments , one of two neutron detectors occasionally indicated a burst of neutrons 
At the Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory in California , new experiments indicated that the lithium added to the heavy water 
The rates , which take effect Jan. 2 , include a 4 % increase for national edition advertising . 
Advertising rates for the Eastern , Midwest , Western and Southwest editions will increase an average 5.5 % 
Rates for The Asian Wall Street Journal , published and printed in Hong Kong 
Dow Jones & Co. announced Wall Street Journal advertising rates for 1990 . 
Reflecting the impact of lower semiconductor prices and cuts in defense spending , Texas Instruments Inc. said third-quarter net income fell 31 % 
Jerry Junkins , chairman , president and chief executive officer , said sluggish consumer-electronics sales reduced demand for semiconductors . That , coupled with lower semiconductor prices and higher semiconductor-depreciation expense , contributed to the decline in sales and profit . 
That , coupled with lower semiconductor prices and higher semiconductor-depreciation expense , contributed to the decline in sales and profit . 
Jerry Junkins , chairman , president and chief executive officer , said sluggish consumer-electronics sales reduced demand for semiconductors . That , coupled with lower semiconductor prices and higher semiconductor-depreciation expense , contributed to the decline in sales and profit . In addition , cost increases related to fixed-price defense contracts and a $ 10 million charge to reduce the work force of Texas Instruments ' defense-electronics division also reduced net . 
`` We expect near-term sluggishness in the electronics market 
`` We expect near-term sluggishness in the electronics market , '' he said , `` and we will take ongoing cost-reduction actions as necessary to keep operations aligned with demand . '' 
It is an independent phone company with a service area of 15,000 square miles in southwest New Mexico . 
While some 100 million ounces of silver once held by Mr. Hunt and Middle Eastern associates are n't hanging over the market anymore , the price surge of 1979-80 precipitated an expansion of mine production and scrap recovery and encouraged silver consumers to economize on silver use 
While some 100 million ounces of silver once held by Mr. Hunt and Middle Eastern associates are n't hanging over the market anymore , the price surge of 1979-80 precipitated an expansion of mine production and scrap recovery and encouraged silver consumers to economize on silver use , Mr. Edgar says . 
Photographic developers , for example , bought equipment to recover silver from spent photographs , negatives and processing solutions . 
Photographic developers , for example , bought equipment to recover silver from spent photographs , negatives and processing solutions . Meanwhile , the photographic industry , which accounts for 44 % of silver consumption , continues to look for substitutes . Japanese and U.S. photographic firms are beginning to produce electronic cameras and X-rays that do n't require silver , dealers say . 
Although prices rallied briefly following the tumble on world stock markets earlier this month and the related decline of the dollar , precious metals are out of favor for the moment because of high interest rates and a determination by industrial nations to curb inflation 
Although prices rallied briefly following the tumble on world stock markets earlier this month and the related decline of the dollar , precious metals are out of favor for the moment because of high interest rates and a determination by industrial nations to curb inflation , dealers say . 
Some analysts contend that silver is cheap 
Scrap merchants are converting smaller quantities of metal into silver 
A further decline in prices will lead to mine production cuts in the U.S. , he says . Scrap merchants are converting smaller quantities of metal into silver , while low prices are discouraging exports from India and the Soviet Union . 
A further decline in prices will lead to mine production cuts in the U.S. , he says . 
Japanese demand grew by 70 % in the first half of this year 
A huge silver stockpile at exchanges , refiners , consuming industries and government warehouses of at least 617 million ounces is the market depressant , says Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. in a report . 
`` Silver production is also in an inexorable upward trend , '' Ms. O'Connell says . 
Moreover , while Asian and Middle Eastern investors hoard gold and help underpin its price , silver does n't have the same mystique 
Investors have gotten burned on silver so often that they are far more partial to gold , says Urs Seiler , senior vice president at Union Bank of Switzerland . 
Yet if gold prices improve , silver prices could rally sharply 
Yet if gold prices improve , silver prices could rally sharply , he says . 
After the close of trading Friday , the Agriculture Department reported that feedlots in the 13 biggest ranch states held 8.06 million cattle on Oct. 1 , down 6 % from that date a year earlier 
Feedlots fatten young cattle for slaughter 
In the 1988 quarter , many farmers were forced to sell their cattle to feedlot operators 
In the 1988 quarter , many farmers were forced to sell their cattle to feedlot operators because the drought dried out the pasture on their ranches . 
The number of cattle moving onto feedlots in the recent quarter was also lower 
The government reported that the number of young cattle placed on feedlots during the quarter dropped 5 % compared with the year-earlier quarter . 
Others said that the drop continued the downward correction that 's been due in the petroleum pits 
Copper prices fell sharply Friday afternoon . 
A technical analyst said there were a number of stop-loss orders under that level that were touched off 
That brought in considerable fund selling , which continued 
`` In general , it was a bearish close , '' said Ben Hanauer , a copper trader at Rudolph Wolff & Co. , a major commodities trading and brokerage firm . 
But whether this price break has implications for this week , he said , `` we will know more 
Another analyst said he expected LME inventories to be down by about 15,000 tons 
Bernard Savaiko , senior commodities analyst at PaineWebber Inc. , said that when traders saw the market was n't reacting positively to the forecasts of lower LME stocks , they perceived a bearish sign 
Bernard Savaiko , senior commodities analyst at PaineWebber Inc. , said that when traders saw the market was n't reacting positively to the forecasts of lower LME stocks , they perceived a bearish sign . 
If a machine has a big computing task , Task Broker asks other computers in the network for `` bids '' on the job 
If a machine has a big computing task , Task Broker asks other computers in the network for `` bids '' on the job . 
The new Hewlett-Packard program , said analyst John McCarthy at Forrester Research Inc. , a computer-market research company , `` is a key building block 
In today 's computer networks , some machines often sit idle 
The Task Broker differs from other programs that spread computing tasks around a network . 
A previously available program called Network Computing System , developed by Hewlett-Packard 's Apollo division , for instance , takes a task and splits it up into parts , divvying up those parts to several computers in a network for simultaneous processing . 
Applications wo n't have to be rewritten to work with Task Broker 
`` When elephants start fighting , ants get killed 
As hamburger and pizza outlets saturate one area after another , franchisers are struggling desperately for market share , slashing prices and stepping up costly promotions 
The chains `` used to offer discounts during winter when business was slow 
Though Charisma 's sales are up slightly this year , Mr. Harty says profits will be flat or lower 
Though Charisma 's sales are up slightly this year , Mr. Harty says profits will be flat or lower . 
Until recently , the huge fast-food industry , with sales of about $ 60.1 billion last year , kept price-skirmishing to a minimum . 
The situation was further aggravated early this month , when McDonald 's set plans to heat up the discounting by offering coupons . 
Alan D'Agosto , president of Panda 's Inc. , an operator of Arby 's restaurants in Omaha , says : `` All we 're doing is keeping the customers coming 
With fast-food outlets on every corner , he , like many , does n't think he has a choice in the price war : `` Our customers say that they wo n't go into a fast-food store 
If the battle continues much longer , many fast-food businesses will close or merge 
With the market so crowded , says a spokesman for Wendy 's in Columbus , Ohio , `` If you 're doing well , you 're doing well at someone else 's expense 
According to Mr. Rohs , inflation-adjusted , same-store sales at company-owned Wendy 's units in the U.S. have trailed year-earlier levels throughout 1989 , except for August . 
Profit margins at company-owned McDonald 's outlets in the U.S. `` are holding up quite nicely , '' says Mr. Greenberg . 
Franchisees ca n't be forced to go along with a franchiser 's discounting . 
But once a franchisee agrees to a promotional program , the franchiser can demand full participation to the very end 
Says Mr. Riese of National Restaurants : `` If you resisted on prices , maybe you would never get that telephone call about a new franchise 
The percent difference compares actual profit with the 30-day estimate where at least three analysts have issues forecasts in the past 30 days . 
The percent difference compares actual profit with the 30-day estimate where at least three analysts have issues forecasts in the past 30 days . 
For years , the canceled checks of a small number of well-known baseball players have been bought and sold . 
`` Maybe three years ago , there were a lot of -LCB- Ty -RCB- Cobbs in the hobby 
For years , the canceled checks of a small number of well-known baseball players have been bought and sold . But these players were dead . 
`` Maybe I 'm a little stuffy 
`` Who knows how much they 'll be worth 100 years from now ? '' 
`` He has good investments . '' 
And Mr. Jackson probably has opened new checking accounts , too . 
`` There 's too much capacity , '' contended Charles Bradford , an analyst with Merrill Lynch Capital Markets . 
The hot-dipped galvanized segment is one of the fastest-growing and most profitable segments of the steel market , coveted by all major integrated steelmakers wanting to maintain an edge over smaller minimills and reconstructed mills -- those spun off to employees . 
For the first eight months of 1989 , analysts say shipments of hot-dipped galvanized steel increased about 8 % from a year earlier 
USX already has six lines in existing plants producing hot-dipped galvanized steel 
USX already has six lines in existing plants producing hot-dipped galvanized steel , but this marks the first so-called greenfield plant for such production . 
USX Corp. and its Japanese partner , Kobe Steel Ltd. , agreed to form a joint venture to build a new plant to produce hot-dipped galvanized sheet products , mainly for the automotive market . 
ONCE YOU MAKE UP your mind about an investment , the rest is easy , right 
There are all sorts of ways to give buy and sell instructions to a broker -- and just as many ways to get burned 
There are all sorts of ways to give buy and sell instructions to a broker -- and just as many ways to get burned if you do n't know what you 're doing . 
Two things to keep in mind : Not all exchanges accept every type of order . 
And even when a specific order is acceptable to an exchange , a brokerage firm can refuse to enter it for a customer 
Market Order : This is probably the most widely used order -- and the one most open to abuse by unscrupulous floor brokers 
It 's like saying , `` get me in now 
With a market order , an investor tells a broker to buy or sell `` at the market . '' 
For example , if wheat is being offered at $ 4.065 and bid at $ 4.060 , a market order to buy would be filled at the higher price and a market order to sell at the lower price 
A recent indictment alleges that some floor brokers at the two largest Chicago commodity exchanges used market orders to fill customers ' orders at unfavorable prices by arranging trades with fellow brokers . 
Limit Order : Limit orders are used 
One risk : Investors may regret the restriction 
One risk : Investors may regret the restriction if the stock reaches 54 
Unless the market goes at least one tick -LRB- the smallest price increment permitted -RRB- beyond the limit price , investors are n't assured of having their orders filled because there may not be sufficient trading volume to permit filling it at the specified price 
Unless the market goes at least one tick -LRB- the smallest price increment permitted -RRB- beyond the limit price , investors are n't assured of having their orders filled 
Stop Order : Stop orders tell a floor broker to buy or sell an investment 
Once the price reaches that level , a stop order turns into a market order , and the order is filled at whatever price the broker can get 
Once the price reaches that level , a stop order turns into a market order 
Stop orders are sometimes called `` stop-loss '' orders 
While stop orders sound similar to limit orders , there is a difference 
While stop orders sound similar to limit orders , there is a difference : Sell stops must be entered at a price below the current market price 
While stop orders sound similar to limit orders , there is a difference : Sell stops must be entered at a price below the current market price and buy stops above . 
In contrast , sell limit orders must be placed above the market price 
An investor who may have placed a stop-loss order at $ 90 under a stock that was trading at $ 100 a share on the Friday before the crash was stunned to discover that the order was filled at $ 75 
Stop-Limit Order : Stop-limit orders turn into limit orders 
Unlike stop orders -- which are filled at the market price 
If it ca n't be made at that price , it does n't get filled 
Investors who wish to be out of a position , without the risk of receiving a worse-than-expected price from a market order , may use this type of order to specify the price at which the order must be filled . 
But if the market moves quickly enough , it may be impossible for the broker to carry out the order 
But if the market moves quickly enough , it may be impossible for the broker to carry out the order 
Market-If-Touched Order : Market-if-touched orders are like stop orders in that they become market orders 
Market-If-Touched Order : Market-if-touched orders are like stop orders in that they become market orders if a specified price is reached . 
However , unlike a buy-stop order , a buy market-if-touched order is entered at a price below the current price 
As soon as the market trades at the specified price the floor broker will fill it at the best possible price 
It instructs a broker to buy or sell an investment at the specified price or better . 
But if the investment ca n't be bought or sold immediately , the order is automatically canceled 
Gregory Bessemer , who came in second in the stock division of the recently completed U.S. Trading Championship , says he uses fill-or-kill orders almost exclusively 
`` If they do n't fill it immediately 
It is a market order that allows floor brokers to take more time to buy or sell an investment 
One-Cancels-The-Other Order : This is really two orders in one , generally for the same security or commodity , instructing floor brokers to fill whichever order they can first 
`` On the close '' can be added to many types of orders . 
On Oct. 19 , 1987 , some investors learned the consequences of entering `` good-til-canceled limit orders 
Investors who change their mind about buying or selling 
IN SIZING UP the risks of stock-market investments , there 's probably no starting place better than `` beta . '' 
The beta of the broad market , typically defined as the Standard & Poor 's 500-stock index , is always 1.0 . 
Go with high-beta stocks to get the biggest payoff from a bet on a bull market . Cautious investors should generally go with stocks that have low betas . 
Beta figures are widely available and easy to interpret . 
`` There is risk that is not associated with market moves 
`` There is risk that is not associated with market moves , and the beta does n't tell you the magnitude of that . '' 
That `` business '' risk is very significant for an investor with only a few stocks 
In particular , beta does n't measure the company - and industry-specific risk associated with an individual stock . 
Beta is also a poor indicator of the risk in stock groups that march to their own drummer . 
In particular , the prices of gold and other precious-metals stocks shoot up and down 
In particular , the prices of gold and other precious-metals stocks shoot up and down , but the stocks tend to have low betas 
`` In reality it 's very volatile 
When you think of the words `` risk '' and `` investment , '' what 's the specific peril that comes to mind 
If you 're like most people , you said it 's a holding that goes completely sour -- maybe a bond that defaults or a stock whose value disappears in a bankruptcy proceeding 
`` People tend to see risk primarily on that one dimension , '' says Timothy Kochis , national director of personal financial planning for accountants Deloitte , Haskins & Sells . 
Risk wears many disguises 
Risk wears many disguises , and investments that are low in one type of obvious risk can be distressingly high in other , less obvious kinds . 
U.S. Treasury bonds , for example , are supersafe 
U.S. Treasury bonds , for example , are supersafe when it comes to returning money at maturity . 
Risk wears many disguises , and investments that are low in one type of obvious risk can be distressingly high in other , less obvious kinds . 
When financial professionals measure risk mathematically , they usually focus on the volatility of short-term returns 
When financial professionals measure risk mathematically , they usually focus on the volatility of short-term returns . 
Stocks are much riskier than Treasury bills , for example 
When financial professionals measure risk mathematically , they usually focus on the volatility of short-term returns . 
But investors who are preoccupied with short-term fluctuations may be paying too little attention to another big risk -- not generating enough money to meet long-term financial and life-style goals . 
For instance , some investors have sworn off stocks since the 1987 market crash ; last Friday 's debacle only reinforced those feelings . 
Risk wears many disguises , and investments that are low in one type of obvious risk can be distressingly high in other , less obvious kinds . 
As a result , financial advisers say they take several steps 
They estimate the return a person 's current portfolio is likely to generate over time , along with a standard deviation that suggests how much the return will vary year by year . They try to figure out the long-term results the person needs to meet major goals . 
The portfolios of two hypothetical families , one a couple at retirement age and another a two-income couple at age 45 , illustrate several types of risk that investors need to consider . 
For instance , the insured municipal bonds that dominate the older couple 's portfolio were probably selected in large part for their low repayment risk . 
The younger couple 's stockholdings involve more risk than a diversified stock portfolio 
Note that the younger couple 's portfolio has a higher expected annual return , 10.1 % vs. 8.8 % , as calculated by Seidman Financial Services , which is the financial-planning affiliate of BDO Seidman . 
-LRB- Here 's how to interpret a standard deviation figure : Take the expected return 
-LRB- Here 's how to interpret a standard deviation figure : Take the expected return and add one standard deviation to it . 
Then take the expected return 
In two of three years , the actual result should fall within that range 
Then take the expected return and subtract one standard deviation . 
Of course , the greater volatility of the younger couple 's portfolio does n't necessarily mean those investments are riskier in terms of meeting the holders ' long-term goals . 
Indeed , the older couple 's portfolio could actually be riskier in that sense 
`` They may feel emotionally secure now 
`` They may feel emotionally secure now because they are not heavily in the stock market , '' says John H. Cammack , a financial planner with Alexandra Armstrong Advisors Inc. in Washington . 
When it comes to investing , trying to weigh risk and reward can seem like throwing darts blindfolded 
Looking to the past can provide some clues . 
Looking to the past can provide some clues . 
But while history can suggest what is reasonable to expect there 's no guarantee that the past will repeat itself 
But while history can suggest what is reasonable to expect there 's no guarantee that the past will repeat itself . 
For instance , some analysts believe bond returns and volatility have moved permanently closer to those of the stock market . 
It meant to convey our hope that the Senator and other members of the congressional left are broadening their dislike of Noriega to include other notorious Central American drug runners . 
Capital has been democratized 
THROUGHOUT THE 1980s , investors have been looking for creative alternatives to traditional modes of financial planning . 
This is particularly good news for those who hate risk , who are incapable of doing extensive amounts of planning 
This is particularly good news for those who hate risk , who are incapable of doing extensive amounts of planning and who refuse to see their life styles hurt in any way . 
Like all Americans seeking chronic prosperity , I do find it necessary to plunge certain funds into conservative monetary tools 
Like all Americans seeking chronic prosperity , I do find it necessary to plunge certain funds into conservative monetary tools , if only to assuage my father-in-law , who believes in such things . 
Return on this fine portfolio has been modest 
Oil-related properties suffered a huge decline 
Oil-related properties suffered a huge decline until I divested myself of all such stocks in 1985 , at which point the industry , while not lighting up any Christmas trees , began a slow recovery 
Oil-related properties suffered a huge decline until I divested myself of all such stocks in 1985 , at which point the industry , while not lighting up any Christmas trees , began a slow recovery . 
Likewise , mutual funds remained relatively flat 
Concerned for her state of mind , I dropped them 
Perhaps most dramatic was the performance of the metropolitan New York real-estate market , which was booming 
We 've all got money to spend , some of it clearly disposable 
Your priorities may be different 
Expansion of my living space has produced an obvious need for maintenance and construction of suitable lawns , shrubs and bushes fitting to its suburban locale . 
At the same time , my share in a wide variety of entertainment pursuits has given perhaps the most dramatic demonstration of the benefits of creative personal financial planning . 
My kids ' college education looms as perhaps the greatest future opportunity for spending 
My kids ' college education looms as perhaps the greatest future opportunity for spending , although I 'll probably have to cash in their toy portfolio to take advantage of it . 
You can , too 
You can , too , if you , like me , refuse to bite the bullet . 
So go out there 
WHEN JAMES SCHWARTZ was just a lad his father gave him a piece of career advice 
It should be noted that Mr. Schwartz , who operates out of Englewood , Colo. , is a puckish sort who likes to give his colleagues the needle . 
Though it 's probably safe to assume that the majority of financial planners are honest and even reasonably competent , the fact remains that , as one wag puts it , `` anybody who can fog a mirror '' can call himself a financial planner 
Planners now influence the investment of several hundred billion dollars 
There is no effective regulation of planners , no accepted standard for admission into their ranks -- a dog got into one trade group -- no way to assess their performance , no way even to know how many of them there are -LRB- estimates range from 60,000 to 450,000 -RRB- . 
Alarmed , state and federal authorities are trying to devise ways to certify and regulate planners . 
Nobody can estimate the toll 
She concedes that such a position is `` unfair '' to the thousands of conscientious and qualified people plying the trade 
She says her group used to give tips on selecting planners -- check educational and experience credentials , consult regulators and Better Business Bureaus -- but found that even some people who took these steps `` were still getting ripped off . '' 
The Tax Reform Act of 1986 , which eliminated many tax shelters peddled by planners , and the stock market crash the next year did cause a sharp slump in such demand 
The Tax Reform Act of 1986 , which eliminated many tax shelters peddled by planners , and the stock market crash the next year did cause a sharp slump in such demand , and many planners had to make an unplanned exit from the business . 
But membership in the International Association of Financial Planners -LRB- IAFP -RRB- , the industry 's biggest trade group , is still nearly triple what it was in 1980 
An estimated 10 million Americans are now using financial planners 
The SEC has only about 200 staffers assigned to keep tabs on investment advisers -- about the same as in 1980 
The sheer number of planners makes the business extremely difficult , if not impossible , to regulate . 
When the IAFP recently assembled other industry groups to discuss common standards that might be applied to planners , Mr. Gargan 's group was excluded 
That may be 
That may be because Mr. Gargan , smarting at what he considered slurs on his membership standards made by the rival group , enrolled his dog , Beauregard , as a member of the IAFP . 
In its notice of action , the attorney general said the company had promised to put clients into `` balanced '' investment portfolios 
In practice , the attorney general alleged in an affidavit , if an investor had access to cash `` the chances of being turned down by First Meridian were about as probable as being rejected by the Book-of-the-Month Club 
In practice , the attorney general alleged in an affidavit , if an investor had access to cash `` the chances of being turned down by First Meridian were about as probable as being rejected by the Book-of-the-Month Club . '' 
And , the attorney general added , First Meridian 's president , Roger V. Sala , portrayed himself as a `` financial expert 
As for Mr. Sala 's qualifications , `` the snooty attorneys for the state of New York decided Mr. Sala was n't qualified 
One suit , filed by more than three dozen investors , charges that Mr. Peterson misused much of the $ 9.7 million put into a limited partnership that he operated and promoted , spending some of it to pay his own legal bills and to invest in other companies in which he had an interest . 
The other suit was filed by two men in a dispute over $ 100,000 investments each says he made with Mr. Peterson as part of an effort to purchase the Bank of Scottsdale in Scottsdale , Ariz . 
In affidavits , each plaintiff claims Mr. Peterson promised the bank purchase would be completed by the end of 1988 
Wearing a business suit and western-style hat and boots , he opened up his briefcase and dumped $ 1 million in cash on a table in front of the directors , says Myron Diebel , the bank 's president . 
Bank officials , however , showed him the door 
Mr. Peterson declines to comment on specific allegations in the two suits , saying he prefers to save such responses for court . 
Mr. Peterson says the suits against him are less a measure of his work than they are a `` sign of the times '' in which people generally are more prone to sue . 
Other cases go to show that an old saw still applies : If it sounds too good to be true , it probably is 
Other cases go to show that an old saw still applies : If it sounds too good to be true , it probably is . 
Certificates of deposit do n't pay 23 % a year , for example , but that did n't give pause to clients of one Alabama planner . 
Now they 're losers 
CDs yielding 40 % are even more implausible 
CDs yielding 40 % are even more implausible 
CDs yielding 40 % are even more implausible -- especially when the issuing `` bank '' in the Marshall Islands is merely a mail drop watched over by a local gas-station operator -- but investors fell for that one too . Certificates of deposit do n't pay 23 % a year , for example , but that did n't give pause to clients of one Alabama planner . Now they 're losers and he 's in jail in Mobile County . 
They graze at the Farmers Market , a combination gourmet food court and grocery store 
At the ritzy Fashion Island Shopping Center , the tanned and elegant ladies of this wealthy Southern California beach community disembark from their Mercedes-Benzes and BMWs for another day of exercising their credit cards . 
This city of more than 70,000 is known for sunshine , yachts and rich residents . 
The breezes are soft , the waves lap gently 
Nothing seems hard here . Nightlife is plentiful . 
Newport Beach fits the scam artists ' specifications perfectly . 
No wonder all kinds of big-time scams have flourished here , from phony tax-sheltered Bible sales to crooked car dealers to bogus penny-stock traders . 
But above all , this is the national headquarters for boiler-room operators , those slick-talking snake-oil salesmen who use the telephone to extract money from the gullible and the greedy 
Because only a fraction of them are ever prosecuted , nobody really knows how much money bogus telemarketing operators really harvest 
`` If that 's true , Orange County has to be at least 10 % of that 
`` If that 's true , Orange County has to be at least 10 % of that . '' 
And most of the truly big scams in Orange County seem to originate in Newport Beach or one of the other well-heeled communities that surround this sliver-like city that hooks around a point of land on the California coast south of Los Angeles . 
In one ingenious recent example of a Newport Beach boiler room , prospective investors in Capital Trust Inc. were allegedly told that their investment in precious metals was insured against losses `` caused by employees due to dishonesty , destruction or disappearance , '' according to an indictment handed up by a federal grand jury in Los Angeles last month . 
Traditionally , boiler rooms operate on the cheap 
Traditionally , boiler rooms operate on the cheap , since few , if any , customers ever visit their offices . 
Traditionally , boiler rooms operate on the cheap , since few , if any , customers ever visit their offices . 
When we go there , it 's quite different from these Hollywood places where the sandwiches are spread out on the table and the people are picking their noses 
When we go there , it 's quite different from these Hollywood places where the sandwiches are spread out on the table 
But , says Mr. Katz , the U.S. attorney , `` the interesting thing about Newport Beach operations is that they give themselves the indulgence of beautiful offices , with plush furnishings . 
'' -LRB- Investigators stress that building owners are victims , too 
True , when you went to college , there was n't that much to learn 
Now , investment salesmen say it 's time to take some risks 
Now , investment salesmen say it 's time to take some risks if you want the kind of returns that will buy your toddler a ticket to Prestige U. in 18 years . 
In short , throw away the passbook 
A year at Harvard now goes for $ 19,395 . By 2007 , when this year 's newborns hit campus , a four-year Ivy League sheepskin will cost $ 300,000 , give or take a few pizzas-with-everything at exam time . Stanford , MIT and other utmosts will cost no less . 
`` You 're not going to make it in a 5 % bank account , '' says James Riepe , director of mutual funds at T. Rowe Price . To get the necessary growth , adds Murray Ruffel , a marketing official at the Financial Programs mutual-fund group , `` you need to go to the stock market . '' 
It never hurt anyone , that is 
It never hurt anyone , that is , unless the growth funds do n't grow 
It never hurt anyone , that is , unless the growth funds do n't grow when you need them to . 
Although many experts are advising risk , no one has a good answer for you if the risk does n't pay off 
Although many experts are advising risk , no one has a good answer for you 
The antitrust division of the Justice Department is investigating the oddly similar tuition charges and increases among the top schools . Fear of the price police could help cool things off in the 1990s . 
The antitrust division of the Justice Department is investigating the oddly similar tuition charges and increases among the top schools . Fear of the price police could help cool things off in the 1990s . 
And then there 's always State U . 
Most of the mailers are free 
To build a nest egg that would pay for Stanford 
They can cut this to $ 691.09 a month 
They can cut this to $ 691.09 a month if the investing keeps up through college . 
And they can further reduce the monthly amount 
Using a recent average private-school cost of about $ 12,500 a year , T. Rowe Price 's planner prescribes $ 450 monthly 
Using a recent average private-school cost of about $ 12,500 a year , T. Rowe Price 's planner prescribes $ 450 monthly if the plan begins 
Since the formula assumes an 8 % before-tax return in a mutual fund , there would also be $ 16,500 in taxes to pay over the 12 years 
Using a recent average private-school cost of about $ 12,500 a year , T. Rowe Price 's planner prescribes $ 450 monthly if the plan begins when the child is six . 
He takes issue with projections that do n't factor in students ' own contribution , which reduces most parents ' burden substantially . 
Still , he says , `` it 's no bad thing 
That way , parents will reduce borrowings and outlays from current income 
Mr. Hauptman reckons that the best investment choice is mutual funds 
Mr. Hauptman reckons that the best investment choice is mutual funds because they are managed and over time have nearly kept up with the broad stock averages . 
They have laid out about $ 1 billion for so-called baccalaureate zero-coupon municipal bonds -- so far offered by Connecticut , Illinois , Virginia and eight other states . 
Like other zeros , they pay all their interest at maturity , meaning that buyers can time things 
Like other zeros , they pay all their interest at maturity , meaning that buyers can time things so that their bonds pay off 
Like other zeros , they pay all their interest at maturity , meaning that buyers can time things so that their bonds pay off just when Junior graduates from high school . 
The baccalaureate bonds -- tax-free , offered in small denominations and usually containing a provision that they wo n't be called before maturity -- seem to be tailor-made for college savers . 
Their price falls further than that of other bonds 
That wo n't matter 
That wo n't matter if they are held to maturity 
That wo n't matter if they are held to maturity , but if , for any reason , the parents need to sell them before then , there could be a severe loss of principal 
Had zeros been available in 1972 and had parents bought a face amount equal to four years ' tuition at the time , aiming for their children 's 1988 enrollment , they would have been left with only enough to pay for two years , Mr. Anderson figures . 
The prepaid plans may be a good bet , provided the guarantee of future tuition is secure . 
Issuing states generally limit the guarantees to in-state institutions , however 
Issuing states generally limit the guarantees to in-state institutions , however , and buyers get refunds without much interest 
Sponsors are naturally counting on their ability to keep ahead of tuition inflation with investment returns . 
But buyers are essentially betting on a start-up investment fund with no track record 
Based on historical rates of return , Mr. Anderson reckons a 100 % stock portfolio , indexed to the market , would have kept up with tuition and taxes in the 20th century . 
But sponsors might not pick the stocks that will match the market . 
What happens 
If you start saving for your child 's eduction on Jan. 1 , 1990 , here 's the monthly sum you will need to invest to pay for four years at Yale , Notre Dame and University of Minnesota 
He sold quarter-inch fingerlings to stock other farmers ' ponds 
He sold quarter-inch fingerlings to stock other farmers ' ponds , and he bought back one-pound-or-so food-fish that he `` live-hauled '' to market along with his own whiskery crop . 
Mr. Baker interviewed or wrote to hundreds of catfish farmers , live-haulers and processors throughout the South 
Confronted with the evidence , Mr. Tharp pleaded guilty to one charge of filing a false return and was fined $ 5,000 and sentenced to 18 months in prison . 
The IRS recently won part of its long-running battle with the Church of Scientology over exemptions 
The IRS recently won part of its long-running battle with the Church of Scientology over exemptions when the U.S. Supreme Court held that members ' payments to the church were n't deductible 
Once such abuses become so pervasive , the IRS builds another factor into its secret computer formula for selecting returns for audit and does n't need special projects for them 
San Franciscans have a much higher incidence of audits than average 
San Franciscans have a much higher incidence of audits than average 
Many openings for mass cheating , such as questionable tax shelters and home offices , have gaped so broadly that Congress has passed stringent laws to close them . 
Unreported alimony income can be spotted by computer 
Unreported alimony income can be spotted by computer because a payer of alimony -LRB- who gets a deduction -RRB- must report the former spouse 's Social Security number . Passport applicants now must give Social Security numbers , enabling the IRS to see whether Americans living abroad are filing required U.S. returns . 
But while IRS computers focus routinely on target groups like these , the agency has assigned many agents to special projects that need more personal attention 
In most cases , the IRS says , these projects are local or regional , rather than national , and arise 
Auditors involved in noncriminal projects ca n't send anyone to jail 
Other projects look for offenders among waiters who get cash tips , people who engage in large cash transactions , and people whose returns show they sold a home for a profit without reinvesting the capital gain in another home by the end of the same year ; the gain must be rolled over within two years to defer tax . 
And now that returns must show dependents ' Social Security numbers , the IRS wants to see which dependents show up on more than one return -- and which dependents turn out to be deceased 
And now that returns must show dependents ' Social Security numbers , the IRS wants to see which dependents show up on more than one return 
Many workers , especially professionals , want to remain independent to avoid tax withholding and to continue to deduct many expenses that employees ca n't . 
But many others , who want to qualify for employee benefits and unemployment compensation , become tipsters for the IRS , says Jerry Lackey , who manages the IRS project 's force of nine agents in north and central Florida from Orlando . 
In his area , Mr. Lackey continues , the miscreant employers most commonly are in construction -- doing framing , drywall , masonry and similar work . 
Firms that are paying employment taxes also provide leads to competitors that are n't , he says . 
Revenue-short states also are becoming more aggressive pursuers of tax delinquents 
Revenue-short states also are becoming more aggressive pursuers of tax delinquents , and perhaps none tracks them down with more relish than does New York 
In finding `` good news '' in Berkeley 's new freshman admissions plan -LRB- `` The Privileged Class , '' editorial , Sept. 20 -RRB- , you 're reading the headline but not the story . 
The plan indeed raises from 40 % to 50 % the number of freshmen applicants admitted strictly by academic criteria . 
Since the `` yield '' from this top slice of applicants is relatively low , boosting admits from 40 % to 50 % will boost registrants from about 31 % to 38 % of the class 
Since the `` yield '' from this top slice of applicants is relatively low , boosting admits from 40 % to 50 % will boost registrants from about 31 % to 38 % of the class . 
Since the `` yield '' from this top slice of applicants is relatively low , boosting admits from 40 % to 50 % will boost registrants from about 31 % to 38 % of the class . In addition , perhaps 5 % of registrants will come from a new category consisting of applicants whose academic credentials `` narrowly missed '' gaining them admission in the first category . 
The plan indeed raises from 40 % to 50 % the number of freshmen applicants admitted strictly by academic criteria . Since the `` yield '' from this top slice of applicants is relatively low , boosting admits from 40 % to 50 % will boost registrants from about 31 % to 38 % of the class . In addition , perhaps 5 % of registrants will come from a new category consisting of applicants whose academic credentials `` narrowly missed '' gaining them admission in the first category . But against that combined increase of 12 % in students chosen by academic criteria , the plan eliminates a large category in which admissions now are based on grades , test scores and `` supplemental points '' for factors such as high-school curriculum , English-language proficiency and an essay . This category now accounts for about 19 % of admits and 22 % of registrants . 
Perhaps it does . 
But the new category does not replace or reduce Berkeley 's broad racial preferences . 
The plan creates a new category of students from `` socioeconomically disadvantaged backgrounds , '' a concept not yet defined , and gives them about 10 % of the class . 
The plan thus places a large new affirmative-action program , based on `` socioeconomic disadvantage , '' on top of the existing program based on race . 
Most of us know a sucker . Many of us are suckers . 
Or an interest in a retirement community in Nevada that will knock your socks off 
But what we may not know is just what makes somebody a sucker . 
Or an interest in a retirement community in Nevada that will knock your socks off , once it is built ? What makes people blurt out their credit-card numbers to a caller they 've never heard of ? Do they really believe that the number is just for verification and is simply a formality on the road to being a grand-prize winner ? What makes a person buy an oil well from some stranger knocking on the screen door ? 
There are , unfortunately , plenty of answers to that question 
`` Once they size them up , then they know what buttons to push 
`` Once they size them up 
John Blodgett agrees 
While the promises of big profits ought to set off warning bells , they often do n't 
While the promises of big profits ought to set off warning bells , they often do n't 
`` The overnight success story is part of our culture 
`` Other people are making it overnight 
`` Other people are making it overnight , and the rest who toil daily do n't want to miss that opportunity 
Adds Spencer Barasch , branch chief for enforcement at the SEC in Fort Worth , Texas : `` Why do people play the lottery 
`` The overnight success story is part of our culture , and our society puts an emphasis on it with lotteries and Ed McMahon making millionaires out of people , '' says Michael Cunningham , an associate professor of psychology at the University of Kentucky in Louisville . 
Clearly , though , scam artists have to be a bit more subtle than simply promising millions ; the psychology of suckers is n't simply the psychology of the greedy . 
Clearly , though , scam artists have to be a bit more subtle than simply promising millions ; the psychology of suckers is n't simply the psychology of the greedy . 
There 's also , for instance , the need to be part of the in-crowd . 
So one popular ploy is to make a prospective investor feel like an insider , joining an exclusive group that is about to make a killing . 
Between 1978 and 1987 , for instance , SH Oil in Winter Haven , Fla. , sold interests in oil wells to a very select group of local residents 
Such schemes , says Tony Adamski , chief of the financial-crimes unit of the Federal Bureau of Investigation in Washington , D.C. , appeal to investors ' `` desire to believe this is really true 
In appealing to those with a bit of larceny in their hearts , the fraud artist can insist that a person keep an investment secret -- insulating himself from being discovered and keeping his victim from consulting with others . 
`` Once people got into it , I was allowing them to live a dream 
Paul Wenz , a Phoenix , Ariz. , attorney , says a promise of unrealistic returns would have made him leery . 
When he visited the company 's office , he says , it had `` all the trappings of legitimacy 
Scam artists seek out such people -- or try to make sure that their victims isolate themselves . 
For instance , salesmen may counter a man 's objection that he wants to discuss an investment with his wife by asking , `` Who wears the pants in your family ? '' 
William Lynes , a retired engineer from Lockheed Corp. , says he and his wife , Lily , warmed to the investment pitches of a penny-stock peddler from Stuart-James Co. in Atlanta 
The Lyneses , of Powder Springs , Ga. , have filed suit in Georgia state court against Stuart James , alleging fraud . 
People may be particularly vulnerable to flim-flam pitches 
`` Sometimes when people are making big changes , retiring from their jobs , moving to a new area , they lose their bearings 
`` They may be susceptible to some song and dance 
People may be particularly vulnerable to flim-flam pitches when they are in the midst of a major upheaval in their lives . 
They are obviously also more susceptible 
They are obviously also more susceptible when they need money 
`` We were saving up to buy a house 
`` It was just before the Christmas holidays 
Prices for seats on the New York Stock Exchange are recovering a bit 
FOX HUNTING HAS been defined as the unspeakable in pursuit of the inedible 
Most of us have to spend our time on pursuits that afford neither , drab duties rather than pleasures . 
Most of us have to spend our time on pursuits that afford neither , drab duties rather than pleasures . Like trying to buy life insurance , for instance , an endeavor notably lacking in dash . 
But sooner or later , most of us have to think about life insurance , just as we often have to think about having root-canal work . 
In times past , life-insurance salesmen targeted heads of household , meaning men 
In times past , life-insurance salesmen targeted heads of household , meaning men , but ours is a two-income family and accustomed to it . 
So if anything happened to me , I 'd want to leave behind enough so that my 33-year-old husband would be able to pay off the mortgage and some other debts -LRB- though not , I admit , enough to put any potential second wife in the lap of luxury -RRB- 
So if anything happened to me , I 'd want to leave behind enough 
Over the past decade or two , while I was thinking about fox hunting , the insurance industry has spawned an incredible number of products , variations on products , and variations on the variations 
Shorn of all their riders , special provisions , and other bells and whistles , insurance policies can still be grouped under two broad categories : so-called pure insurance , which amasses no cash value in the policy and pays off only upon death , and permanent insurance , which provides not only a death benefit but also a cash value in the policy that can be used in various ways 
If all you want is death-benefit coverage , pure insurance -- a term policy -- gives you maximum bang for your buck , within limits 
If all you want is death-benefit coverage , pure insurance -- a term policy -- gives you maximum bang for your buck , within limits . 
But `` term '' means just that ; the policy is written for a specific time period only and must be renewed 
But `` term '' means just that ; the policy is written for a specific time period only and must be renewed when it expires . 
It may also stipulate that the insured must pass another medical exam before renewal ; if you flunk -- which means you need insurance more than ever -- you may not be able to buy it 
Even if you 're healthy and can renew , your premium will go up sharply because you 're that much older 
Even if you 're healthy and can renew , your premium will go up sharply 
But `` term '' means just that ; the policy is written for a specific time period only and must be renewed when it expires . It may also stipulate that the insured must pass another medical exam before renewal ; if you flunk -- which means you need insurance more than ever -- you may not be able to buy it . Even if you 're healthy and can renew , your premium will go up sharply because you 're that much older . 
One variation that appealed to me at first was the `` Money Smart Term Life '' policy offered by Amex Life Insurance Co. , the American Express unit , to the parent company 's credit-card holders . 
Amex said it would charge me $ 576 a year for $ 100,000 of coverage -- and would pay me back all the premiums I put in 
First , if I canceled , I 'd have no more insurance , a not insignificant consideration 
Second , the $ 5,760 I 'd get back would be much diminished in purchasing power by 10 years of inflation ; Amex , not I , would get the benefit of the investment income on my money , income that would have exceeded the inflation rate 
Third and most important , Amex would charge me a far higher premium than other reputable companies would on a straight term policy for the same amount ; I 'd be paying so heavily just to have the option of getting my premiums back that I 'd almost have to cancel to make the whole thing worthwhile . 
That would be all right with Amex , which could then lock in its investment profit 
If I die early , I win -- a hollow victory 
If I die early , I win -- a hollow victory 
If I die early , I win -- a hollow victory , since I ca n't enjoy it 
If I die early , I win -- a hollow victory , since I ca n't enjoy it -- and if I live long , the insurer wins 
This is worth remembering 
The word `` death '' can not be escaped entirely by the industry 
The word `` death '' can not be escaped entirely by the industry , but salesmen dodge it wherever possible or cloak it in euphemisms 
That 's 
This is reflected in a built-in mortality cost -- in effect , your share of the company 's estimated liability in paying off beneficiaries of people who had the effrontery to die 
This is reflected in a built-in mortality cost -- in effect , your share of the company 's estimated liability in paying off beneficiaries of people who had the effrontery to die while under its protection . 
That 's because you have to pay for the insurance portion of the policy and the effort required to sell and service the whole package . 
You pay a set premium for a set amount of coverage , the company invests that premium in a portfolio of its choosing 
One newer wrinkle , so called single-premium life -LRB- you pay for the whole policy at once -RRB- , has been immensely popular in recent years for tax reasons ; the insured could extract cash value in the form of policy `` loans 
One newer wrinkle , so called single-premium life -LRB- you pay for the whole policy at once -RRB- , has been immensely popular in recent years for tax reasons ; the insured could extract cash value in the form of policy `` loans , '' and none of the proceeds were taxable 
Congress closed this loophole last year , or thought it did . 
However , Monarch Capital Corp. of Springfield , Mass. , has developed a `` combination plan '' of annuity and insurance coverage that it says does not violate the new regulations 
However , Monarch Capital Corp. of Springfield , Mass. , has developed a `` combination plan '' of annuity and insurance coverage that it says does not violate the new regulations and that allows policy loans without tax consequences . 
I 'm not prepared in any case to put that much money into a policy immediately 
I can adjust the amount of insurance I want against the amount going into investment ; I can pay more or less than the so-called target premium in a given year 
I can adjust the amount of insurance I want against the amount going into investment ; I can pay more or less than the so-called target premium in a given year ; and I can even skip payments 
They commonly give two scenarios : One is based on interest rates that the company guarantees -LRB- usually 4 % to 4.5 % -RRB- 
Projecting the latter over several decades , I find my cash buildup is impressive 
Projecting the latter over several decades , I find my cash buildup is impressive -- but can any high interest rate prevail for that long ? Not likely , I think . 
Also , some policy illustrations assume that mortality costs will decline 
Companies `` are n't comfortable playing these games 
Another factor to consider : Some of the companies currently earning very high yields are doing so through substantial investment in junk bonds 
There are seemingly endless twists to universal life 
There are seemingly endless twists to universal life , and it pays to ask questions about all of them . 
At a back-yard barbecue , for example , a friend boasts that she 'll only have to pay premiums on her John Hancock policy for seven years 
At a back-yard barbecue , for example , a friend boasts that she 'll only have to pay premiums on her John Hancock policy for seven years 
Yes , he says , premiums on such variable-rate coverage can be structured to `` vanish '' after a certain period 
Yes , he says , premiums on such variable-rate coverage can be structured to `` vanish '' after a certain period 
If interest rates plunge , the insurer may be knocking on my door , asking for steeper premium payments to maintain the same amount of protection 
Yes , he says , premiums on such variable-rate coverage can be structured to `` vanish '' after a certain period -- but usually only if interest rates stay high enough to generate sufficient cash to cover the annual cost of insurance protection . 
Some insurers have also started offering `` persistency bonuses , '' such as extra dividends or a marginally higher interest yield 
Some insurers have also started offering `` persistency bonuses , '' such as extra dividends or a marginally higher interest yield , if the policy is maintained for 10 years . 
But Glenn Daily , a New York-based financial consultant , warns that many of these bonuses are `` just fantasies 
But Glenn Daily , a New York-based financial consultant , warns that many of these bonuses are `` just fantasies , '' because most are n't guaranteed by the companies . 
Some insurers have also started offering `` persistency bonuses , '' such as extra dividends or a marginally higher interest yield , if the policy is maintained for 10 years . But Glenn Daily , a New York-based financial consultant , warns that many of these bonuses are `` just fantasies , '' because most are n't guaranteed by the companies . And the feature is so new , he adds , that no insurer has yet established a track record for actually making such payments . 
Offered by insurers that include Security-Connecticut Life Insurance Co. , Jackson National Life Insurance Co. , and National Travelers Life Insurance Co. , these policy riders let me tap a portion of my death benefits 
Some provisions would let me collect a percentage of the policy 's face value to pay for long-term care such as nursing-home stays ; others would allow payments for catastrophic illnesses and conditions such as cancer , heart attarcks , renal failure and kidney transplants . 
But the catastrophic events for which the policyholder can collect are narrowly defined , vary from policy to policy , and generally permit use of only a small fraction of the face amount of insurance . 
Also , financial planners advising on insurance say that to their knowledge there has not yet been a tax ruling exempting these advance payments from taxes . 
I 'm more favorably impressed by `` no-load life 
Insureres selling these policies market them directly to the public 
Insureres selling these policies market them directly to the public or otherwise do n't use commissioned salesmen ; there is still a load -- annual administrative fees and initial `` setup '' charges 
Insureres selling these policies market them directly to the public or otherwise do n't use commissioned salesmen ; there is still a load -- annual administrative fees and initial `` setup '' charges 
After one year I could walk away from the Ameritas policy with $ 792 
At age 65 , when I 'd stop paying premiums , the Ameritas offering would have a projected cash value $ 14,000 higher than the other 
A person can do some heavy thinking about insurance there -- and shop for something more exciting 
Rorer Group Inc. will report that third-quarter profit rose more than 15 % from a year earlier 
Mr. Cawthorn attributed the decline in third-quarter operating profit to the stronger dollar , which reduces the value of overseas profit 
`` We had underfunded Maalox for a year 
It was the second anniversary of the 1987 crash 
The 30 industrials led the market higher from the opening bell 
Standard & Poor 's 500-stock Index rose 5.37 to 347.13 
The industrials were up about 60 points in the afternoon 
The consumer price index rose 0.2 % in September 
The euphoria was such that investors responded to good earnings reports of companies such as American Express 
To the amazement of some traders , takeover stocks were climbing again . 
Among other stocks involved in restructurings or rumored to be so : Holiday Corp. gained 1 7\/8 to 73 
Takeover enthusiasm may have been renewed 
Takeover enthusiasm may have been renewed when an investor group disclosed yesterday that it had obtained all the financing required to complete its $ 1.6 billion leveraged buy-out of American Medical International . `` That 's put some oomph back into this market , '' said Peter VandenBerg , a vice president of equity trading at Shearson Lehman Hutton . 
It 's not good ; the market is setting up for another fall . '' 
Philip Morris added 1 1\/8 to 44 1\/2 in Big Board composite trading of 3.7 million shares , Coca-Cola Co. gained 2 3\/8 to 70 3\/8 , Merck gained 1 3\/8 to 77 3\/8 
Elsewhere on the takeover front , Time Warner advanced 2 5\/8 to 136 5\/8 
Paramount Communications climbed 1 1\/4 to 58 1\/2 
Among other actual and rumored targets , Woolworth rose 1 1\/4 to 60 1\/2 , Upjohn went up 1 1\/8 to 39 3\/4 , Armstrong World Industries gained 1 to 40 1\/8 
Paramount Communications climbed 1 1\/4 to 58 1\/2 and MCA rose 1 1\/2 to 64 ; both media companies have long been mentioned as potential acquisition candidates . Among other actual and rumored targets , Woolworth rose 1 1\/4 to 60 1\/2 , Upjohn went up 1 1\/8 to 39 3\/4 , Armstrong World Industries gained 1 to 40 1\/8 and Kollmorgen rose 3\/4 to 13 7\/8 . 
Consumer stocks once again set the pace for blue-chip issues . 
IBM rose 2 3\/8 to 104 1\/8 
Among other technology issues , Cray Research rose 1 5\/8 to 37 , Hewlett-Packard added 1 1\/4 to 50 1\/4 , Tandem Computers rallied 1 1\/8 to 25 3\/4 , Data General rose 3\/4 to 14 1\/2 
Among other technology issues , Cray Research rose 1 5\/8 to 37 , Hewlett-Packard added 1 1\/4 to 50 1\/4 , Tandem Computers rallied 1 1\/8 to 25 3\/4 , Data General rose 3\/4 to 14 1\/2 and Motorola gained 2 3\/8 to 59 1\/4 . 
On the other hand , Symbol Technologies dropped 1 1\/4 to 18 1\/2 
On the other hand , Symbol Technologies dropped 1 1\/4 to 18 1\/2 after Shearson Lehman Hutton lowered its short-term investment rating on the stock and its 1989 earnings estimate 
On the other hand , Symbol Technologies dropped 1 1\/4 to 18 1\/2 after Shearson Lehman Hutton lowered its short-term investment rating on the stock and its 1989 earnings estimate , and Commodore International fell 7\/8 to 8 
American International Group climbed 4 to 106 5\/8 , General Re rose 3 1\/8 to 89 5\/8 , Kemper added 2 1\/2 to 48 , AON went up 1 3\/8 to 36 
Mattel added 1 1\/4 to 19 5\/8 , Tonka firmed 1 to 18 1\/2 
Mattel added 1 1\/4 to 19 5\/8 , Tonka firmed 1 to 18 1\/2 and Lewis Galoob Toys rose 7\/8 to 13 5\/8 on the Big Board 
Chambers Development Class A jumped 3 1\/8 to 37 1\/8 
In order to defuse pressure for an amendment , Mr. Mitchell and House Speaker Thomas Foley -LRB- D. , Wash . -RRB- had arranged for lawmakers to pass a statute barring flag desecration 
Mr. Bush said he would allow the bill to become law without his signature 
If you think you have stress-related problems on the job , there 's good news and bad news 
You 're probably right 
The stress study was undertaken 
`` We hope to sensitize employers '' to recognize the problems 
Early intervention into these types of problems can apparently save businesses long-term expense associated with hospitalization , which sometimes results 
Even the courts are beginning to recognize the link between jobs and stress-related disorders in compensation cases , according to a survey by the National Council on Compensation Insurance . 
But although 56 % of the respondents in the study indicated that mental-health problems were fairly pervasive in the workplace , there is still a social stigma associated with people seeking help 
The poll showed that company size had a bearing on a manager 's view of the problem , with 65 % of those in companies of more than 15,000 employees saying stress-related problems were `` fairly pervasive 
The poll showed that company size had a bearing on a manager 's view of the problem , with 65 % of those in companies of more than 15,000 employees saying stress-related problems were `` fairly pervasive '' and 55 % of those in companies with fewer than 4,000 employees agreeing . 
The poll also noted fear of a takeover as a stress-producing event in larger companies . 
Although Dr. Warshaw points out that stress and anxiety have their positive uses , `` stress perceived to be threatening implies a component of fear and anxiety that may contribute to burnout 
Although Dr. Warshaw points out that stress and anxiety have their positive uses , `` stress perceived to be threatening implies a component of fear and anxiety that may contribute to burnout . '' 
`` We all like stress 
IT IS N'T TRUE that a 90-year old clergyman on a mission of mercy to a disaster area on Christmas Day can fly free . 
In recent years , carriers have become much more picky about who can fly on the cheap . 
But there still are a few ways today 's traveler can qualify under the airline 's many restrictions . 
That approach flopped : Last Christmas Day , a USAir Group Inc. DC-9 jetliner flew about seven passengers from Chicago to Pittsburgh . 
IF CONTINENTAL Airlines has its way , couples like Marlo Thomas and Phil Donahue may find it a hassle to qualify for some new discounts 
The Continental catch : Only immediate family members are allowed 
That irritates many women who have n't taken their husbands ' last name . 
WHEN HURRICANE Hugo careened through the Caribbean and the Atlantic coast states , it downed electric and telephone lines , shot coconuts through cottage rooftops , shattered windows and uprooted thousands of lives 
WHEN HURRICANE Hugo careened through the Caribbean and the Atlantic coast states , it downed electric and telephone lines , shot coconuts through cottage rooftops , shattered windows and uprooted thousands of lives . 
-LRB- Airlines are n't lowering fares to Northern California following this week 's earthquake 
Says Michele Hoffman , a clerk in the resort 's front office : `` We do n't have the outdoor pool , the pool table , ping pong table , snack bar or VCR 
Just Wait 
A senior citizen between 62 and 70 saves 70 % off regular coach fare . Travelers up to age 99 get a percentage discount matching their age . 
And centenarians fly free in first class . A senior citizen between 62 and 70 saves 70 % off regular coach fare . Travelers up to age 99 get a percentage discount matching their age . 
In an official release , BP said initial production from the field was 11,000 barrels a day 
For every dollar earned over $ 8,880 , Social Security recipients lose 50 cents of their Social Security benefits ; it 's like a 50 % marginal tax . 
Imagine a widow who wants to maintain her standard of living at the same level she had 
Although this widow earns only twice the minimum wage , largely due to the earnings limit , she would have to earn an additional $ 4,930 to offset her catastrophic surtax of $ 496 
Since all four Republicans on the committee are co-sponsors of my bill , it is the Democrats who will be held fully accountable if an earnings test amendment is not allowed from the floor 
Since all four Republicans on the committee are co-sponsors of my bill , it is the Democrats who will be held fully accountable 
When his Seventh Avenue fur business here was flying high 20 years ago , Jack Purnick had 25 workers and a large factory 
Now his half-dozen employees work in an eighth-floor shop that he says is smaller than his old storage room . 
When his Seventh Avenue fur business here was flying high 20 years ago , Jack Purnick had 25 workers and a large factory . Now his half-dozen employees work in an eighth-floor shop that he says is smaller than his old storage room . He also says he is losing money now . He blames imports . 
One stuck to old-line business traditions 
`` We make the finest product in the world 
`` We make the finest product in the world , and the Americans are being kicked around . '' 
Import competition for U.S. furs has risen sharply 
The new market helped boost U.S. fur sales to about $ 1.8 billion a year now , triple the level in the late 1970s . 
High-end U.S. furriers say these imports have n't squeezed them . 
But low-priced and middle-priced furriers like Mr. Purnick , who once saturated the five-block Seventh Avenue fur district , say imports have cut their sales . 
Early in the decade he saw that fur workers in many foreign countries were willing to work longer hours at lower wages than their American counterparts and were more open to innovation . 
He also noticed that foreign makers were introducing many variations on the traditional fur 
To maintain control over production and avoid overdependence on foreign sources , he says he still makes most of his furs in the U.S. . 
To maintain control over production and avoid overdependence on foreign sources , he says he still makes most of his furs in the U.S. . 
From Asia , he has mink jackets with floral patterns made by using different colored furs . Inspired by imports , Mr. Rosen now makes fur muffs , hats and flings . This year he produced a men 's line and offers dyed furs in red , cherry red , violet , royal blue and forest green . He has leather jackets from Turkey that are lined with eel skin and topped off with raccoon-skin collars . 
Besides adding to sales , leathers also attract retailers who may buy furs later 
Besides adding to sales 
Besides adding to sales , leathers also attract retailers 
Besides adding to sales , leathers also attract retailers who may buy furs later , he adds . 
He also noticed that foreign makers were introducing many variations on the traditional fur , and he decided to follow suit . 
Mr. Rosen is also pushing retail sales . 
Golden Feldman Furs Inc. began retailing aggressively eight years ago 
The industry enjoyed six prosperous years beginning in 1980 
Aftereffects of the 1987 stock market crash head the list of reasons . 
Aftereffects of the 1987 stock market crash head the list of reasons . In addition , competition has glutted the market with both skins and coats , driving prices down . The animal-rights movement has n't helped sales . Warm winters over the past two years have trimmed demand , too , furriers complain . 
Large furriers such as Antonovich Inc. , Fur Vault Inc. and Evans Inc. all reported losses in their latest fiscal years . 
He contends that chasing consumers with low-priced imports will harm the industry in the long run by reducing the prestige of furs . 
Four workers at GTE Corp. 's headquarters have been diagnosed as having hepatitis 
GTE shut down its cafeteria Tuesday afternoon 
`` From a public health point of view we 're relieved 
`` From a public health point of view we 're relieved because hepatitis A is rarely life-threatening , '' said Dr. Frank Provato , GTE 's medical director . 
`` It 's a double-edged sword though 
`` From a public health point of view we 're relieved because hepatitis A is rarely life-threatening , '' said Dr. Frank Provato , GTE 's medical director . 
`` We 're strongly recommending that anyone who has eaten in the cafeteria this month have the shot 
Two weeks after boosting base rates to 15 % , he pledged that `` rates will have to remain high for some time to come 
Two weeks after boosting base rates to 15 % , he pledged that `` rates will have to remain high for some time to come . '' 
In reaffirming the current monetary policy of using high interest rates to fight inflation and shore up the pound , Mr. Lawson dismissed other approaches to managing the economy . 
While lower joblessness is generally good news , the hefty drop last month indicates that the economy is n't slowing down as much as hoped -- despite a doubling of interest rates over the last 16 months 
Unemployment in September dropped to 1,695,000 , the lowest level since 1980 . 
In a separate speech prepared for delivery at the dinner , Robin Leigh-Pemberton , Bank of England governor , conceded that `` demand pressures were even more buoyant than had been appreciated 
Discussing the recent slide in stock prices , the central bank governor stated that `` the markets now appear to have steadied 
Although the New York market plunge prompted a 70.5-point drop in the London Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100 Share Index , Mr. Leigh-Pemberton declared `` that the experience owed nothing to the particular problems of the British economy 
Although the New York market plunge prompted a 70.5-point drop in the London Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100 Share Index , Mr. Leigh-Pemberton declared `` that the experience owed nothing to the particular problems of the British economy . '' 
Discussing future monetary arrangements , Mr. Lawson repeated the Thatcher government 's commitment to join the exchange rate mechanism of the European Monetary System 
Hewlett-Packard Co. became the first company world-wide to announce a product based on the chip earlier this month 
An Olivetti spokesman said the company 's factories are already beginning to produce the machine 
`` What this means is that Europeans will have these machines in their offices 
The new chip `` is a very big step in computing 
Although Olivetti 's profits tumbled 40 % in the first half of this year , she believes Olivetti 's restructuring last fall and its introduction of new products will begin to bear fruit with an earnings rebound next year 
Although Olivetti 's profits tumbled 40 % in the first half of this year , she believes Olivetti 's restructuring last fall and its introduction of new products will begin to bear fruit with an earnings rebound next year 
The Intel 486 chip can process 15 million instructions per second , or MIPS 
The machines will cost around $ 16,250 on average in Europe . 
Social Security benefits will rise 4.7 % next year to keep pace with inflation , boosting the average monthly benefit to $ 566 from $ 541 , the Department of Health and Human Services announced . 
Social Security benefits will rise 4.7 % next year to keep pace with inflation , boosting the average monthly benefit to $ 566 from $ 541 , the Department of Health and Human Services announced . 
Sales growth in the quarter was slowed by mounting pressure from groups of buyers , such as hospitals , to hold down prices . 
In some cases , competition has squeezed margins . 
The Franklin Lakes , N.J. , company is expected to report sales growth of only 5 % to 6 % , but should still maintain earnings growth of 10 % , says Jerry E. Fuller , an analyst with Duff & Phelps Inc . Among the first of the group to post results , Abbott Laboratories said third-quarter net income jumped 14 % to $ 196 million , or 88 cents a share , from $ 172 million , or 76 cents a share , a year earlier . Sales for the company , based in Abbott Park , Ill. , rose 8.3 % to $ 1.31 billion from $ 1.21 billion . Baxter International Inc. yesterday reported net climbed 20 % in the third period to $ 102 million , or 34 cents a share , from $ 85 million , or 28 cents a share , a year earlier . Sales for the Deerfield , Ill. , company rose 5.8 % to $ 1.81 billion from $ 1.71 billion . 
The Murray Hill , N.J. , company said full-year earnings may be off 33 cents a share 
Some analysts add that third-party pressures to reduce health costs will continue to bedevil companies ' bottom lines . 
`` As that wanes , you 're going to see the stocks probably wane as well 
Medical-supply houses are expected to report earnings increases of about 15 % on average for the third quarter , despite sales increases of less than 10 % , analysts say . But not every company expects to report increased earnings . 
Bolstered by strong performances by its psychiatric hospitals , National Medical Enterprises Inc. , Los Angeles , reported net income of $ 50 million , or 65 cents a share , for the first quarter ended Aug. 31 , up from $ 41 million , or 56 cents a share , a year earlier . 
Most important , hospital admission rates are stabilizing after several years of decline . 
Most important , hospital admission rates are stabilizing after several years of decline . 
The number of people receiving regular state benefits in the week ended Sept. 30 decreased to a seasonally adjusted 2,202,000 , or 2.2 % of those covered by unemployment insurance , from 2,205,000 the previous week 
A Labor Department spokesman said the unusually high number of initial claims for state unemployment benefits reflects the impact of Hurricane Hugo on southern states , particularly North Carolina and South Carolina . 
Although the second-largest computer maker had prepared Wall Street for a poor quarter , analysts said they were troubled by signs of flat U.S. orders and a slowdown in the rate of gain in foreign orders 
Digital said a shift in its product mix toward low-end products and strong growth in workstation sales yielded lower gross margins . 
`` Until the new mainframe products kick in , there wo n't be a lot of revenue contribution at the high end 
`` Until the new mainframe products kick in , there wo n't be a lot of revenue contribution at the high end 
The lack of a strong product at the high end of Digital 's line was a significant drag on sales . 
DEC shares rose $ 1.375 to $ 89.75 apiece in consolidated New York Stock Exchange trading yesterday . 
`` Margins will remain under pressure 
`` Margins will remain under pressure , and when the new mainframe does ship , I 'm not sure it will be a big winner 
'' Mr. Milunovich said he was revising his estimate for DEC 's current year from $ 8.20 a share to `` well below $ 8 
Although overall revenues were stronger , Mr. Schulman said , DEC `` drew down its European backlog '' and had flat world-wide orders overall 
Reuben Mark , chairman and chief executive officer of Colgate , said earnings growth was fueled by strong sales in Latin America , the Far East and Europe . 
`` We 've done a lot to improve -LRB- U.S. . -RRB- results 
Colgate Palmolive Co. reported third-quarter net income rose 27 % , bolstered by strong sales in its Latin American business and surprisingly healthy profits from U.S. operations . 
American Telephone & Telegraph Co. unveiled a sweetened pension and early-retirement program for management that it hopes will enable it to save $ 450 million in the next year . 
Sales of long-distance services , an extremely competitive market , rose 6.4 % . 
Analysts hailed the sweetened pension package , which they said had been the subject of rumors for several months . 
`` This is a good move 
AT&T said the special retirement option will increase fourth-quarter expenses . 
But the company said the amount ca n't be determined 
When it comes to buying and selling shares , Westridge Capital Management Inc. takes a back seat to no one 
When it comes to buying and selling shares , Westridge Capital Management Inc. takes a back seat to no one . 
Indexing for the most part has involved simply buying 
These big investors have flocked to indexing 
These big investors have flocked to indexing because relatively few `` active '' stock pickers have been able to consistently match the returns of the S&P 500 or other bellwethers , much less beat it . 
That 's 
That 's because computers do most of the work 
Indexing for the most part has involved simply buying and then holding stocks in the correct mix to mirror a stock market barometer , such as Standard & Poor 's 500-stock index , and match its performance . 
Because index-fund managers are no longer satisfied with merely being average , they have developed `` enhanced '' indexing strategies that are intended to outperform the market as much as three percentage points 
`` Indexing has been the most single successful investment concept in the last decade 
With today 's computer-driven program trading techniques , index funds can trade back and forth between stock-index futures and the actual stocks making up indexes such as the S&P 500 . 
-LRB- After tripling in size in the past five years , index funds now hold about 20 % of the stock owned by pension funds 
`` It 's like getting a free toaster 
One reason for these hybrids is that indexing 's rapid growth is slowing , particularly for those `` plain vanilla '' funds that mirror the S&P 500 . A further problem is razor-thin profits . 
As a result , indexers have been looking for ways to give investors something more than the average for their money . 
The firm sometimes buys S&P 500 futures 
The firm sometimes buys S&P 500 futures when they are selling at a discount to the actual stocks , and will switch back and forth between stocks and stock-index futures to take advantages of any momentary price discrepencies . 
Mr. Carder also goes through periods when he buys stocks in conjunction with options to boost returns and protect against declines . 
The firm sometimes buys S&P 500 futures when they are selling at a discount to the actual stocks , and will switch back and forth between stocks and stock-index futures to take advantages of any momentary price discrepencies . 
`` You 're buying the S&P 
Big indexer Bankers Trust Co. also uses futures in a strategy that on average has added one percentage point to its enhanced fund 's returns . J. Thomas Allen , president of Pittsburgh-based Advanced Investment Management Inc. , agrees it 's a good idea to jump between the S&P 500 stocks and futures . 
`` If the futures markets have a problem 
These guarantee protection against stock market declines 
Here a fund may promise to pay back , say , $ 95 of every $ 100 invested for a year 
One simple approach is to exclude S&P 500 companies considered bankruptcy candidates ; this can avoid weak sisters 
One simple approach is to exclude S&P 500 companies considered bankruptcy candidates ; this can avoid weak sisters , but also can hurt 
Other funds have been designed to concentrate on stocks in a geographic area in order to encourage local investment . 
Short interest on the New York Stock Exchange declined for the second consecutive month , this time 4.2 % 
For the year-earlier month , the Big Board reported 461,539,056 shares , indicating a 13.5 % year-to-year rise 
Traders who sell short borrow stock and sell it , betting that the stock 's price will decline 
Traders who sell short borrow stock and sell it 
Although a substantial short position reflects heavy speculation that a stock 's price will decline , some investors consider an increase in short interest bullish 
Although a substantial short position reflects heavy speculation that a stock 's price will decline , some investors consider an increase in short interest bullish 
Although a substantial short position reflects heavy speculation that a stock 's price will decline , some investors consider an increase in short interest bullish because the borrowed shares eventually must be bought back . 
The level of negative sentiment measured by the Big Board short interest ratio slipped to 3.36 from last month 's 3.38 . 
Some analysts suggest , however , that the ratio has weakened in value as an indicator 
Short interest in International Business Machines Corp. plunged to 1,425,035 shares from 2,387,226 shares a month earlier . 
Your Oct. 12 editorial `` Pitiful , Helpless Presidency ? '' correctly states that I was critical of the Bush administration 's failure to have any plan in place to respond in a timely fashion to the opportunities to oust Manuel Noriega presented by the attempted military coup on Oct. 3 . 
Although you may have forgotten , public opinion about Gen. Noriega is where it is in large measure because of my investigation of his years of involvement in narcotics smuggling -LRB- and simultaneous work as a U.S. operative -RRB- 
It was during those hearings that the nation first learned the breadth and depth of Gen. Noriega 's criminality , and of his enduring relationships with a variety of U.S. government agencies . 
As former Ambassador to Costa Rica Francis J. McNeil testified before the subcommittee , the Reagan administration knew that Gen. Noriega was involved with narcotics , but made a decision in the summer of 1986 `` to put Gen. Noriega on the shelf 
As the report issued by the subcommittee concluded , `` Our government did nothing regarding Gen. Noriega 's drug business and substantial criminal involvement 
After years of hesitation , economic and political reform was embraced at the end of 1986 
Mr. Chan , now 64 years old , invented a fountain pen he and his family produced from plastic waste . 
Though his operation was registered and used only scrap , he was accused of conducting illegal business and possessing illegal materials 
Things were supposed to change 
Things were supposed to change when Vietnam 's economic reforms gathered pace 
Newspapers published articles about him 
`` That was the first time they lost 
Says Mr. Chan : `` When I showed it was from my own brain , they lost for the second time 
Says Mr. Chan : `` When I showed it was from my own brain , they lost for the second time . '' 
His family was given three hours to leave 
In 1988 , 18 months after the sixth congress formally endorsed family-run private enterprise , district authorities allowed Mr. Chan to resume work 
Come daybreak , eight family members and two other workers unroll a sheet of raw rubber that covers the floor of the house and spills out onto the street . 
The primitive operations also burst out the back door into a small courtyard , where an ancient press squeezes rubber solution into a flat strip 
Mr. Chan talks optimistically of expanding , maybe even moving into the import-export field . 
When district authorities allowed him to resume manufacturing , they released only one of his machines 
They did n't return the rubber stocks that represent his capital . 
When district authorities allowed him to resume manufacturing , they released only one of his machines . They did n't return the rubber stocks that represent his capital . Nor did they return his house and contents , which he values at about $ 44,000 . 
Nguyen Ngoc seemed an obvious choice 
Mr. Ngoc , 57 years old , had solid reformist credentials : He had lost his official position in the association in he early 1980s 
Circulation soared 
Another described how tax-collection officials in Thanh Hoa province one night stormed through homes and confiscated rice from starving villagers . 
As she rode over regulations , only her friendship with party leaders , including Nguyen Van Linh , then Ho Chi Minh City party secretary , kept her out of jail 
Actually , 67-year-old Mrs. Thi is about as poor as almost everyone else in this impoverished land . 
She has indeed turned Hochiminh City Food into a budding conglomerate 
Standard & Poor 's Corp. is reviewing debt issued by 12 California counties 
As for property and casualty insurers , Moody 's said `` preliminary estimates suggest that losses should not have a significant impact on most insurers ' financial condition 
Western Digital Corp. reported a net loss of $ 2.7 million , or nine cents a share , for its first quarter ended Sept. 30 , citing factors as varied as hurricane damage , an advance in graphics technology and the strengthening dollar . 
Although the plant itself was n't damaged , Mr. Johnson said millions of dollars in first-quarter revenue were lost 
Mr. Johnson said Western Digital 's plant in Puerto Rico was affected by Hurricane Hugo , losing three days ' production because of the storm , which wrecked much of the Caribbean island 's infrastructure . Although the plant itself was n't damaged , Mr. Johnson said millions of dollars in first-quarter revenue were lost . 
He said Western Digital has reacted swiftly to the movement to video graphics array , VGA , graphics technology from the old enhanced graphics adapter , EGA , which has a lower resolution standard , technology and now is one of the leading producers of these newer units . 
Other makers of video controller equipment also were caught in the EGA-VGA shift 
Other makers of video controller equipment also were caught in the EGA-VGA shift , he said , `` but we were able to respond much more quickly . '' 
He said the company has cut operating expenses by about 10 % over the last few quarters 
Graphics , communications and peripheral control chips were combined 
As smaller and more powerful computers continue to be the focus of the industry , he said , Western Digital is strengthening development of laptop parts 
About half of Western Digital 's business is overseas 
Plans to dissolve many of the trade barriers within Europe in 1992 creates significant opportunities for the company 
Until now , BNL 's top managers and its directors have been appointed by a Treasury decree . 
But under the bank 's proposed statutes , an assembly of shareholders must approve board members . 
Assets owned or managed rose 20 % to $ 45 billion 
As the Hunt brothers ' personal bankruptcy cases sputter into their second year , Minpeco S.A. has proposed a deal to settle its huge claim against the troubled Texas oil men 
As the Hunt brothers ' personal bankruptcy cases sputter into their second year , Minpeco S.A. has proposed a deal to settle its huge claim against the troubled Texas oil men . 
Minpeco now says it is willing to settle for up to $ 65.7 million from each brother 
Although the proposal must be approved by federal Judge Harold C. Abramson , W. Herbert Hunt has agreed to the Peruvian mineral concern 's proposal 
Nelson Bunker Hunt is considering it 
Nelson Bunker Hunt is considering it , although his attorney says he wo n't do it 
A similiar proposal has been made in the W. Herbert Hunt case 
Minpeco has threatened a `` volcano '' of litigation 
Minpeco said it would n't pursue such litigation 
Minpeco attorney Thomas Gorman decribed the plan as one step toward an overall settlement of the W. Herbert Hunt case 
The purchase price will be established 
Individual investors , represented in the general-purpose and broker-dealer fund categories , pulled money from the stock market after its big drop last Friday and put the money into funds , said Jacob Dreyer , vice president and chief economist of the Institute . 
At the auction of six-month U.S. Treasury bills on Monday , the average yield fell to 7.61 % from 7.82 % . 
The 235 general-purpose funds increased $ 2.53 billion to $ 116.56 billion 
Speaking to reporters this week 
Speaking to reporters this week after Bank Bumiputra 's shareholders approved a rescue plan , Tan Sri Basir said heavy lending to the property sector rocked the bank 
He said the bank could n't wait any longer for prices to recover and for borrowers to service their loans . 
Once the plan is approved , Tan Sri Basir said , most of Bank Bumiputra 's nonperforming loans will have been fully provided for and the bank will be on track to report a pretax profit of between M$ 160 million and M$ 170 million for the fiscal year ending March 31 
Once the plan is approved , Tan Sri Basir said , most of Bank Bumiputra 's nonperforming loans will have been fully provided for 
For the previous financial year , the bank would have reported a pretax profit of M$ 168 million 
Malaysia 's Banking Secrecy Act prohibited the bank from identifying delinquent borrowers , said Tan Sri Basir . 
At the end of the exercise , the cash injection from Petronas will increase the bank 's paid-up capital to M$ 1.15 billion 
When the Supreme Court opened the door this year to new restrictions on abortion , Ms. Ehman opened her mind to Democratic politics 
Polls bear out this warning 
Unless he closes the gap , Republicans risk losing not only the governorship but also the assembly next month 
New Jersey 's own highest court remains a liberal bulwark against major restrictions on abortion 
A recent pro-choice rally in Trenton drew thousands 
`` If Webster had n't happened , you would n't be here 
`` We could have shouted from the rooftops about Courter 
Abortion alone ca n't explain this shift 
By a 2-to-1 ratio , voters appear more at ease with Mr. Florio 's stance on abortion 
By a 2-to-1 ratio , voters appear more at ease with Mr. Florio 's stance on abortion , and polls indicate his lead widens 
The Camden County congressman still carries himself with a trademark `` I'm-coming-down-your-throat '' intensity 
After losing by fewer than 1,800 votes in the 1981 governor 's race , he has prepared himself methodically for this moment , including deciding in recent years he could no longer support curbs on federal funding for Medicaid abortions 
`` If you 're going to be consistent and say it is a constitutionally protected right , '' he asks , `` how are you going to say an upscale woman who can drive to the hospital or clinic in a nice car has a constitutional right and someone who is not in great shape financially does not 
The Camden County congressman still carries himself with a trademark `` I'm-coming-down-your-throat '' intensity , but at a pause in Newark 's Columbus Day parade recently , he was dancing with his wife in the middle of the avenue in the city 's old Italian-American ward . 
Looking back , he says he erred by stating his `` personal '' opposition to abortion instead of assuring voters that he would n't impose his views on `` policy '' as governor . 
He hurt himself further this summer by bringing homosexual issues into the debate 
Like many of his colleagues , he did n't serve in Vietnam in the 1960s 
Jack Kemp and the writers Irving Kristol and George Gilder were influences 
The same partnership is now crucial to Mr. Courter 's fortunes 
While the Warren County congressman pursued an anti-government , anti-tax agenda in Washington , Gov. Kean was approving increased income and sales taxes at home and overseeing a near doubling in the size of New Jersey 's budget in his eight years in office 
Kean forces play down any differences with Mr. Courter 
He is warm and polished before a Puerto Rican Congress in Asbury Park . 
Yet minutes after promising to appoint Hispanics to high posts in state government , he is unable to say whether he has ever employed any in his congressional office 
When he is presented with a poster celebrating the organization 's 20th anniversary , he recognizes a photograph of one of the founders and recalls time spent together in Camden 
In the opinion of many , he has n't stopped running since 
Mr. Florio savors this vindication 
Mr. Florio savors this vindication 
He speaks for the death penalty 
Hard-hitting consultants match ads with Mr. Courter 's team 
Appealing to a young audience , he scraps an old reference to Ozzie and Harriet 
The Democratic lawmaker fits a pattern of younger reformers arising out of old machines 
His campaign hierarchy is chosen from elsewhere in the state 
Bill Wames Sr. , 72 , is Catholic too , but unfazed by Mr. Florio 's stand on abortion . 
`` If you want more opinions ask my wife 
The report was the brightest news the financial markets had seen 
The Dow Jones Industrial Average rallied on the news , closing 39.55 points higher at 2683.20 . 
Bond prices also jumped 
Bond prices also jumped as traders appeared to read the data as a sign that interest rates may fall . 
The climb in wholesale energy prices is certain to push up retail energy prices in the next few months , they warned . 
`` We 've had whopping declines in consumer energy prices in each of the past three months 
Because wholesale energy prices shot up by a steep 6.5 % last month , many analysts expected energy prices to rise at the consumer level too 
Because wholesale energy prices shot up by a steep 6.5 % last month , many analysts expected energy prices to rise at the consumer level too . 
As a result , many economists were expecting the consumer price index to increase significantly more than it did . 
Though analysts say competition will probably hold down increases in retail energy prices , many expect some of the wholesale rise to be passed along to the consumer before the end of the year 
Though analysts say competition will probably hold down increases in retail energy prices , many expect some of the wholesale rise to be passed along to the consumer before the end of the year . 
A run-up in world oil prices last winter sent consumer prices soaring at a 6.7 % annual rate in the first five months of this year 
`` Back in 1987-88 , business was operating at fairly tight capacity 
The steep climb in producer prices reported last Friday fostered pessimism about lower interest rates and contributed to the stock market 's 6.9 % plunge that day . 
Analysts say Fed policy makers have been wary of relaxing credit too much 
Excluding the volatile categories of energy and food -- leaving what some economists call the core inflation rate 
Transportation costs actually fell 0.5 % 
Apparel prices rocketed up 1.7 % 
They dropped 0.4 % 
Consumer prices rose a surprisingly moderate 0.2 % in September , pushed up mostly by a jump in clothing costs , the Labor Department reported . 
Separately , the Labor Department reported that average weekly earnings rose 0.3 % in September 
After watching interest in the sport plummet for years , the ski industry is trying to give itself a lift 
Some have built health spas , business centers and shopping villages 
Across the country , resorts are using everything from fireworks to classical-music concerts to attract new customers . 
And this week , the industry 's efforts will go national for the first time 
Competition and mounting insurance and equipment costs have been the undoing of many resorts . 
Skiing , after all , has mainly been for the young and daring 
`` Ski school is great , '' cries out a tot , bundled in a snowsuit 
Ski promotions have traditionally avoided the touchy issue of safety . 
But the new commercials deal with it indirectly by showing a woman smiling 
`` We wanted to show it 's okay 
`` Most people think if you slip , you 'll wind up in a body cast 
The ad campaign represents an unusual spirit of cooperation among resorts and ski equipment makers ; normally , they only run ads hyping their own products and facilities . 
But in these crunch times for the ski industry , some resorts , such as the Angel Fire , Red River and Taos ski areas in New Mexico , have even started shuttle-busing skiers to each other 's slopes and next year plan to sell tickets good for all local lifts . 
Since 40 % of skiers are parents , many slopes are building nurseries , expanding ski schools and adding entertainment for kids 
A few years ago , parents usually had to hire a sitter or take turns skiing 
To make skiing more convenient for time-strapped visitors , several resorts are buying or starting their own travel agencies . In one phone call , ski buffs can make hotel and restaurant reservations , buy lift tickets , rent ski equipment and sign up for lessons . 
And resorts are adding other amenities , such as pricey restaurants , health spas and vacation packages with a twist . 
`` People these days want something else to do 
The ski industry hopes to increase the number of skiers by 3.5 million to about 21.7 million in the next five years with its latest ads and promotions . 
For one thing , it may be tough to attract people 
For one thing , it may be tough to attract people because skiing is still expensive : a lift ticket can cost up to $ 35 a day 
For one thing , it may be tough to attract people because skiing is still expensive : a lift ticket can cost up to $ 35 a day and equipment prices are rising . 
`` Even if they could bring in that many new skiers , I do n't know if -LCB- the industry -RCB- could handle that kind of an increase 
`` Most people will come on the weekend , the slopes will be overcrowded 
`` Most people will come on the weekend , the slopes will be overcrowded 
They did n't play the third game of the World Series on Tuesday night as scheduled 
They did n't play the third game of the World Series on Tuesday night as scheduled , and they did n't play it on Wednesday or Thursday either . 
The theory is that the stadium , damaged by Tuesday 's earthquake , will be repaired by then 
Like just about everything else , that remains to be seen . Aftershocks could intervene . 
It may seem trivial to worry about the World Series amid the destruction to the Bay Area wrought by Tuesday 's quake 
It may seem trivial to worry about the World Series amid the destruction to the Bay Area wrought by Tuesday 's quake , but the name of this column is `` On Sports 
As soon as the tremor passed , many people spontaneously arose and cheered 
As soon as the tremor passed , many people spontaneously arose and cheered 
I thought and , I 'm sure , others did : `` You should n't have bothered 
I 'd slept through my only previous brush with natural disaster , a tornado 15 or so summers ago near Traverse City , 
`` It felt like I was on a station platform 
Dictates of good sense to the contrary not withstanding , the general inclination was to believe that the disturbance would be brief 
`` I was near the top of the stadium , and saw a steel girder bow six feet from where I sat 
`` I guess I thought , ` This is the World Series 
Dictates of good sense to the contrary not withstanding , the general inclination was to believe that the disturbance would be brief and that ball would be played . 
Electrical power was out in still-daylighted Candlestick Park 
The stadium was ordered evacuated soon afterward ; the announcement , made over police bullhorns , cited the power outage 
The stadium was ordered evacuated soon afterward ; the announcement , made over police bullhorns , cited the power outage 
The stadium was ordered evacuated soon afterward ; the announcement , made over police bullhorns , cited the power outage 
TV reporters interviewed fans in the parking lots 
At my hotel , the Westin , power was out , some interior plaster had broken loose 
I expected him to say , `` I told you so 
My response was that sports rarely are important , only diverting 
Flags fly at half-staff for the death of Bart Giamatti , the late baseball commissioner 
A Series that was shaping up as the dullest since the one-sided Detroit-over-San Diego go of 1984 has become memorable in the least fortunate way . 
It now will be played mostly for the record , and should be wrapped up as quickly as possible , without `` off '' days . 
The disarray in the junk-bond market that began last month with a credit crunch at Campeau Corp. has offered commercial banks a golden opportunity to play a greater role in financing billion-dollar takeovers . 
Charles Nathan , co-head of mergers and acquisitions at Salomon Brothers Inc. , says it is natural for banks to try to expand beyond their bread-and-butter business of providing senior debt for buy-outs . 
Mr. Checchi 's purchase of NWA , Mr. Batchelder notes , `` was probably the most aggressive to date , '' with bank debt at 85 % of the purchase price . 
His client , Mr. Davis , used just such a letter from Citicorp in pursuing UAL 
Mark Solow , senior managing director at Manufacturers Hanover Trust Co. , says the falloff in junk bonds may yet open new business opportunities to banks in structuring takeovers . 
But he warns that banks will have `` to have enough discipline '' not to make loans that are too risky . 
`` We did n't take part in a lot of deals 
A Paramount spokesman says that decision was based on the financial , not political , drawbacks of junk bonds . 
In the end , Mr. Davis used junk bonds 
Mr. Checchi 's purchase of NWA , Mr. Batchelder notes , `` was probably the most aggressive to date , '' with bank debt at 85 % of the purchase price . But Mr. Batchelder says that Citicorp 's `` failure to deliver '' on its promise to raise the UAL bank debt for a labor-management buy-out group `` is very distressing to potential users of a ` highly-confident ' letter from commercial banks . '' 
Japanese banks accounted for 50 % of the NWA bank debt , according to a report by Transportation Secretary Samuel Skinner . 
Takanori Mizuno , chief economist of the Institute for Financial Affairs Inc. , a Tokyo research center on finance and economics , says , `` The junk bond market became very jittery 
Harley-Davidson 's complaint claims that the group , led by investor Malcolm I. Glazer , violated securities laws by failing to disclose plans to purchase 15 % of the company 's shares outstanding 
Harley-Davidson 's complaint claims that the group , led by investor Malcolm I. Glazer , violated securities laws by failing to disclose plans to purchase 15 % of the company 's shares outstanding and that when the required Hart-Scott-Rodino filing eventually was made , it did n't disclose the group 's alleged earlier violation of the so-called prior-notice requirements of the law 
Mr. Glazer could n't immediately be reached to comment . 
But when Harley last week publicly questioned the legality of the group 's filing procedures , the Rochester , N.Y. , investor said `` we complied with every law , '' and he denied any wrongdoing 
But when Harley last week publicly questioned the legality of the group 's filing procedures , the Rochester , N.Y. , investor said `` we complied with every law 
The nation 's fourth-largest steelmaker earned $ 18.3 million , or 43 cents a share , compared with $ 61 million , or $ 1.70 a share , a year earlier , when the industry was enjoying peak demand and strong pricing . 
The earnings also mark a significant drop from the second quarter 's $ 45.3 million or $ 1.25 a share . 
The company attributed the earnings drop to lower volume related to seasonal demand and the soft consumer durable market , especially in the automotive sector . 
The company attributed the earnings drop to lower volume related to seasonal demand and the soft consumer durable market , especially in the automotive sector . 
Charles Bradford , an analyst with Merrill Lynch Capital Markets , said higher prices for galvanized and cold-rolled products offset lower prices for bar , hot-rolled and structural steel . 
The company said its integrated steel sector was also hurt by higher raw material , repair and maintenance , and labor costs . 
Inland Chairman Frank W. Luerssen said the company 's short-term outlook is `` clouded by uncertainties in the economy and financial markets . '' 
However , he noted that steel mill bookings are up from early summer levels 
When things are quiet -LRB- low volatility -RRB- , the structures on which markets stand can be relatively inefficient and still perform their functions adequately 
When things are quiet -LRB- low volatility -RRB- , the structures on which markets stand can be relatively inefficient and still perform their functions adequately . 
However , when powerful forces start shaking the market 's structure , the more `` earthquake-resistant '' it is , the better its chance for survival 
That structural lack is crucial 
That structural lack is crucial because investors are the only source of market liquidity . 
When they halt trading , all market liquidity is gone 
When they halt trading , all market liquidity is gone . 
And when any component of the market -- cash , futures or options -- loses liquidity , the price discovery system -LRB- the way prices are determined -RRB- becomes flawed or is lost entirely for a time 
When that happened , `` seismic '' tremors of fear -- much like the shock waves created by an earthquake -- coursed through the market and increased the market 's volatility 
Panic frequently results in irrational behavior . 
When market tremors start , it is crucial that as much information about transaction prices and the supply-demand curve -LRB- buy and sell orders at various prices -RRB- be made available to all , not just to market makers 
Because of a lack of information and access , many investors -- including the very ones whose buying power could restore stability and damp volatility -- are forced to stand on the sidelines 
Market makers buy what investors wish to sell ; their business is reselling these unwanted positions as quickly as possible to other investors , and at a profit . 
As a result , while any one customer may purchase immediacy by selling to a market maker -LRB- which is micro-liquidity for the investor -RRB- , the market as a whole remains in the same circumstances it was before the transaction 
As a result , while any one customer may purchase immediacy by selling to a market maker -LRB- which is micro-liquidity for the investor -RRB- , the market as a whole remains in the same circumstances it was before the transaction : The unwanted position is still an unwanted position ; only the identity of the seller has changed . 
In fact it can be argued that increasing capital commitments by market makers -LRB- a result of some post-1987 crash studies -RRB- 
In fact it can be argued that increasing capital commitments by market makers -LRB- a result of some post-1987 crash studies -RRB- also increases market volatility 
I 'm not certain . 
Some may have forgotten -- and some younger ones may never have experienced -- what it 's like to invest during a recession 
Different tactics are called for 
Different tactics are called for , as losing money becomes easier 
It 's tempting to think these defensive steps can be delayed 
It 's tempting to think these defensive steps can be delayed until a recession is clearly at hand . 
But that may not be possible 
When they do hit , they hit fast 
Though he himself does n't expect a recession soon , Mr. Wyss advises people who do that `` the best thing to be in is long that is , 20-year to 30-year Treasury bonds 
They are worth more 
That effect holds true for both short-term and long-term bonds . 
But short-term bonds ca n't rise too much 
That effect holds true for both short-term and long-term bonds . But short-term bonds ca n't rise too much , because everyone knows they will be redeemed at a preset price fairly soon . Long-term bonds , with many years left before maturity , swing more widely in price . 
As times get tougher , investors fret about whether companies will have enough money to pay their debts 
As times get tougher , investors fret about whether companies will have enough money to pay their debts . 
That means that a corporation , after a specified amount of time has passed , can buy back its bonds by paying investors the face value -LRB- plus , in some cases , a sweetener -RRB- 
When interest rates have dropped , it makes sense for corporations to do just that 
When interest rates have dropped , it makes sense for corporations to do just that 
When interest rates have dropped , it makes sense for corporations to do just that ; they then save on interest costs . 
If corporate bonds are bad in recessions , junk bonds are likely to be the worst of all 
It 's an `` absolute necessity '' to get out of junk bonds 
`` Such bonds are very sensitive to the downside 
Municipal bonds are generally a bit safer than corporate bonds in a recession , but not as safe as bonds issued by the federal government . 
Municipal bonds are generally a bit safer than corporate bonds in a recession , but not as safe as bonds issued by the federal government . 
But a few experts , going against the consensus , do n't think bonds would help investors 
What 's more , he thinks this could be a nastier recession than usual : `` Once the downturn comes , it 's going to be very hard to reverse 
Investors , he advises , `` should be cautious , '' holding fewer stocks than usual 
Because he sees a `` 5 % to 6 % base rate of inflation in the economy , '' he doubts that interest rates will fall much any time soon 
Investors , he advises , `` should be cautious , '' holding fewer stocks than usual and also shunning bonds . 
Instead , Mr. Beach says , investors `` probably should be carrying a very high level of cash , '' by which he means such so-called cash equivalents as money-market funds and Treasury bills . 
He believes that the task facing Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan is so difficult that it resembles `` juggling a double-bladed ax and a buzz saw . '' 
For people who can ride out market waves through good times and bad , stocks have been rewarding long-term investments . 
Moreover , because no one knows for sure just when a recession is coming , some analysts think investors should n't even worry too much about timing 
Frequent trading runs up high commission costs . 
Mr. Katz adds that people who jump in and out of the stock market need to be right about 70 % of the time to beat a buy-and-hold strategy . Frequent trading runs up high commission costs . And the in-and-outer might miss the sudden spurts that account for much of the stock market 's gains over time . 
Still , few investors are able to sit tight 
According to Ned Davis , president of Ned Davis Research Inc. in Nokomis , Fla. , the average drop in the Dow Jones Industrial Average was about 21 % 
According to Ned Davis , president of Ned Davis Research Inc. in Nokomis , Fla. , the average drop in the Dow Jones Industrial Average was about 21 % , and the decrease began 
By the time a recession is `` official '' -LRB- two consecutive quarters of declining gross national product -RRB- , much of the damage to stocks has already been done 
About six months before a recession ends , stocks typically begin to rise again 
About six months before a recession ends , stocks typically begin to rise again 
The average recession lasts about a year . 
Unfortunately , though , recessions vary enough in length 
Unfortunately , though , recessions vary enough in length so that the average ca n't reliably be used to guide investors in timing stock sales or purchases . 
In good times , he says , they lag a bit 
`` Low P-E '' stocks , he says , vastly outperform others `` during a recession or bear market . '' In good times , he says , they lag a bit , but overall they provide superior performance . 
Prof. Arbel urges investors to discard stocks in small companies . Small-company shares typically fall more than big-company stocks in a recession , he says . 
And in any case , he argues , stocks of small companies are `` almost as overpriced as they were Sept. 30 , 1987 , just before the crash . '' 
That ratio is dangerously close to the ratio of 19.7 that prevailed before the 1987 stock-market crash , Mr. Arbel says . 
Recession or not , people still eat , smoke , and take medicine 
`` If the recession does hit , there will be some great investment opportunities just when things seem the blackest 
`` If the recession does hit , there will be some great investment opportunities 
Bond prices posted strong gains 
Bond prices posted strong gains as investors went on a bargain hunt . 
But while the overall market improved , the new-issue junk-bond market continued to count casualties 
But while the overall market improved , the new-issue junk-bond market continued to count casualties 
Yesterday , Prudential-Bache Securities Inc. said it postponed a $ 220 million senior subordinated debenture offering by York International Corp . 
Salomon Brothers Inc. has delayed Grand Union Co. 's $ 1.16 billion junk-bond offering 
`` Everything is going through firehoops right now 
Dan Baldwin , managing director of high-yield investments at Chancellor Capital Management , said the Chicago & North Western offering was restructured 
If you 're going to take the risk in this market , you want something extra 
Mr. Baldwin likes the offering . 
While they consider the Chicago & North Western issue to be good , they do n't view it as the best 
The gain reflects fresh economic evidence that inflation is moderating 
The Labor Department reported that consumer prices rose just 0.2 % last month , slightly lower than some economists had expected . 
The Labor Department reported that consumer prices rose just 0.2 % last month , slightly lower than some economists had expected . 
But there were also rumors yesterday that several Japanese institutional investors were shifting their portfolios and buying long-term bonds 
Short-term Treasury securities ended narrowly mixed , with two-year notes posting slight declines 
The discount rate on three-month Treasury bills rose to 7.56 % from 7.51 % Wednesday 
Short-term rates rose yesterday . 
Rates are determined by the difference between the purchase price and face value . 
Thus , higher bidding narrows the investor 's return 
The percentage rates are calculated on a 360-day year 
Petrolane Gas Service 's 13 1\/4 % debentures traded at 102 
Petrolane Gas Service 's 13 1\/4 % debentures traded at 102 , after trading around par earlier this week 
Petrolane Gas Service 's 13 1\/4 % debentures traded at 102 , after trading around par earlier this week , and RJR 's 13 1\/2 % subordinated debentures of 2001 were at 101 5\/8 
Activity was brisk in the high-grade general obligation market 
According to market participants , the bonds were met with decent bids 
The debt of some California issuers pulled off lows reached after Tuesday 's massive earthquake 
California expects to rely on federal emergency funds and its $ 1.06 billion in general fund reserves to meet the estimated $ 500 million to $ 1 billion in damages resulting from the quake , according to a state official . 
It 's also unclear precisely how the state will rebuild its reserve 
Activity was brisk in the high-grade general obligation market , as a series of sell lists hit the Street and capped upward price movement in the sector . Away from the general obligation sector , activity was modest . 
If the refinancing plan clears Congress , there could be fairly heavy prepayments on the premium securities 
In the current-coupon sector , a shift in the Treasury yield curve resulting from the better performance of long-dated issues over short-dated securities hurt major coupons 
Ginnie Mae 9 % securities ended at 98 6\/32 , up 9\/32 
The Ginnie Mae 9 % issue was yielding 9.42 % to a 12-year average life assumption 
While Remic issuance may slow in the coming days because of the shift in the Treasury yield curve , underwriters continued to crank out new real estate mortgage investment conduits structured when the yield curve was more favorable 
While Remic issuance may slow in the coming days because of the shift in the Treasury yield curve , underwriters continued to crank out new real estate mortgage investment conduits structured 
British government bonds ended little changed 
The Treasury 11 3\/4 % bond due 2003\/2007 was down 2\/32 at 111 29\/32 to yield 10.09 % 
In Japan , the bellwether No. 111 4.6 % bond of 1998 ended off 0.03 at 95.72 , to yield 5.32 % 
British Airways PLC , a crucial participant in the proposed buy-out of UAL Corp. , washed its hands of the current efforts to revive a bid for the parent of United Airlines . 
Specifically , the British carrier said it currently has no plans to participate in any new offer for UAL . 
Specifically , the British carrier said it currently has no plans to participate in any new offer for UAL . 
Company officials said later that British Airways believes its involvement in the UAL buy-out 
The carrier stopped short of saying it would n't at some point reconsider participating in any new bid for UAL . 
The transaction has had a series of setbacks since the financing problems became known last Friday , with no signs or statements from the buy-out group to indicate that any progress has taken place 
The transaction has had a series of setbacks since the financing problems became known last Friday , with no signs or statements from the buy-out group to indicate that any progress has taken place . 
In another setback yesterday , United 's machinist union asked the Treasury Department to investigate whether certain aspects of the original buy-out proposal violated tax laws . 
The United flight-attendants union agreed to negotiations that could lead to the flight attendants contributing concessions to a revived bid in exchange for an ownership stake . 
Still , without the assurance of British Airways ' financial backing , it will be tougher for the buy-out group to convince already-reluctant banks to make loan commitments for a revised bid 
In an interview Wednesday with Dow Jones Professional Investor Report , Mr. Stevens said , `` We 're in no way committed to a deal going through at all . We 're not rushing into anything . We do n't want to be party to a second rejection . '' 
The original transaction fell through on the same day British Air shareholders approved the plan at a special meeting 
Indeed , British Air seemed to be distancing itself from the troubled transaction early in an effort to avoid any further embarrassment . 
`` The -LCB- buy-out -RCB- consortium ceased to exist 
British Airways may have begun to have second thoughts about the transaction 
The leaders expressed support for trying to revive the bid following a briefing Wednesday by the union 's advisers , Lazard Freres & Co. and Paul , Weiss , Rifkind Wharton & Garrison . 
UAL 's advisers have indicated previously that it may take a while to come forward with a revised plan 
UAL 's advisers have indicated previously that it may take a while to come forward with a revised plan since they want to have firm bank commitments 
The buy-out fell through 
Domestic wholesale sales rose 11.9 % from a year earlier 
Sales of consumer goods rose 6.9 % in the same period 
The plan was complete except for finishing touches 
The plan was complete except for finishing touches , and there was talk that it would be unveiled as early as yesterday . 
Sen. Mitchell urged them to desist . 
Having only a Republican measure makes the task harder . Having a proposal sponsored by Democrats would have given the president an advantage . 
He said a clear majority of senators back the tax reduction 
He said a clear majority of senators back the tax reduction 
He said a clear majority of senators back the tax reduction and that ultimately there would be enough senators to overcome any procedural hurdle the Democratic leadership might erect . 
The president apparently will have only one bill to push , Sen. Packwood 's 
`` I may want to offer additional amendments to improve it 
The exclusion would rise five percentage points for each year the asset was held 
The Packwood plan , as expected , would allow individuals to exclude from income 5 % of the gain from the sale of a capital asset held for more than one year . 
The Packwood plan , as expected , would allow individuals to exclude from income 5 % of the gain from the sale of a capital asset held for more than one year . 
In the latest nine months , Mr. Hutchinson said , total coal sales rose to about 14.6 million tons from about 14.3 million tons a year earlier . 
Even perks have been reduced . 
`` I think the ship is now righted , the bilges are pumped 
`` I think the ship is now righted , the bilges are pumped and we are on course , '' Mr. Hutchinson said of the restructuring program . 
But he cautioned that Westmoreland 's third quarter is typically better than the fourth 
One difference , he said , is that the fourth quarter has significantly fewer workdays because of holidays and the hunting season . 
Nevertheless , Mr. Hutchinson predicted that 1989 would be `` solidly profitable '' for Westmoreland 
`` Coal prices , while not skyrocketing , will grow modestly in real terms 
Chase Manhattan Corp. , after trying unsuccessfully to sell its interest in its lower Manhattan operations building , has exercised its option to purchase the 50-story office tower 
Of that amount , $ 20 million was payment for the land underneath the building 
The building houses about 4,500 Chase workers , most of whom will be moved to downtown Brooklyn 
As part of its decision to leave the building , Chase tried to sell its interest , along with the Atlas estate 's interest 
Chase Senior Vice President George Scandalios said the bank decided to exercise its option 
Chase is vacating 1.1 million square feet of space 
Chase is vacating 1.1 million square feet of space 
Chase is vacating 1.1 million square feet of space , and Salomon Brothers Inc. , whose headquarters is in the building , also plans to move shortly . 
Even with its striking views of the New York harbor , the building is considered antiquated by modern office standards . 
Wall Street has n't gotten that far yet 
When something undeniably nasty happens , a few euphemisms are deployed to simply make it disappear 
When something undeniably nasty happens , a few euphemisms are deployed to simply make it disappear 
When something undeniably nasty happens , a few euphemisms are deployed to simply make it disappear , much as a fresh grave may be covered by a blanket of flowers . 
Trotting out a much-beloved Streetspeak term , New York Stock Exchange Chairman John Phelan recently declared that history would record the event as only `` a major technical correction . '' 
-LRB- Another much-beloved saying , however , this one in plain English , holds that if something walks like a duck and quacks like a duck , it is a duck 
These people used to be called brokers 
The transmogrified brokers never let the C-word cross their lips 
The transmogrified brokers never let the C-word cross their lips , instead stressing such terms as `` safe , '' `` insured '' and `` guaranteed 
What could imply more safety than investing in government bonds ? What could be better than getting a tad more income from them -LRB- the plus -RRB- than other people ? 
Indeed , conservative investors , many of them elderly , have poured more than $ 50 billion into such funds 
When a certain class of investment performs so poorly that its reputation is tarnished , look for Wall Street to give it a new moniker 
In others a familiar old name still prevails 
In others a familiar old name still prevails , but the underlying game has changed . 
For example , `` no load '' mutual funds remain a favorite with investors 
For example , `` no load '' mutual funds remain a favorite with investors because they do n't carry a frontend sales commission . 
Traditional no-loads made their money by charging an annual management fee , usually a modest one ; they imposed no other fees 
Traditional no-loads made their money by charging an annual management fee , usually a modest one ; they imposed no other fees , and many still do n't . 
In recent years , though , a passel of others flying the no-load flag have been imposing hefty charges -- all the way up to 6 % 
The mutual-fund industry is debating the question 
The mutual-fund industry is debating the question , but do n't expect a new name 
The mutual-fund industry is debating the question , but do n't expect a new name while the old one is working so well . 
And do n't expect anyone to change the term `` blue chip , '' either 
American Telephone & Telegraph Co. , for one , is still a favorite of widows , orphans and trust departments 
And do n't expect anyone to change the term `` blue chip , '' either , even though some of the companies that still enjoy the title may be riskier investments than they were . 
Larry Biehl , a money manager in San Mateo , Calif. , blames that on the advent of program trading , in which computers used by big institutional investors are programmed to buy and sell big blocks 
And do n't expect anyone to change the term `` blue chip , '' either , even though some of the companies that still enjoy the title may be riskier investments than they were . For example , `` no load '' mutual funds remain a favorite with investors because they do n't carry a frontend sales commission . Getting out of them , however , may be a different story now . Also , blue chips in general have suffered much more short-term price volatility in recent years . 
If the whole story were told , it would read something like this 
-- During the 1970s the commercial banks lured the country loan business away from the bond markets where the discipline of a prospectus and `` Use of Proceeds '' confirmation allowed lenders to audit expenditures of old loans 
-- The banks will threaten not to make further loans 
Berkshire Hathaway earlier this year bought $ 600 million of preferred stock in Gillette that is convertible into an 11 % stake 
Gillette Co. elected Warren E. Buffett , chairman of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. , to its board , increasing the number of directors to 12 from 11 . 
Separately , Gillette said its third-quarter earnings rose 2 % to $ 65.2 million , or 57 cents a share , from $ 63.9 million , or 57 cents a share , in the year-earlier period ; per-share earnings remained flat despite an increase in net income 
When Walter Yetnikoff , the president of Sony Corp. 's CBS Records , last month told producer Peter Guber that Sony was about to make a $ 3.4 billion bid for Columbia Pictures and needed someone to run the studio , Mr. Guber jumped at the chance 
Within two days , he was on his way to New York and Tokyo to meet with top brass at Sony . 
And before the week was out , Sony had offered Mr. Guber and his partner , Jon Peters , the most lucrative employment contracts in the history of the movie business 
And before the week was out , Sony had offered Mr. Guber and his partner , Jon Peters , the most lucrative employment contracts in the history of the movie business . 
Just seven months earlier , they had signed a five-year exclusive contract to make movies for Warner Bros. for which they had just produced the smash hit `` Batman . '' 
That two successful producers who are n't all that well known outside Hollywood could occasion such a clash of corporate titans suggests how desperate the quest for proven talent is in the movie business . 
And they are a very odd team in any case . 
Yet , they are far and away the most prolific producers in Hollywood . 
Although Columbia had a good summer with `` Ghostbusters II '' and `` When Harry Met Sally , '' rivals such as Warner , Paramount Pictures , Walt Disney Co. and Universal Studios have been thrashing Columbia at the box office 
Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters are n't universally loved in Hollywood 
Their stock in trade as `` executive producers '' is sniffing out hot properties , locking them up 
It falls to others to do the writing , directing and producing . Sometimes Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters do little more than grab the first draft of a screenplay for a `` Flashdance , '' or buy rights to a best seller such as `` The Color Purple . '' 
With MGM\/UA 's `` Rainman , '' for instance , Messrs. Guber and Peters had virtually nothing to do with day-to-day production 
With MGM\/UA 's `` Rainman , '' for instance , Messrs. Guber and Peters had virtually nothing to do with day-to-day production , but their names still appear in big letters on the credits 
On that film , which is to start shooting in a few months , `` they 've been very much involved , hiring talent and discussing the development of the script . 
And when you 're making a movie this big , you need all the help you can get 
On that film , which is to start shooting in a few months , `` they 've been very much involved , hiring talent and discussing the development of the script . And when you 're making a movie this big , you need all the help you can get , '' Mr. De Palma adds . 
`` We 've had a few bombs , '' admits Mr. Peters . 
Longtime Hollywood associates describe Mr. Guber as the intellectual powerhouse of the two , a man with a flair for deal-making and marketing . 
Mr. Peters , on the other hand , has fewer fans in Hollywood 
He gets better reviews as a creative whiz , an enthusiast , an idea man . 
Thrice married but now single , Mr. Peters got plenty of ink last summer for an on-set romance with actress Kim Basinger during the making of `` Batman . '' 
Thrice married but now single , Mr. Peters got plenty of ink last summer for an on-set romance with actress Kim Basinger during the making of `` Batman . '' Mr. Guber , by contrast , has been married to one woman for more than 20 years . 
`` Peter is the bright , sympathetic guy 
`` If there 's a problem , Peter disappears , and all of a sudden Jon shows up 
`` If there 's a problem , Peter disappears 
Producers Don Simpson and Jerry Bruckheimer , who shepherded `` Flashdance '' through several scripts 
Producers Don Simpson and Jerry Bruckheimer , who shepherded `` Flashdance '' through several scripts and ultimately produced the movie , bristle 
When Roger Birnbaum , an executive who worked for Guber Peters in the early 1980s , left to take a job as head of production at the United Artists studio , they made him forfeit all credits and financial interest in the films he had helped develop , including `` Rainman '' and `` Batman 
`` I was upset with Roger , I fumpered and schmumpered , '' says Mr. Peters . 
`` But he wanted to pursue his own dream 
When Roger Birnbaum , an executive who worked for Guber Peters in the early 1980s , left to take a job as head of production at the United Artists studio , they made him forfeit all credits and financial interest in the films he had helped develop , including `` Rainman '' and `` Batman . '' 
The two `` have a wonderful chemistry -- Jon is very impulsive 
Universal Studios was working on a competing film 
Universal Studios was working on a competing film 
Some of the money will go to the Chico Mendes Foundation 
It 's hardly astonishing -LRB- given the men 's track record -RRB- that Sony wants Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters . 
Some note that Sony might have saved itself some trouble by just hiring Mr. Guber and letting Mr. Peters stay on to fulfill the Warner contract . 
But though `` people in town may ask why Guber needs Peters , it 's good to have a partner , and obviously the chemistry works 
But though `` people in town may ask why Guber needs Peters , it 's good to have a partner 
In 1980 , Mr. Guber got together with Mr. Peters , by then a successful producer in his own right 
While Guber Peters produced a number of hits for Warner and others , their record was n't always so impressive 
Among their clinkers were `` The Legend of Billie Jean , '' `` VisionQuest , '' `` Clue '' and `` Clan of the Cave Bear . '' 
Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters maintain that executives at Warner have always known of their ambitions to run a major entertainment powerhouse 
Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters maintain that executives at Warner have always known of their ambitions to run a major entertainment powerhouse , but that Warner never felt threatened 
`` They always listened 
In July a year later , Warner agreed to release the producers from their old contract 
Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters planned to run the nearly dormant MGM studio 
Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters planned to run the nearly dormant MGM studio , and the two even tried to interest Warner Bros . ' President Terry Semel in becoming a partner 
Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters planned to run the nearly dormant MGM studio , and the two even tried to interest Warner Bros . ' President Terry Semel in becoming a partner after he advised them on the deal . 
But the MGM plan collapsed just two weeks later . 
Last May , he sold his 24 % stake in Barris to a passive Australian investor 
Last May , he sold his 24 % stake in Barris to a passive Australian investor and Barris was renamed Guber Peters Entertainment Co . 
The new deal was considered the most generous of its kind , both financially and in terms of creative freedom . 
But it paled by comparison to what Sony was to offer last month : the chance , at last , to run a major studio , about $ 50 million in deferred compensation , up to 10 % of Columbia 's future cash flow , 8 % of the future appreciation of Columbia 's market value , and annual salaries of $ 2.7 million for each . 
Sony is paying a hefty price for a company that had revenue of only $ 42 million last year . 
Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters claim they have an oral agreement with Warner executives that allows them to terminate their contract should the opportunity to run a major studio arise . 
For one thing , according to Mr. Daly , the producers requested a release in advance . 
Moreover , the old contract was about to expire 
Warner itself was in negotiations with MGM over certain movie and other rights 
At the very least , Mr. Ross clearly sees an opportunity to use the two men to get a pound of flesh from Sony . 
Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters refuse to concede that they may have made a tactical error in accepting the Sony offer 
Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters refuse to concede that they may have made a tactical error in accepting the Sony offer before taking it up with Warner . 
The last time Columbia Pictures was looking for a studio chief , they note , Warner released producer David Puttnam from his contract 
The last time Columbia Pictures was looking for a studio chief , they note , Warner released producer David Puttnam from his contract , then took him back 
In his affidavit filed yesterday , Warner 's Mr. Ross indicated he is n't buying any such argument : `` If Sony succeeds here , no written contract in Hollywood will be worth the paper it 's written on 
First , there 's the name : `` asset-backed securities . '' Better than all those offers you get to buy securities backed by nothing . 
The assets backing the securities come from some of the country 's biggest -- and most secure -- institutions . Most earn high ratings from credit agencies . Their yields are higher than those of U.S. Treasury issues . 
The concept may be simple : Take a bunch of loans , tie them up in one neat package , and sell pieces of the package to investors . 
They warn that asset-backed securities are only as good as the assets and credit backing that support them 
They warn that asset-backed securities are only as good as the assets and credit backing that support them -- and those are hard to evaluate . 
Skeptics say the slightly higher returns are n't enough to compensate for the extra risk . They warn that asset-backed securities are only as good as the assets and credit backing that support them -- and those are hard to evaluate . Moreover , the securities were introduced only about 4 1\/2 years ago ; the biggest unknown is how they will fare in a recession . 
They have sold issues backed by car loans , boat loans and recreational-vehicle loans . They have offered bundles of homeequity loans , as well as packages of loans used to buy vacation time-shares . Last year , there was an issue of `` death-backed bonds '' -- securities backed by loans to life-insurance policyholders . Some predict there will be `` Third World bonds , '' backed by loans to Brazil , Argentina and other debt-ridden nations . 
`` Before the sun sets on the '80s , it seems nothing will be left unhocked 
Most issues have been sold to professional money managers , pension funds , bank trust departments and other institutions . 
Most issues have been sold to professional money managers , pension funds , bank trust departments and other institutions . 
But wealthy individuals also have been jumping in 
The process typically begins 
The process typically begins when an institution , such as Citibank or Sears , Roebuck & Co. , takes a pool of credit-card or other receivables and sells them to a specially created trust . 
Issues typically come with `` credit enhancements , '' such as a bank letter of credit 
Enthusiasts say the booming market has opened up a valuable new source of funds to issuers 
Asset-backed securities `` are an attractive investment compared to bank certificates of deposit or other corporate bonds , '' says Craig J. Goldberg , managing director and head of the asset-backed securities group at Merrill Lynch Capital Markets . 
That kind of spread can be critical for money managers who buy bonds in large quantities 
That kind of spread can be critical for money managers who buy bonds in large quantities and whose livelihood depends on outperforming the money manager across the street . 
`` If you 're in the bond business playing the relative-performance derby 
`` If you 're in the bond business playing the relative-performance derby , then even an extra 25 basis points -LRB- 0.25 percentage point -RRB- becomes an important consideration on a career basis , '' says Mr. Grant . 
`` But if you 're an individual investing money and trying to get it back again 
But for individuals who buy much smaller amounts and care less about relative performance than in preserving what they have , that margin is meaningless . 
Moreover , the interest on asset-backed securities is fully taxable 
That 's why some investment managers , such as Alex Powers , a vice president of Chase Manhattan Bank 's private banking division , do n't recommend most asset-backed issues for individuals in high-tax states , such as New York or California . 
That could make it tricky for investors who need to sell their holdings quickly 
`` You could see massive gyrations here 
The secondary , or resale , market for asset-backed securities is relatively new and much less active than for Treasury issues . 
Evaluating asset-backed securities poses another problem . 
The front cover of the prospectus for the Citibank credit-card receivables offering points out in bold capital letters that the certificates represent an interest only in the specially created trust and `` do not represent interests in or obligations of the banks , Citibank N.A. , Citicorp or any affiliate thereof . '' 
In other words , if there 's a problem , do n't expect Citibank to come to the rescue 
The front cover of the prospectus for the Citibank credit-card receivables offering points out in bold capital letters that the certificates represent an interest only in the specially created trust and `` do not represent interests in or obligations of the banks , Citibank N.A. , Citicorp or any affiliate thereof . '' 
Evaluating asset-backed securities poses another problem . 
The letter of credit typically is not offered by the bank selling the assets to back the securities . 
Details of credit enhancements vary widely from issue to issue . 
Still , they play a crucial role in winning top ratings for most asset-backed issues 
Still , they play a crucial role in winning top ratings for most asset-backed issues -- which in turn is why the yield above Treasurys is so slim . 
But skeptics ask why you should bother buying this stuff 
When you buy an asset-backed issue , you take the risk that a bank or an insurer could run into unexpected difficulties 
If a bank 's credit rating was lowered because of , say , its loans to Third World nations , that could also affect the ratings , liquidity and prices of the asset-backed issues that the bank supports 
If a bank 's credit rating was lowered because of , say , its loans to Third World nations 
Underwriters insist these issues are constructed to withstand extremely tough economic conditions . 
That could widen the yield spread between Treasurys and asset-backed securities , as well as make it tougher to unload the latter . 
For one thing , credit-card loans are unsecured . 
`` A day of reckoning is coming where we think the market will place a high premium on the highest-quality debt issues 
`` A day of reckoning is coming where we think the market will place a high premium on the highest-quality debt issues 
All this makes asset-backed securities seem too risky for many people . 
IF YOU FORCE financial planners to sum up their most important advice in a single sentence , it would probably be a one-word sentence : Diversify 
By spreading their wealth among several investment alternatives , the respondents have protected themselves against squalls in any one area , be it stocks , bonds or real estate . 
For example , about 88 % of Journal readers owned stock -LRB- down slightly from 91 % in a similar poll last year -RRB- . 
For example , about 88 % of Journal readers owned stock -LRB- down slightly from 91 % in a similar poll last year -RRB- . But only 17.5 % said they had more than half their money in the stock market . 
Similarly , 57 % of respondents own shares in a money-market mutual fund 
Similarly , 57 % of respondents own shares in a money-market mutual fund , and 33 % own municipal bonds . 
Judging by a poll of Wall Street Journal readers conducted this summer by Erdos & Morgan Inc. , serious investors have taken that advice to heart . 
The response rate , more than 63 % , allows the results to be interpreted with a high degree of confidence . 
Nearly half of the respondents -LRB- 47 % -RRB- said their investment portfolio was worth $ 250,000 or more 
The respondents were mildly optimistic about the economy and investment markets 
The respondents were mildly optimistic about the economy and investment markets , but their collective judgments were a notch more sober than they were a year ago . 
Some 50 % expect real estate in their local area to increase in value over the next 12 months . Apparently , the respondents do n't think that an economic slowdown would harm the major investment markets very much . A slim majority -LRB- 51 % -RRB- think stock prices will be higher in August 1990 than they were in August 1989 . Their verdict on real estate is almost the same . 
Since gold tends to soar when inflation is high , that finding suggests that people believe inflation remains under control 
Since gold tends to soar 
Even though only 12 % actually predicted a recession , many respondents were taking a better-safe-than sorry investment stance 
The two-thirds who have n't tried to make their portfolios more recession-resistant were split about evenly between investors who `` do n't believe in trying to predict the markets '' -LRB- about 31 % -RRB- and investors who `` do n't expect a recession '' -LRB- about 15 % -RRB- or are `` unsure 
A buy-and-hold approach to stocks continues to be the rule among respondents . 
About 33 % considered another crash `` likely 
About 33 % considered another crash `` likely , '' while about 63 % said one is `` unlikely . '' Those percentages hardly changed from the previous year 's poll . 
About 60 % of them said they would `` ordinarily '' have at least 25 % of their money in stocks . 
Most stock-market indexes were hitting all-time highs at around the time of the poll . 
Moody 's said it expects Valley National , of Phoenix , Ariz. , to make substantial further provisions against its real-estate portfolio 
Any secret can be pirated 
Even rank amateurs can do it 
Even though electronic espionage may cost U.S. firms billions of dollars a year , most are n't yet taking precautions 
Even though electronic espionage may cost U.S. firms billions of dollars a year , most are n't yet taking precautions , the experts said . 
Already many foreign firms , especially banks , have their own cryptographers , conference speakers reported . 
One expert , whose job is so politically sensitive that he spoke on condition that he would n't be named or quoted , said the expected influx of East European refugees over the next few years will greatly increase the chances of computer-maintenance workers , for example , doubling as foreign spies . 
Moreover , he said , technology now exists for stealing corporate secrets 
He said that Oliver North of Iran-Contra notoriety thought he had erased his computer 
He said that Oliver North of Iran-Contra notoriety thought he had erased his computer 
Under Mr. Gorbachev , Mr. Goode said , the Soviets are openly stealing Western corporate communications . He cited the case of a Swiss oil trader who recently put out bids via telex for an oil tanker to pick up a cargo of crude in the Middle East . Among the responses the Swiss trader got was one from the Soviet national shipping company , which had n't been invited to submit a bid . 
The Soviets ' eavesdropping paid off , however 
The University said the two companies agreed to spend 25 million Canadian dollars -LRB- $ 21.3 million -RRB- over 10 years on research at Canadian universities 
Ciba-Geigy and Chiron have made a joint bid of C$ 866 million for Connaught 
The university implied that it would drop its opposition to foreign ownership 
Ciba-Geigy is a Swiss pharmaceutical company 
The University is seeking an injunction against the Merieux bid , arguing that Connaught 's predecessor company agreed in 1972 that Connaught 's ownership would n't be transferred to foreigners . 
While he did n't comment directly on the pact between Ciba-Geigy and the university , he said Merieux can transfer new products and technologies to Connaught more rapidly than other companies `` not currently producing and marketing vaccines -LCB- who -RCB- can only promise this for some ... years in the future 
Leading the pack , Microsoft soared 3 3\/4 , or 4 % , to a record price of 84 1\/4 on 1.2 million shares . 
On the other hand , Valley National tumbled 24 % 
The OTC market 's largest stocks soared as well 
The OTC market 's largest stocks soared as well , as the Nasdaq 100 Index jumped 10.01 , or 2 % , to 463.06 . The Nasdaq Financial Index rose 5.04 , or 1.1 % , to 460.33 . 
The Nasdaq industrial index climbed 8.17 to 458.52 
Of the 4,346 issues that changed hands , 1,435 rose 
Jeremiah Mullins , head of OTC trading at Dean Witter Reynolds , said both institutional and retail investors were buying . 
But there was a dearth of sellers 
After the earnings were announced , he raised his fiscal 1990 estimate to between $ 3.80 and $ 4 a share 
Among other software issues , Autodesk jumped 1 1\/4 to 42 , Lotus Development was unchanged at 32 1\/2 , Novell jumped 7\/8 to 30 3\/4 , Ashton-Tate gained 1\/4 to 10 5\/8 
Valley National said its $ 110 million provision for credit losses and $ 11 million provision for other real estate owned is related to weakness in the Arizona real estate market . 
The offering was for about 2.8 million shares of the data storage equipment maker ; more than 2.2 million shares changed hands 
It was five in the afternoon 
Back in New York the work day was already over 
Back in New York the work day was already over , so I did n't have to feel guilty . 
Even still , I did feel self-indulgent 
This ballpark , the Stick , was not a classic baseball stadium -- too symmetrical , too much bald concrete . 
This ballpark , the Stick , was not a classic baseball stadium -- too symmetrical , too much bald concrete . And it did n't have the crowded wild intimacy of Yankee Stadium . 
Why not watch or hear your experience historicized 
Players ran out on the field way below 
It must be a local custom , I thought , stamping feet to welcome the team . 
Players ran out on the field way below , and the stands began to reverberate . 
But then the noise turned into a roar . 
No one around me was saying anything . 
Only at the moment of maximum roll did I grasp what was going on . 
When the swaying of the building woke me up , I reasoned that a -RRB- I was in Southern California ; b -RRB- the bed was moving ; c -RRB- it must be a Magic Fingers bed that had short-circuited 
When the swaying of the building woke me up , I reasoned that a -RRB- I was in Southern California ; b -RRB- the bed was moving ; c -RRB- it must be a Magic Fingers bed that had short-circuited . 
Get out of the possibly collapsing building to the parking lot . 
But the lot might split into crevasses 
Fortunately , the quake was over 
At the Stick , while the world shook , I thought of that morning 
At the Stick , while the world shook , I thought of that morning 
At the Stick , while the world shook , I thought of that morning 
If I survived , I would have achieved every journalist 's highest wish 
The real tragedies occurred elsewhere , as we soon found out . 
The wall behind me was slightly deformed 
A young mother found her boy , who had been out buying a hotdog . The wall behind me was slightly deformed , but the center had held . 
And most of us waited for a while for the game to start . 
In this way , while the Stick itself was blacked out , we kept up to date on events 
Increasingly accurate estimates of the severity of the quake became available 
Increasingly accurate estimates of the severity of the quake became available before I got to my car . 
Increasingly accurate estimates of the severity of the quake became available before I got to my car . 
Darkness fell . 
But the broadcasts continued through the blacked-out night , with pictures of the sandwiched highway ganglion in Oakland and firefighting in the Marina district . 
Everyone at the Stick that day had started out as a spectator and ended up as a participant . 
The reporters were victims 
The outstanding example of this was the motorist on the Bay Bridge who had the presence of mind to take out a video camera at the absolutely crucial moment and record the car in front 
The tape was on tv 
The plunge made Shearson 's market commentary instantly out of date . 
Shearson , a 62%-owned unit of American Express Co. , did n't have enough time to update its market commentary 
The first thought some investors had was that a red-faced Shearson must have been wildly bullish on stocks in its original commentary 
The first thought some investors had was that a red-faced Shearson must have been wildly bullish on stocks in its original commentary , and that 's why it purged its pages . 
But Mr. Rivkin insists that the 10 pages were n't pulled 
But Mr. Rivkin insists that the 10 pages were n't pulled because they were too bullish . 
Instead , he says , `` they were cautious 
As Mr. Rivkin explains it , `` We were raising some caution flags about rate rises in Europe and concerns about the LBO market . 
Retail sales are plummeting 
A lengthy recession , if it materializes , would drain state coffers and create severe hardships for urban workers 
Unless the government suddenly reverses course , wages for most workers wo n't keep pace with inflation , creating a potential source of urban unrest 
-LRB- Industrial output surged 21 % in 1988 
The economy 's slowdown is due only partly to the austerity program launched in September 1988 to cool an overheated economy and tame inflation . 
In Western , market-driven countries , recessions often have a bright side : prodding the economy to greater efficiency . 
In China , however , there is n't likely to be any silver lining 
In China , however , there is n't likely to be any silver lining because the economy remains guided primarily by the state . 
In China , however , there is n't likely to be any silver lining because the economy remains guided primarily by the state . 
Nor are any of these inefficient monoliths likely to be allowed to go bankrupt . 
Rather , the brunt of the slowdown will be felt in the fast-growing private and semi-private `` township '' enterprises , which have fallen into disfavor 
`` When the going gets rough , China penalizes the efficient and rewards the incompetent 
Reports of an economy near recession come 
The meeting is expected to call for heightened austerity for two years . 
A dangerous buildup this year of billions of dollars in inter-company debts threatens , if unchecked , to bring the economy to a collapse 
One sign of a possible easing of credit policy was the decision this week of People 's Bank of China , the central bank , to allocate $ 5.4 billion in short-term loans to pay farmers for the autumn harvest , the official China Daily reported . 
But while pumping more money into the economy would bring relief to many industries , it also runs the risk of triggering another period of runaway growth and steep inflation 
But while pumping more money into the economy would bring relief to many industries 
The cycle has been repeated several times 
The cycle has been repeated several times since China began reforming its planned economy in 1979 . 
And , because China 's leaders have abandoned plans to drastically reform the economy , it is likely to continue 
In an unusually direct statement , the bureau spokesman recommended that state banks extend more credit to shopkeepers 
`` This will prevent a slide in industrial production 
The 1986 tax overhaul , the biggest achievement of President Reagan 's second term , is beginning to fall apart 
Big auction houses want to make collectibles eligible for lower capital-gains taxes . 
The Senate Finance Committee voted to expand the deduction for individual retirement accounts 
The Senate Finance Committee voted to expand the deduction for individual retirement accounts , and also to bring back income averaging for farmers , a tax preference that allows income to be spread out over several years . 
To be sure , the full Senate , facing a fast-approaching budget deadline , last Friday stripped away all of the tax breaks that were contained in the Finance Committee bill . 
`` It 's a Swiss-cheese factory 
In reaction to proposed capital-gains legislation , groups are lobbying to make sure they are n't left off the gravy train . 
`` If there is going to be a tax scheme that contemplates lower treatment of capital gains , they certainly want to be part of it 
In the House-passed tax bill , Mr. Thevenot got his wish ; real-estate assets are included in the capital-gains provision . 
In the House-passed tax bill , Mr. Thevenot got his wish ; real-estate assets are included in the capital-gains provision . 
Two of the major ways that tax-writers managed to attain these ends were to scrap the preferential treatment of capital gains and to curtail the use of paper losses , also known as passive losses , that made many tax shelters possible . 
They wanted reform 
One recent Saturday morning he stayed inside the Capitol monitoring tax-and-budget talks instead of flying to San Francisco for a fund-raiser 
`` I 'm too old to waste a weekend 
Load factor , or percentage of seats filled , climbed to 67.1 % from 66.6 % 
When the champ has lost his stuff , the great mystery novelist wrote , `` when he can no longer throw the high hard one , he throws his heart instead 
When the champ has lost his stuff , the great mystery novelist wrote , `` when he can no longer throw the high hard one , he throws his heart instead 
When the champ has lost his stuff , the great mystery novelist wrote , `` when he can no longer throw the high hard one 
When he died in 1959 , Chandler left behind four chapters of yet another Marlowe book , `` The Poodle Springs Story 
If it does not quite have Chandler 's special magic -- well , at the end , neither did Chandler 
As the book begins , a newly wed Marlowe roars into the desert resort of Poodle -LRB- a.k.a . Palm -RRB- Springs at the wheel of a Cadillac Fleetwood 
Philip and Linda move into her mansion and ca n't keep their hands off each other , even in front of the Hawaiian\/Japanese houseman . 
He wants to continue being a low-paid private eye 
The supporting lineup is solid , the patter is amusing 
The supporting lineup is solid , the patter is amusing and there 's even a cameo by Bernie Ohls , the `` good cop '' of previous Chandler books who still does n't hesitate to have Marlowe jailed 
All told , Mr. Parker does a better job of making a novel out of this abandoned fragment than anyone might have had a right to expect . 
At one point , the reader is two steps ahead of Marlowe in catching on to a double identity scam 
`` Japan has been a major importer of foreign information and news , '' says Mr. Shioya . 
Keizaikai is one of a small but growing band of Japanese companies taking their first steps into American publishing 
Japanese concerns have retained a number of publishing consultants and media brokers to study the U.S. market , including the New York-based investment banker Veronis , Suhler & Associates . 
While there are n't any major deals in the works currently on the scale of Sony Corp. 's recent $ 3.4 billion agreement to buy Columbia Pictures Entertainment Inc. , observers do n't rule out a transaction of that size 
`` It may not be weeks or months 
`` The Japanese take the long view . '' said Mr. Veronis . 
`` It may not be weeks or months , but they are also opportunistic and if they feel comfortable , they will move on a deal 
When Keizaikai launched Business Tokyo in 1987 , it appealed to a more multinational audience 
`` The Japanese are in the early stage right now , '' said Thomas Kenney , a onetime media adviser for First Boston Corp. who was recently appointed president of Reader 's Digest Association 's new Magazine Publishing Group . 
`` Before , they were interested in hard assets 
Bell Atlantic Corp. and Southern New England Telecommunications posted strong profit gains for the third quarter 
New telephone lines posted healthy growth . 
Revenue was reduced $ 33 million by three extraordinary items : a California Public Utilities Commission refund for an American Telephone & Telegraph Co. billing adjustment ; a provision for productivity sharing to be paid to customers in 1990 and a one-time accrual for a toll settlement with long-distance telephone companies . 
Pacific Telesis said new telephone lines increased 4.5 % for a total of about $ 13.5 million for the quarter ; toll calls increased 9.6 % to 807 million 
Amoco Corp. said third-quarter net income plunged 39 % to $ 336 million , or 65 cents a share 
A spokesman said Amoco completed an environmental analysis last quarter 
Generally in the quarter , overproduction of gasoline and higher crude oil prices pressured profitability . 
The industry 's chemical profits also declined 
Gasoline margins may rebound this quarter 
Amoco 's domestic oil and natural gas operations recorded a profit of $ 104 million in the quarter compared with a loss of $ 5 million , `` primarily on the strength of higher crude oil prices , '' said Chairman Richard M. Morrow . 
Amoco 's domestic oil and natural gas operations recorded a profit of $ 104 million in the quarter compared with a loss of $ 5 million , `` primarily on the strength of higher crude oil prices , '' said Chairman Richard M. Morrow . Amoco also sharply boosted natural-gas output , part of it from properties acquired from Tenneco Inc. last year . 
For the nine months , Amoco said that net income fell to $ 1.29 billion from $ 1.69 billion 
For the nine months , Amoco said that net income fell to $ 1.29 billion from $ 1.69 billion but if unusual items are excluded , operations produced essentially flat results 
Many retailers fear a price war will erupt 
Many retailers fear a price war will erupt if cash-strapped companies such as Campeau Corp. slash tags to spur sales . 
Even if there is n't any widespread discounting , the outlook for industry profits is n't good 
This year , many stores are entering the Christmas season in turmoil : Bonwit Teller and B. Altman parent L.J. Hooker Corp. is operating under Chapter 11 of the federal Bankruptcy Code ; B.A.T Industries PLC 's healthy Saks Fifth Avenue and Marshall Field 's chains are on the auction block 
Economists expect general merchandise sales in the fourth quarter to rise 4.5 % to 6 % from year-ago figures . 
Troubled chains could see their sales drop as much as 8 % 
Troubled chains could see their sales drop as much as 8 % , he believes , as managers distracted by fears about the future allow their stores to get sloppy . 
`` Traditionally , consumers were concerned about ordering after the first of December 
He 's not predicting a blockbuster 
He 's not predicting a blockbuster , but he is `` more optimistic than three months ago 
K mart Corp. Chairman Joseph E. Antonini summed up his outlook for the Christmas season as `` not troublesome . '' 
`` It is n't a real boom holiday season in our eyes 
`` It is n't a real boom holiday season in our eyes , '' says Woolworth Corp. Chairman Harold E. Sells , `` but it is n't going to be a bust either . '' 
Of the 450 survey respondents , 35 % said they expect to spend less buying Christmas gifts this year than last year 
Of the 450 survey respondents , 35 % said they expect to spend less buying Christmas gifts this year than last year , while 28 % said they expect to spend more 
Retailers could get a boost this year from the calendar . Christmas falls on a Monday , creating a big last-minute weekend opportunity for stores . 
`` What you 'll hear as we get into December is that sales are sluggish 
Unlike other writers who either battled the fascists during the Civil War , or left Spain 
Unlike other writers who either battled the fascists during the Civil War , or left Spain when Franco triumphed , Mr. Cela fought briefly on the general 's side , no doubt earning with his war wound some forbearance 
Unlike other writers who either battled the fascists during the Civil War , or left Spain when Franco triumphed , Mr. Cela fought briefly on the general 's side , no doubt earning with his war wound some forbearance when he went on to depict a country with a high population of vagabonds , murderers and rural idiots trudging aimlessly through a dried-out land . 
Still , it was in Argentine editions that his countrymen first read his story of Pascal Duarte , a field worker who stabbed his mother to death and has no regrets 
It is evident that their conversation runs more or less on the following lines : `` I 've submitted the manuscript of my novel under the title ` Teresa de Cepeda 
Will you pour me a drop of water 
I 've revised it several times 
I do n't know the quality of the works my colleagues have sent in 
It does not matter 
When President Bush arrives here next week for a hemispheric summit organized to commemorate a century of Costa Rican democracy , will he be able to deliver a credible message in the wake of the Panamanian fiasco 
Undoubtedly Mr. Bush will be praised by some Latin leaders prone to pay lip service to nonintervention 
Faced with this embarrassment , U.S. diplomats expressed confidence that the influential Rio Group of South American nations , which gathered last week in Peru , would take a stronger posture toward the Panamanian dictator . 
The host , Costa Rican President Oscar Arias , did not invite Chile , Cuba , Panama or Haiti to the summit , which was to be restricted to democracies . 
Formally upgrading the Sandinistas to a democratic status was an initiative harshly criticized in the Costa Rican press . 
According to officials in Washington , the State Department hoped that by pleasing President Arias , it would gain his support to postpone any decision on the Contras until after Mr. Ortega 's promises of democratic elections were tested next February . 
However , relying on an ardent critic of the Reagan administration and the Contra movement for help in delaying the disarming of the Contras was risky business . 
In Honduras , where the Contras are a hot political issue , he promised to help unblock some $ 70 million in assistance withheld due to the failure of local agencies to comply with conditions agreed upon with Washington . 
Prior to this episode , Sen. Christopher Dodd -LRB- D. , Conn. -RRB- , sensing an open field , undertook a personal diplomatic mission through Central America to promote an early disbanding of the rebels . 
There , Mr. Shevardnadze felt legitimized to unveil his own peace plan : The U.S.S.R. would prolong a suspension of arms shipments to Nicaragua after the February election 
There , Mr. Shevardnadze felt legitimized to unveil his own peace plan : The U.S.S.R. would prolong a suspension of arms shipments to Nicaragua after the February election if the U.S. did likewise with its allies in Central America . 
Since Mr. Shevardnadze 's proposals followed discussions with Mr. Baker , speculations arose that the Bush administration was seeking an accommodation with the Soviets in Central America 
This scheme would fit the Arias Plan , which declared a false symmetry between Soviet military aid to the Sandinista dictatorship 
This scheme would fit the Arias Plan , which declared a false symmetry between Soviet military aid to the Sandinista dictatorship and that provided by Washington to freely elected governments . 
This scheme would fit the Arias Plan , which declared a false symmetry between Soviet military aid to the Sandinista dictatorship and that provided by Washington to freely elected governments . 
Furthermore , it is also likely to encourage those on Capitol Hill asking for cuts in the assistance to El Salvador 
A few months ago , the Bush administration decided to stop this cooperation , leaving Radio Costa Rica operating on a shoestring . 
Questioned in Washington about what would happen 
A poll conducted in July by a Gallup affiliate showed that 64 % of Costa Ricans believe that if their country is militarily attacked by either Nicaragua or Panama , the U.S. will come to its defense 
A poll conducted in July by a Gallup affiliate showed that 64 % of Costa Ricans believe that if their country is militarily attacked by either Nicaragua or Panama , the U.S. will come to its defense . 
Holiday Corp. said net income jumped 89 % , partly on the strength of record operating income in its gaming division . 
That debt is part of the $ 2.1 billion of Holiday debt that Bass PLC of Britain said it would retire or assume 
The debt issues involved and the proposed consent fees and cash tender offer prices -LRB- expressed per $ 1,000 of principal amount -RRB- are as follows : 10 1\/2 % senior notes due 1994 at 101 % ; 11 % subordinated debt due 1999 at 102 % ; 9 3\/8 % notes due 1993 at 100 % ; and 8 3\/8 % notes due 1996 at 95.25 % . 
Although such a venture would n't match the `` fourth network '' created by News Corp. 's Fox Broadcasting Co. , MCA and Paramount may have similar ambitions 
Fox , which also owns six TV stations , provides programs three nights a week to those and other affiliates 
MCA owns WWOR in New York 
One broadcasting executive familiar with the project said the co-venture would target stations affiliated with Fox 
Currently , Fox supplies programs on Saturdays , Sundays and Mondays 
Fox said it plans to offer its stations movies , theatrical and made-for-TV ventures , probably on Wednesdays , sometime next year . 
Paramount and MCA , according to the broadcasting executive , plan to offer theatrical movies produced separately by Paramount and MCA for Wednesdays and perhaps a block of original shows Fridays . 
BanPonce caters to a more affluent customer 
BanPonce caters to a more affluent customer , while Banco Popular has always had a large presence among middle-income and lower-income markets . 
Hit by higher costs and lower sales , Caterpillar Inc. said third-quarter earnings tumbled 43 % 
In announcing a 1989 capital spending plan of $ 950 million early this year , Caterpillar said full-year earnings would be flat compared with last year 's $ 616 million , or $ 6.07 a share . 
But yesterday , the company said this year 's profit will be lower . 
B.A.T said it may make more equity purchases until the close of business today , depending on market conditions 
B.A.T Industries PLC won overwhelming shareholder approval for a defensive restructuring to fend off a # 13.35 billion -LRB- $ 21.23 billion -RRB- takeover bid from Sir James Goldsmith . 
The Anglo-French financier has indicated he intends to bid again for B.A.T 
Hasbro said it had net income of $ 31.3 million , or 53 cents a share , up from $ 18.1 million , or 31 cents a share , a year earlier , when it took a pretax charge of $ 10 million 
Alan G. Hassenfeld , chairman and chief executive , added that Hasbro 's new line of battery-powered racing cars , called Record Breakers , and its acquisition of Cabbage Patch Kids , Scrabble and other lines from Coleco Industries Inc. puts the company `` in a good position 
Reebok International Ltd. posted a 35 % increase in third-quarter net income despite a slight decline in sales . 
CML , Acton , Mass. , had agreed to sell the unit to Reebok for about $ 42 million . 
Pitney Bowes Inc. directors authorized the company to seek buyers for its Wheeler Group Inc. subsidiary , a direct mail marketer of office supplies . 
The failure in Oakland of the freeway segment known as the Cypress structure was the deadliest aspect of the quake 
Red tractors gingerly picked at the rubble 
In Sacramento , a transportation department spokesman said he could n't immediately confirm or deny existence of the test work . 
However , he asserted that the department had n't mastered the technology needed to retrofit the entire Cypress structure . 
Moreover , other officials noted , snafus in transportation funding that the state has experienced over the years may have restricted the availability of funds for such a retrofitting 
After completing installation of the jackets on `` one frame '' of the freeway last year , the state DOT had sent the project over to its Sacramento engineers to draw up a final design 
The procedure involves encasing the concrete columns with steel 
Knowledgeable employees said the project had been stymied somewhat by `` the difficulty of designing '' the jackets . 
The northern piers of the span lie in estuarian deposits that were of a type to have liquefied easily during the 1906 quake . The Cypress structure opened in June 1957 , and as such , like many buildings in the San Francisco Bay area , does not meet current building codes requiring considerably more steel support . 
They said previous earthquakes suggested that multiple-column viaducts would stand up well 
`` Unfortunately , there is only one laboratory for developing techniques to withstand earthquakes 
The meeting had been scheduled for Nov. 10 
As part of a restructuring announced earlier this year , the company proposed in August to exchange 168 newly issued common shares for each $ 1,000 face value of debt . 
If all the debt was converted , about 13 million new shares would be issued 
As part of a restructuring announced earlier this year , the company proposed in August to exchange 168 newly issued common shares for each $ 1,000 face value of debt . 
Bonn and Washington have taken a leading role in aid for the reformist countries , pledging billions of dollars in fresh credit and forgiving old debt 
Both hope to encourage pressure for change in East bloc countries still ruled by Stalinist holdouts by arranging liberal financial aid and trade benefits for Poland , Hungary and , to a lesser extent , the Soviet Union . 
`` The change taking place in the Soviet Union , Poland and Hungary has aroused new hope in both German states that reforms will be undertaken in -LCB- East Germany -RCB- 
`` We want the bold programs of market development and political freedom in Hungary and in Poland to succeed . We are prepared to support those changes , '' said Mr. Mosbacher . 
Mr. Genscher and U.S. Secretary of Commerce Robert A. Mosbacher , in separate speeches at the conference , appealed for more Western contributions to economic reforms and business development in Hungary and Poland . 
The package was brought to the House 
Meanwhile , the U.S. House of Representatives yesterday approved an $ 837.5 million aid package for Poland and Hungary that more than doubles the amount President Bush had requested . 
In addition , a group of 24 industrialized countries , including the U.S. and Japan and coordinated by the European Community Commission , has promised Poland and Hungary trade advice and a line of credit equivalent to $ 1.11 billion through the European Investment Bank 
When Chancellor Helmut Kohl travels to Poland Nov. 9 , he is expected to take with him a promise of three billion West German marks -LRB- $ 1.6 billion -RRB- in new credit guarantees for industrial projects 
Last week , Bonn agreed to reschedule 2.5 billion marks in Polish debt that came due last year . 
When Chancellor Helmut Kohl travels to Poland Nov. 9 , he is expected to take with him a promise of three billion West German marks -LRB- $ 1.6 billion -RRB- in new credit guarantees for industrial projects . 
West Germany also has increased its credit guarantees to Hungary by 500 million marks to 1.5 billion marks 
Deutsche Bank AG , which last year arranged a three billion mark credit for the Soviet Union , is now moving to become the first West German bank to set up independent business offices in Hungary and Poland 
A maxim of Frankfurt banking holds that wherever Deutsche Bank goes , other West German banks follow . 
`` Mattel 's world-wide volume has grown 25 % in a climate of relatively flat industry sales , '' said John W. Amerman , chairman . 
Mattel attributed the jump in quarter net to strong world-wide sales of its Barbie doll , Hot Wheels cars , Disney toys and other well-known toy lines . 
The charge did n't affect net for the quarter 
Now that the Supreme Court opened the door on the subject of abortion , politicians are squinting under the glare of democratic choice 
Republicans are squinting most painfully , at least at first , which is only fair 
They could attract one-issue voters by adopting the right-to-life movement 's strongest position 
Last Friday , after Congress passed it anyway , he hinted he was looking for compromise 
Was the man who once was pro-choice 
Much of Washington thought it detected George Bush in a characteristic waffle on abortion the past week . 
When Democrats refused to budge , pro-life Republicans met at the White House with Chief of Staff John Sununu on Monday , and Mr. Bush quickly signaled a veto 
When Democrats refused to budge , pro-life Republicans met at the White House with Chief of Staff John Sununu on Monday 
At the 1988 GOP convention , abortion was barely discussed at all 
Ms. Johnson made a passionate statement to the platform committee 
Eddie Mahe , a Republican consultant , says the two GOP candidates could have avoided trouble 
Eddie Mahe , a Republican consultant , says the two GOP candidates could have avoided trouble if they had framed the issue first . 
Darla St. Martin , of the National Right to Life Committee , says exit polls from the 1988 election had single-issue , pro-life voters giving Mr. Bush about five more percentage points of support than pro-choice voters gave Michael Dukakis . 
Polls are no substitute for principle 
Oklahoma official Robert Fulton lost a chance for a senior job in the Department of Health and Human Services 
Caldwell Butler , a conservative former congressman , was barred from a Legal Services post 
After Mr. Sullivan waffled on abortion last year , the White House appeased right-to-lifers by surrounding him with pro-life deputies 
Their views on health care and welfare did n't much matter 
Though Democrats can gloat at all this for now , they may want to contain their glee 
Roe v. Wade pre-empted political debate 
It added that higher revenue , strong crude oil prices and higher natural gas prices offset declines in production of oil , gas and plant liquids . 
A lawyer for Lawyers Title said that , because the named companies no longer use the type of cooperative rating bureaus attacked by the FTC , the commission 's order wo n't have much practical impact 
FADA , which holds problem assets of thrifts that were closed 
`` You need to buy the entire lot 
Bonds due 1991-1996 carry 6.70 % coupons 
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. -- $ 500 million of Remic mortgage securities being offered in 12 classes by Salomon Brothers Inc . 
The offerings bring Freddie Mac 's 1989 Remic issuance to $ 32.6 billion and its total volume to $ 46.5 billion 
Mitsubishi Trust & Banking Corp . -LRB- Japan -RRB- -- 200 million Swiss francs of privately placed convertible notes due March 31 , 1994 , with a fixed 0.75 % coupon at par , via Union Bank of Switzerland . 
Each 1,000 mark and 10,000 mark bond is convertible from Nov. 27 , 1989 , to March 21 , 1995 , at a price to be determined 
First they get us to buy computers 
First they get us to buy computers so we can get more information . 
Geoffrey Goodfellow , who dropped out of high school back in the 1970s to manage a computer network at a California research firm , says : `` Old network hands have started to turn off the network 
NewsEdge is pricey : $ 7,500 a year for a limited version , $ 40,000 a year 
NewsEdge is pricey : $ 7,500 a year for a limited version , $ 40,000 a year if the cost of all the news wires is included . 
NewsEdge is pricey : $ 7,500 a year for a limited version , $ 40,000 a year if the cost of all the news wires is included . And it works best in high-powered personal computers . 
Some organizations have devised their own systems to sort through news wire items 
`` They want the full press releases on printer announcements by their competition , '' Mr. Amram says . 
If a customer asks for stories about `` IBM , '' the computer will also supply stories that mention `` I.B.M. , International Business Machines , or Big Blue 
Individual Inc. 's technology goes beyond word searches by using a computerized thesaurus . 
Individual Inc. 's technology goes beyond word searches by using a computerized thesaurus . 
It compares the position of key words in the story ; words in the headline or first paragraph get a higher value . 
`` The computers find all the key words they can 
Pinpoint Information Corp. , Chantilly , Va. , a producer of $ 1,800-a-year personalized newsletters about the computer industry that started full operation last month , relies on 12 human readers to code news releases by topic in order to select items for each subscriber . 
Once all the articles are coded and put in a data base , Pinpoint 's computers pick the most relevant for each subscriber and lay them out in a three-to-five-page newsletter format 
`` All these interconnected computers make it difficult to sort out what 's junk 
The MIT project devised ways for E-mail to be automatically categorized as top priority 
Mr. Digate says that Beyond will refine the product 
Mr. Digate says that Beyond will refine the product `` so the message will be smart enough to know to come back and bother you again next week . '' 
And if a user is busy , `` he can set it for crisis mode 
The MIT project devised ways for E-mail to be automatically categorized as top priority if it comes from certain designated senders or requires action in the next couple of days . 
Notes , which is designed for advanced computers that display graphics , allows mail senders to put different logos on their mail . 
A New York Stock Exchange arbitration panel ordered Dean Witter to pay $ 404,294 in back bonuses to William Kelly , the company 's former head of high-yield , high-risk junk-bond trading and sales . 
American Brands Inc. said third-quarter net income rose 13 % , reflecting strong gains in its tobacco and distilled spirits businesses . 
WASHINGTON LIES LOW 
Lawmakers , haunted by charges that some of their comments contributed to the 1987 crash , generally shy away from calls for sweeping new legislation . 
But a House Energy and Commerce subcommittee will quiz SEC Chairman Breeden Wednesday 
The market 's wild week may speed along the market-reform legislation that has been pending for months in the aftermath of the 1987 crash . 
Despite seeing his plan for Israeli-Palestinian elections wither , the cautious secretary of state is so far unwilling to cut U.S. economic or military aid to force Israeli cooperation . 
Despite seeing his plan for Israeli-Palestinian elections wither , the cautious secretary of state is so far unwilling to cut U.S. economic or military aid to force Israeli cooperation . 
Darman now blames the clash on miscommunication 
Darman now blames the clash on miscommunication , but House GOP leader Michel , who carried the offer to him , observes , `` I was speaking English at the time , and quite loud 
Republicans as well as Democrats were angered by the budget director 's rejection of Speaker Foley 's effort to expedite a deficitcutting measure by stripping it of the capital-gains tax cut as well as pet Democratic projects . 
`` If I can show signs of maturity , almost anybody can 
Before he was confirmed , Sullivan said he had `` reservations about any blanket prohibitions on medical research 
Before he was confirmed , Sullivan said he had `` reservations about any blanket prohibitions on medical research . '' 
Defense experts say joint projects are increasingly squeezed by budget pressures and the desire to save domestic jobs 
Defense experts say joint projects are increasingly squeezed by budget pressures and the desire to save domestic jobs ; some also fear rising protectionism 
Though she opposes abortion in almost all cases , she airs a TV commercial using pro-choice buzzwords 
One slot is expected to go to EEOC Chairman Clarence Thomas , a black conservative ; after mulling a fight , liberals now probably wo n't put up a major struggle against him 
Other conservatives thought to be on the administration 's short list include Washington lawyer Michael Uhlmann , who was passed over for the No. 2 job at the Justice Department , and Marshall Breger , chairman of a U.S. agency on administration . 
A GOP Senate fund-raising letter from Sen. Burns of Montana is made to appear personally written 
A GOP Senate fund-raising letter from Sen. Burns of Montana is made to appear personally written , and its opening line is , `` Please excuse my handwriting . '' 
Now that a key member of the San Diego Yacht Club team is splitting off to form his own team , even more competition lies ahead 
Peter Isler , the winning navigator in the past two America 's Cup challenges , has split from the team led by Dennis Conner , skipper of the victorious Stars & Stripes , to form his own team for the next contest in 1992 . 
Now , the first order of business is raising enough money to keep his team afloat -- a new yacht will cost about $ 3 million alone 
Pending an appeal by the New Zealand team , led by Michael Fay , the finals for the next Cup challenge are scheduled to be held in mid-1992 in San Diego . 
`` If you do n't know what the rules of the game are , it 's hard to start your fund-raising or design 
The Conner team wo n't be able to negotiate with corporate sponsors 
The Conner team wo n't be able to negotiate with corporate sponsors until the suit is resolved 
The Conner team wo n't be able to negotiate with corporate sponsors until the suit is resolved and the race site is determined 
The Conner team wo n't be able to negotiate with corporate sponsors until the suit is resolved and the race site is determined , Mr. Smith said , and the syndicate 's budget could easily reach $ 30 million . 
Of course I 'd rather have a computer software firm in my backyard than a hazardous waste incinerator . 
Of course I 'd rather have a computer software firm in my backyard than a hazardous waste incinerator . 
But I 'd also rather live next door to an incinerator than to some of the hog farms I 've seen -LRB- and smelt -RRB- in these parts . 
The loss of 40 jobs by a depressed county in rural Missouri is hardly of national importance except for this : If the most environmentally safe way of dealing with a national problem can not be built in Atchinson County , what hope have we for dealing with the wastes our economy produces 
We know they are dangerous 
We know they are dangerous , but if handled with care , their benefits far outweigh any risk to the environment 
Just because Stamford , Conn. , High School did nothing when its valuable 1930s mural was thrown in the trash does n't mean the city no longer owns the work of art 
Just because Stamford , Conn. , High School did nothing 
After the discarded mural was found outside the school by a concerned Stamford graduate , it eventually was turned over to Hiram Hoelzer , a professional art restorer 
In 1986 , Stamford officials thanked Mr. Hoelzer for taking care of the mural -- and demanded he return it as soon as possible . 
Mr. Hoelzer , however , sued Stamford , claiming that the city had abandoned the artwork 
Mr. Hoelzer , however , sued Stamford , claiming that the city had abandoned the artwork and that it had waited too long to reclaim it . 
But Judge Louis L. Stanton of federal court in Manhattan ruled that the city could n't be faulted for waiting too long 
But Judge Louis L. Stanton of federal court in Manhattan ruled that the city could n't be faulted for waiting too long because it did n't realize until 1986 that its ownership of the painting was in dispute . 
The judge also ruled that the painting was n't abandoned 
The prices of corn futures contracts jumped amid rumors that the Soviet Union is keeping up its dizzying October buying binge of U.S. corn . 
On top of all this , corn and soybean prices rose on reports that the Midwest harvest was disrupted by a freakishly early snow storm that dumped several inches in parts of Indiana and Ohio . 
One price-depressing development was the lower-than-expected increase of only 0.2 % in the consumer price index for September , an analyst said . 
Other news that weighed on the market : Initial unemployment claims rose by 62,000 last week ; American Telephone & Telegraph Co. will reduce its managerial staff by 15,000 through attrition ; the oil market turned weaker ; there was n't any investor demand for bullion 
Other news that weighed on the market : Initial unemployment claims rose by 62,000 last week ; American Telephone & Telegraph Co. will reduce its managerial staff by 15,000 through attrition ; the oil market turned weaker ; there was n't any investor demand for bullion ; and the dollar strengthened during the day , putting pressure on gold . 
Both are in great need of foreign exchange 
Both are in great need of foreign exchange 
That contract fell a total of 5.75 cents during the first three days of this week , mostly in reaction to last Friday 's stock market plunge , which prompted concern that it might signal a similar sharp slowing of the U.S. economy 
That contract fell a total of 5.75 cents during the first three days of this week , mostly in reaction to last Friday 's stock market plunge , which prompted concern that it might signal a similar sharp slowing of the U.S. economy and thus reduced demand for copper , a leading industrial metal . 
The increasing likelihood that Cananea and Highland Valley will soon return to production may have cut some of that purchasing 
The increasing likelihood that Cananea and Highland Valley will soon return to production may have cut some of that purchasing , but even if any of these mines begin operating soon , their output wo n't be significant until at least the end of the year 
The increasing likelihood that Cananea and Highland Valley will soon return to production may have cut some of that purchasing , but even if any of these mines begin operating soon , their output wo n't be significant until at least the end of the year , analysts note . 
So , one analyst said , even though the long-term production problems may be easing , there will still be a significant need for copper over the next three months 
West Texas Intermediate for November delivery fell 14 cents a barrel to $ 20.42 . 
But so-called outer month contracts finished higher . 
Most energy futures opened lower , following Wednesday 's market downturn . 
In the first 25 minutes after his office 's telephone service was restored yesterday morning , 17 potential clients had called seeking the services of the self-proclaimed King of Torts 
Suits are likely to be filed against engineering firms , contractors and developers , as well as against local-government agencies . 
But lawyers looking to cash in on the quake may have a tough time 
For now , says Laurence Drivon , president-elect of the 6,000-member California Trial Lawyers Association , `` the last thing we really need to worry about is whether anybody is going to get sued 
We still have people wandering around in a daze in San Francisco worrying about whether it 's going to rain tonight . '' 
In San Francisco , they argue , an earthquake was a near certainty . 
Therefore , engineering firms , construction contractors and developers can be sued for not keeping structures up to standard 
Therefore , engineering firms , construction contractors and developers can be sued for not keeping structures up to standard , and government agencies can be held accountable for failing to properly protect citizens from such a foreseeable disaster 
From what he saw on television , Mr. Chesley points out that Interstate 880 , which collapsed and killed more than 200 commuters , suffered serious damage 
`` We wo n't know 
`` We wo n't know until the smoke clears 
Defense lawyers , perhaps understandably , say that plaintiffs ' lawyers taking such an approach will have little success in pursuing their claims 
Plaintiffs , he says , will argue that damaged structures were n't built to proper design standards . 
But if defendants can prove that they met San Francisco 's stringent building codes , `` that 's probably going to protect them 
The state is protected 
The state is protected when plans and designs for public structures were approved ahead of time 
The state is protected 
He believes those defenses might well apply to the Bay Bridge collapse . 
Nevertheless , he adds , `` I would n't get totally shocked 
If there 's going to be a race to the courthouse , it has n't started yet 
Mr. Covert had to search through law books scattered on the floor of his office yesterday 
He said he set up shop on the sidewalk in front of his town-house office and helped victims apply for federal aid -- free of charge . 
Although accountants are n't noted as `` being deeply emotional , they really hold it all in 
Partners at other accounting firms say that the Deloitte firm in the U.K. is filing the suit to get even with the merged Deloitte-Touche firm for keeping major auditing work in England . 
Although Coopers has n't been courted by other major accounting firms for a merger , it is benefiting greatly from fallout from the Deloitte-Touche merger 
In New York , Harris Amhowitz , general counsel of Coopers , said Coopers `` was aware of the litigation 
In New York , Harris Amhowitz , general counsel of Coopers , said Coopers `` was aware of the litigation , '' but he declined further comment . 
He also declined to comment on the name that Coopers would use in England 
The drug czar claimed that enforcement efforts are working here , `` albeit at a slower and more halting pace than we would like . '' 
Mr. Bennett declined to name the area officials who he believes have impeded plans for building more federal prisons to ease Washington 's problem . 
But other Bush administration officials have criticized Maryland Gov. William Schaefer for blocking the use of possible sites in that state . 
Of his successes in Washington , Mr. Bennett stressed that existing federal prisons have taken custody of 375 local inmates . 
The Defense Department has lent the Washington U.S. attorney 10 prosecutors 
Some , particularly in West Coast earthquake zones , are dusting off their evacuation plans , checking food stocks and reminding employees of what to do 
Some businesses -- like Disneyland -- claim that even if they became isolated in a crisis , they would be able to feed and care for their people for as long as five days 
`` If you do n't save your critical people , you wo n't be able to bring up your vital business functions 
Although ARCO 's head office , more than 300 miles from the epicenter , was n't affected by this week 's tremors , Ms. Masaki-Schatz used the occasion to distribute a three-page memo of `` Earthquake Tips '' to 1,200 ARCO employees 
`` You need to capitalize on these moments 
The ARCO memo urges employees to keep certain supplies at work , such as solid shoes and `` heavy gloves to clear debris . '' 
Among the suggestions : Pantyhose and men 's ties could be used for slings 
ARCO maintains an office in Dallas that would take over 
At Hewlett-Packard Co. , the earthquake came 
`` We were talking about scheduling a practice drill for November , '' says Joan Tharp , a spokeswoman . 
Sales and service employees were asked to report to work to help Bay area clients who called with computer problems . 
Although officials of the savings and loan , a unit of Great Western Financial Corp. , used some of their new plans and equipment during this week 's quake , they still lost touch for more than 24 hours with 15 branches in the affected areas 
Although officials of the savings and loan , a unit of Great Western Financial Corp. , used some of their new plans and equipment during this week 's quake 
Although officials of the savings and loan , a unit of Great Western Financial Corp. , used some of their new plans and equipment during this week 's quake , they still lost touch for more than 24 hours with 15 branches in the affected areas , not knowing if employees were injured 
As it turned out , bank employees were n't hurt 
As it turned out , bank employees were n't hurt and the vaults withstood the jolts . 
Occidental Petroleum Corp. holds regular evacuation drills and stocks food , oxygen and non-prescription drugs at checkpoints in its 16-story headquarters . 
Walt Disney Co. 's Disneyland in Anaheim , Calif. , stocks rescue equipment , medical supplies , and enough food and water to feed at least 10,000 visitors for as long as five days in the event that a calamity isolates the theme park . 
Hurricane Hugo , an Atlantic storm , did n't affect Vista . 
Because hurricanes can change course rapidly , the company sends employees home and shuts down operations in stages 
`` Empty tank cars will float away on you 
But two other major storms have threatened operations so far this year , most recently Hurricane Jerry this week . 
`` A situation like San Francisco is so frightening 
In a ruling by the Fifth U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in New Orleans , Mr. Gaubert received the go-ahead to pursue a claim against the Federal Home Loan Bank Board and the Federal Home Loan Bank of Dallas for losses he suffered 
While under the control of federal regulators , Independent American 's net worth dropped from $ 75 million to a negative $ 400 million 
MAITRE'D CLAIMS in suit that restaurant fired her 
The suit alleges that Ms. Levine was fired 
Ms. Levine told her employer that she was pregnant in February ; a month later , the suit says , the restaurant manager told Ms. Levine that she would be demoted to his assistant 
Kary Moss , an attorney with the ACLU 's Women 's Rights Project , said , `` They wanted a svelte-looking woman 
They told her , ` We do n't hire fat people 
They told her , ` We do n't hire fat people and we do n't hire cripples . 
Ms. Moss said Ms. Levine secretly taped many conversations with her bosses at the Odeon in which they told her she was being fired as maitre 'd 
He said Ms. Levine had never been fired 
Some of the lawyers say they would continue to represent their clients 
Assistant U.S. Attorney Terry Hart of Dallas says the government will oppose any efforts to bring in a new defense team 
A former prosecutor and member of the Senate Judiciary Committee , Sen. Specter is expected to exercise influence 
The publisher was able to register soaring quarter net income because of a onetime gain on the sale of its cable-TV system . 
`` Next year , earnings will hold steady 
It will be hard to do handstands 
`` With the Edison plant coming on line next summer , the Times is facing some tough earnings comparison in the future , '' said Peter Appert , an analyst with C.J. Lawrence , Morgan Grenfell . 
The sale of the company 's cable franchise brought an after-tax gain of $ 193.3 million , part of which will be used to reduce debt . 
That 's a good sign 
Investors celebrated the second anniversary of Black Monday with a buying spree in both stocks and bonds . 
Since the 1987 crash , the industrials have soared more than 54 % 
The stock-market rally was led by blue-chip issues , but , unlike Monday 's rebound , was broadly based . 
That news , plus recent signs of economic sluggishness , greatly increases pressure on the Federal Reserve to ease credit further 
`` I see a lot of evidence indicating a slower economy 
The government said consumer prices rose only 0.2 % last month . 
Despite the inflation news , several Fed officials still fear consumer-price pressures will intensify 
Despite the inflation news , several Fed officials still fear consumer-price pressures will intensify because they insist the economy is stronger than generally believed . 
If so , that will cinch the case for another shot of credit-easing within a month or so 
If so , that will cinch the case for another shot of credit-easing within a month or so . 
`` We 're not out of the woods yet by any means , '' said George R. Mateyo , president and chief executive of Carnegie Capital Management Co. , Cleveland . 
But the economy `` is slowing enough to give the Federal Reserve leeway to reduce interest rates . '' 
But many individual investors are leery about stocks because of fresh signs of fragility in the huge junk-bond market . 
In New York late yesterday , it was at 141.70 yen , up from 141.45 yen late Wednesday . 
1 -RRB- Voters can `` buy '' one of two brands when they select their political agents -- a Republican brand that believes in the minimalist state and in the virtues of private markets over the vices of public action , and a Democratic brand that believes in big government and in public intervention to remedy the excesses attendant to the pursuit of private interest 
2 -RRB- Congressional representatives have two basic responsibilities 
If they put a Republican into office , not only will they acquire less in terms of local benefits 
Each legislator , after all , is only one out of 535 
Although a GOP president may limit local benefits to the voter 's particular district\/state , such a president is also likely to be more effective at preventing other districts\/states and their legislators from bringing home the local benefits 
Although a GOP president may limit local benefits to the voter 's particular district\/state 
Although a GOP president may limit local benefits to the voter 's particular district\/state , such a president is also likely to be more effective at preventing other districts\/states and their legislators from bringing home the local benefits . 
First , why ticket splitting has increased and taken the peculiar pattern that it has over the past half century : Prior to the election of Franklin Roosevelt as president and the advent of the New Deal , government occupied a much smaller role in society 
Third , the theory suggests why legislators who pay too much attention to national policy making relative to local benefit-seeking have lower security in office . 
Because these freshmen placed far more emphasis on their partisan role -- spreading the Reagan revolution -- in national policy making , they were more vulnerable to defeat 
First , why ticket splitting has increased and taken the peculiar pattern that it has over the past half century : Prior to the election of Franklin Roosevelt as president and the advent of the New Deal , government occupied a much smaller role in society and the prisoner 's dilemma problem confronting voters in races for Congress was considerably less severe . Second , it explains why voters hold Congress in disdain but generally love their own congressional representatives : Any individual legislator 's constituents appreciate the specific benefits that the legislator wins for them but not the overall cost associated with every other legislator doing likewise for his own constituency . Third , the theory suggests why legislators who pay too much attention to national policy making relative to local benefit-seeking have lower security in office . Fourth , the theory indicates why the Republican Party may have a difficult time attracting viable candidates for congressional office . Fifth , the theory may provide at least a partial reason for why ticket splitting has been particularly pronounced in the South . 
Since local benefit-seeking matters more 
Since local benefit-seeking matters more and national policy making matters less in the lower chamber of Congress , this is precisely the pattern one would expect 
Second , if the key assumption is valid , Democrats should have lower attendance rates on roll-call votes than Republicans do to the extent that such votes reflect national policy making and that participating in such votes takes away from the time a legislator could otherwise devote to local benefit-seeking 
Second , if the key assumption is valid , Democrats should have lower attendance rates on roll-call votes than Republicans do to the extent that such votes reflect national policy making 
Second , if the key assumption is valid , Democrats should have lower attendance rates on roll-call votes than Republicans do to the extent that such votes reflect national policy making and that participating in such votes takes away from the time a legislator could otherwise devote to local benefit-seeking . 
First , economists James Bennett and Thomas DiLorenzo find that GOP senators turn back roughly 10 % more of their allocated personal staff budgets than Democrats do . To the extent that the primary duty of personal staff involves local benefit-seeking , this indicates that political philosophy leads congressional Republicans to pay less attention to narrow constituent concerns . Second , if the key assumption is valid , Democrats should have lower attendance rates on roll-call votes than Republicans do to the extent that such votes reflect national policy making and that participating in such votes takes away from the time a legislator could otherwise devote to local benefit-seeking . This is indeed what the data indicate , particularly in the case of the House . 
Finally , as shown in the table , Democrats allocate a higher proportion of their personal staffs to district offices -- where local benefit-seeking duties matter more 
Finally , as shown in the table , Democrats allocate a higher proportion of their personal staffs to district offices -- where local benefit-seeking duties matter more and national policy making activities matter less relative to Washington offices . 
Put more simply , GOP candidates for president are looked on more kindly by voters than Republican candidates for the Senate 
Put more simply , GOP candidates for president are looked on more kindly by voters than Republican candidates for the Senate when the prisoner 's dilemma is more severe . 
State government is more typically split along Republican-governor\/Democratic-legislature lines than the reverse . 
First , economists James Bennett and Thomas DiLorenzo find that GOP senators turn back roughly 10 % more of their allocated personal staff budgets than Democrats do . Second , if the key assumption is valid , Democrats should have lower attendance rates on roll-call votes than Republicans do to the extent that such votes reflect national policy making and that participating in such votes takes away from the time a legislator could otherwise devote to local benefit-seeking . Finally , as shown in the table , Democrats allocate a higher proportion of their personal staffs to district offices -- where local benefit-seeking duties matter more and national policy making activities matter less relative to Washington offices . An additional piece of evidence from the Senate : Holding other factors constant , such as incumbency advantages and regional factors , the difference between popular votes for Republican presidential and senatorial candidates in states conducting a Senate election turns out to be a positive function of how onerous the federal government 's tax burden is per state -LRB- a progressive tax rate hits higher-income states harder -RRB- . Moreover , ticket splitting appears to take the same peculiar pattern at the state government level as it does at the federal level . 
The measure provides no money for the promised payments until then 
The measure provides no money for the promised payments until then , but beginning in fiscal 1991 , the government would be committed to meeting annual payments of as much as $ 500 million 
The action came 
Reversing an eight-year federal policy , the measure supports Medicaid abortions in cases of rape and incest 
Mr. Bush 's veto power puts him a commanding position in the narrowly divided House 
An estimated $ 1.32 billion is provided for next year 's census 
Elsewhere in the Commerce Department , nearly $ 191.2 million is preserved for assistance programs under the Economic Development Administration . 
And in a footnote to the fall of House Speaker James Wright this year , the conference voted to rescind $ 11.8 million in unspent EDA funds for a Fort Worth , Texas , stockyards project that figured in ethics charges against the former Democratic leader . 
Fiscal pressures also forced the adoption of new fees charged by federal agencies 
The bill does n't include an estimated $ 1.9 billion in supplemental anti-drug funds for Justice Department and law-enforcement accounts that are still in conference with the House . 
But yesterday 's agreement would make it easier for state governments to handle the promised aid by deferring for one year a scheduled 50 % increase in the required state matching funds for law-enforcement grants . 
The odd mix of departments in the bill makes it one of the more eclectic of the annual appropriations measures 
An estimated $ 321 million is provided to maintain the program 
An estimated $ 321 million is provided to maintain the program 
An estimated $ 321 million is provided to maintain the program , but Mr. Rudman also succeeded in attaching language seeking to curb the authority of the current board 
The effective date of any new regulations by the current board would be delayed until Oct. 1 next year 
The effective date of any new regulations by the current board would be delayed until Oct. 1 next year , and the bill seeks to reverse efforts by the corporation to cut off funds to service organizations such as the Food Research and Action Center . 
Both accounts reflect significant increases from fiscal 1989 
Mercury , which has assets of more than $ 2 billion and 24 branches in California , said the action to improve its regulatory capital position is related directly to new capital requirements mandated by recently adopted federal legislation . 
Watching Congress sweat and grimace through its annual budget labors , fighting the urge to spend more , we 're reminded of those late-night movies in which the anguished serial killer turns himself in to police and says , `` Stop me 
The Members know they 're doing wrong 
Arkansas Democrat David Pryor spilled his guts on the Senate floor the other day 
`` Frankly , as I was walking back to get in my car , I heard many , many people ... opening champagne bottles and celebrating individual victories that some of us had accomplished in getting our little deal in the tax bill and winking at this person for slipping this in 
`` As I was driving home , I did not feel very good about myself 
We can applaud Mr. Pryor 's moment of epiphany 
We can applaud Mr. Pryor 's moment of epiphany , even as we understand that he and his confreres need restraint 
The Coats bill , which already has 32 Senate co-sponsors , is n't a pure line-item veto 
The Coats bill , which already has 32 Senate co-sponsors , is n't a pure line-item veto because it would apply only to spending bills . 
Congress would have 20 days to reject the package with a 50 % majority 
Congress would have 20 days to reject the package with a 50 % majority 
Congress would have 20 days to reject the package with a 50 % majority , but then a President could veto that rejection . 
Presidents Kennedy and Johnson were both big users of the impoundment power 
Today a President can still send up spending rescissions 
Today a President can still send up spending rescissions , but they 're meaningless 
This is like asking foxes to feel remorse about chickens 
In 1987 , President Reagan sent 73 rescissions back to the Hill 
Senator Coats 's proposal would let the proposed spending cuts take place automatically 
The Members could still try to serve their constituents with special-interest goodies 
The Members could still try to serve their constituents with special-interest goodies , but the police -LRB- in the form of a President -RRB- would be there with a straitjacket 
President Bush has endorsed the idea 
We 're told Senator Pryor is n't yet a co-sponsor 
We 're told Senator Pryor is n't yet a co-sponsor , but if he and his colleagues are serious about kicking their compulsions , they 'll sign up 
Business and civic operations lurched back toward normalcy here 
`` That is a minimum figure 
`` That is a minimum figure , and I underscore minimum , '' said House Speaker Thomas Foley -LRB- D. , Wash . -RRB- 
The Office of Management and Budget has begun looking into legislation to provide more funds for earthquake repairs . 
Banks indicated they were operating at greater than 90 % of their usual capacity 
Securities-trading operations were moved to Bank of America 's Concord office 
Only five of 496 branches statewide remain closed 
Many streets and sidewalks buckled 
California lawmakers are seeking changes in rules governing the federal highway relief program 
The city 's main library is closed because of fissures that opened in its walls 
At Fireman 's Fund Corp. , a spokesman said 142 claims were received in the first 24 hours after the quake 
`` Claims range from a scratched fender -- and there were an awful lot of cars damaged in this -- to a major processing plant 
California lawmakers want to eliminate temporarily a $ 100 million cap on the amount of federal highway relief for each state for each disaster , as well as a prohibition on using the emergency highway aid to repair toll roads . 
For interstate highways , the federal share normally would drop to 90 % of the cost of repairs 
In addition , under the highway-relief program , the federal government provides 100 % of emergency highway aid for only the first 90 days of a repair effort . 
California lawmakers want to eliminate temporarily a $ 100 million cap on the amount of federal highway relief for each state for each disaster , as well as a prohibition on using the emergency highway aid to repair toll roads . 
Banks indicated they were operating at greater than 90 % of their usual capacity , but a Nob Hill hotel said tourists had fled , leaving the previously full hotel with an 80 % vacancy rate . City crews tallied the wreckage to buildings , but lacked a clear sense of how gravely transportation arteries were disabled . Among the city 's banks , Bank of America said all but eight of its 850 branches were open . The closed branches , in San Francisco , Hayward , Santa Clara and Santa Cruz , sustained structural damage . Power failures kept just seven of its 1,500 automated-teller machines off-line . Securities-trading operations were moved to Bank of America 's Concord office , and foreign-exchange trading operations were shifted to Los Angeles , the bank said . Wells Fargo & Co. said its Emergency Operations Committee -- which met all night Tuesday -- moved its global-funds transfer system to El Monte , Calif. , 500 miles to the south . Only five of 496 branches statewide remain closed , while 23 of 600 automated-teller machines remained out of order . The most extensive damage was in small towns near the quake 's epicenter , 80 miles south of San Francisco . Santa Cruz County estimates total damage at nearly $ 600 million . Santa Clara County has a running total so far of $ 504 million , excluding the hard-hit city of Los Gatos . Oakland officials were still uncertain about the magnitude of structural damage late yesterday ; a section of I-880 , a twotiered highway , collapsed in Oakland , causing a majority of the deaths resulting from the quake . San Francisco Mayor Art Agnos estimated that damages to the city total $ 2 billion . That includes dwellings in the ravaged Marina district that must be demolished , peeled business facades south of Market Street , and houses in the city 's outer Richmond district that were heaved off their foundations . Many streets and sidewalks buckled , and subterranean water mains and service connections ruptured . The federal funds would go to a range of programs , including the Federal Emergency Management Agency , highway construction accounts and the Small Business Administration , according to Rep. Vic Fazio -LRB- D. , Calif . -RRB- . FEMA , which coordinates federal disaster relief , is already strapped by the costs of cleaning up after Hurricane Hugo , which hit the Carolinas last month . It is likely to get as much as $ 800 million initially in additional funds , and eventually could get more than $ 1 billion , according to Mr. Fazio , a member of the House Appropriations Committee . White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said there is enough money on hand to deal with immediate requirements . The Bush administration has at its disposal $ 273 million in funds remaining from the $ 1.1 billion Congress released for the cleanup after Hurricane Hugo . `` We feel we have the money necessary to handle the immediate , short-term requirements , '' Mr. Fitzwater said . He added that the Office of Management and Budget , the Transportation Department and other agencies are `` developing longer-term legislation '' that should be ready soon . Much of the cost of cleaning up after the earthquake will involve repairing highways and bridges . California lawmakers are seeking changes in rules governing the federal highway relief program so more money can be made available for the state . Some things ca n't be repaired . The Asian Art Museum in Golden Gate Park reports $ 10 million to $ 15 million in damage , including shattered porcelains and stone figures . Its neighbor , the De Young Museum , totaled $ 3 million to $ 5 million in structural damage and shattered sculpture . The city 's main library is closed because of fissures that opened in its walls , and marble facings and ornamental plaster at the Beaux Arts City Hall broke off in the temblor . The ground along the Embarcadero the street that skirts the city 's eastern boundary and piers -- dropped six inches after the quake , wreaking major damage to at least one of the piers . At San Francisco International Airport , shock waves wrecked the control tower , knocking down computers and shattering glass . Offices of the city 's Rent Board were destroyed . Mayor Agnos 's $ 2 billion estimate does n't include damage to freeway arteries leading into the city , some of which remained closed . A major chunk of the $ 2 billion is expected to be eaten up by overtime for city workers deployed in the emergency , said a spokesman for Mr. Agnos . `` All of the city 's $ 5.9 million emergency reserve was spent in the first 24 hours '' on overtime salaries , he said . Insurers struggled to to get a firm grasp on the volume of claims pouring into their offices . At Fireman 's Fund Corp. , a spokesman said 142 claims were received in the first 24 hours after the quake , and the company is braced for as many as 5,000 claims from its 35,000 residential and 35,000 business policyholders in the affected area . `` Claims range from a scratched fender -- and there were an awful lot of cars damaged in this -- to a major processing plant , '' a spokesman said . `` We 're delivering a check for $ 750,000 to an automotive business in Berkeley that burned on Tuesday . '' Fireman 's is part of a $ 38 million syndicate that supplies business interruption insurance to the city on the Bay Bridge , which must pay employees during the three weeks or more it is expected to be out of service and deprived of toll income . California lawmakers want to eliminate temporarily a $ 100 million cap on the amount of federal highway relief for each state for each disaster , as well as a prohibition on using the emergency highway aid to repair toll roads . In addition , under the highway-relief program , the federal government provides 100 % of emergency highway aid for only the first 90 days of a repair effort . After that , the federal share diminishes . For interstate highways , the federal share normally would drop to 90 % of the cost of repairs , and the state would have to pick up the remainder of the cost . But lawmakers want to extend the period for 100 % federal funding for several months . Those changes also would apply to two areas hit hard by Hurricane Hugo -- South Carolina and the U.S. Virgin Islands , according to an aide to Rep. Fazio . 
The state is calling in a flotilla of navy landing vessels and other boats to expand ferry service across the bay and hopes to add numerous new bus routes and train departures to help alleviate the traffic problem . 
`` One lady from New York said she 's not going home 
There are no easy choices in Cambodia 
Now that Vietnam appears to have pulled out its occupation army , the State Department is talking again about accepting an `` interim '' coalition government in the Cambodian capital of Phnom Penh 
Within two years , the moderates were exiled or in prison , Nicaragua had gone communist 
In Laos , when the Western powers bowed to pressure for such a coalition it turned out they were opening the door to communist domination 
It 's not clear which crew of communists might prevail in a coalition government 
The Hun Sen regime has sent thousands of conscript laborers to die of malaria and malnourishment 
The Hun Sen regime has sent thousands of conscript laborers to die of malaria and malnourishment while building Cambodia 's equivalent of the Berlin Wall near the Thai border . 
The world might want to believe that the Khmer Rouge ca n't still be such bad guys , just as in the late 1970s it was reluctant to credit the reports of genocide then taking place . 
But there is no solid evidence that the Khmer Rouge have changed . 
True , Prince Sihanouk backs the idea of such a coalition , at least for this week . 
So it 's difficult to swallow the notion that Mr. Baker is willing to accept conditions that would help the Khmer Rouge set up shop again in Phnom Penh . 
U.S. diplomacy has done it before 
The administration and Congress have lately tangoed around the idea of sending military aid to Cambodia 's non-communists . 
But now the possibility of `` diplomatic movement '' -LRB- Vietnam 's withdrawal , the Baker initiative -RRB- has put that plan on hold , with the proviso that if the going got rough , the U.S. would then rearm the opposition 
When that day comes , it would be particularly awful to know that the United States sat on military aid and deprived these people of the means to settle their fate with at least a little honor 
Michael F. Harris , 53 , was named executive vice president , North America , for the Financial Times , the business newspaper published by this company 
It is eliminating the positions of president and chief operating officer , formerly held by Edward L. Marinaro . 
FileNet noted that it had cash and marketable securities totaling $ 22.5 million on Sept. 30 
Manufacturers frequently do n't have anyone who is a specialist in natural gas 
`` The carpetbaggers , '' snorts the narrator with a Texas twang , `` have packed their bags and went . '' 
As the music swells , viewers discover they 're watching a commercial for Lone Star Beer , the pride of Texas , a product of G. Heileman Brewing Co. , a La Crosse , Wis. , unit of Bond Corp 
As the ad 's tone implies , the Texas spirit is pretty xenophobic these days 
While advertisers have long appealed to Texans ' state pride and prejudices , the latest trend has been sparked , in part , by the state 's recent hard economic times 
That has taken some of the swagger out of natives who like to brag that Texas is the only state that was once a nation 
In the past , writes Houston Chronicle columnist Jim Barlow , outlanders were accepted 
In the past , writes Houston Chronicle columnist Jim Barlow , outlanders were accepted only after passing a series of tests to prove they had the `` right '' Texas attitudes 
There is no small irony in the fact that some of the most-jingoistic advertising comes courtesy of -- you guessed it -- outsiders . 
`` This plays right into the hands of the advertising agencies . '' 
For example , the iced-tea radio campaign for Thomas J. Lipton Co. , an Englewood Cliffs , N.J. , unit of Anglo-Dutch Unilever Group , emphatically proclaims : `` Real Texans do not wear dock-siders -- ever . Real Texans do n't play paddleball , at least I hope not . This is football country . 
Not exactly sophisticated market research 
Not exactly sophisticated market research , but who cares 
Not exactly sophisticated market research , but who cares as long as the campaigns work . 
The North Texas Chevy Dealers recently had a record sales month 
The North Texas Chevy Dealers recently had a record sales month after the debut of ad campaign that thumbs its nose at elite Easterners . 
And deposits at NCNB Texas National Bank , a unit of NCNB Corp. , Charlotte , N.C. , have increased $ 2 billion since last year 
Because they want a truck that is `` Texas tough , '' the commercial concludes , `` Texans drive Chevy 
According to several ad-agency sources , newcomers to the Texas banking market are spending a combined $ 50 million this year to woo Texans . 
The most-strident anti-outsider sentiment among bankers comes from the Independent Bankers Association of Texas 
The most-strident anti-outsider sentiment among bankers comes from the Independent Bankers Association of Texas , although it 's hard to tell from previews of the $ 5 million `` The I 's of Texas '' TV campaign . 
`` Texans can sniff a phony a mile away , '' the narrator warns outsiders . 
The ad is part of Classic Coke 's 1990 ad campaign , with the tag line , `` Ca n't beat the Real Thing . '' 
Although the personal computer maker said it expects revenue to meet or exceed previous projections of $ 385 million for the year ending Jan. 28 , 1990 , earnings are expected to be 25 cents to 35 cents a share , down from previous estimates of 50 cents to 60 cents 
Some delays have been caused by a shortage of micoprocessors -- notably Intel Corp. 's newest chip , the 486 
`` They 've got a lot of different balls in the air at the same time , '' observes Jim Poyner , a computer securities analyst with Dallas-based William K. Woodruff & Co . 
Mr. Dell attributed the earnings slide to new product delays , such as a laptop scheduled for September that wo n't be introduced until early November . 
Product delays , however , have left Dell buffeted by harsher competition in its bread-and-butter line of desktop computers 
Analyst James Weil of the Soundview Financial Group believes Dell 's response has been to place increased emphasis on product quality , `` in an effort to rise above some of that price pressure . '' 
But that has been the key to Compaq 's success 
But that has been the key to Compaq 's success , he adds , whereas Dell carved out its market niche as a direct seller of low-cost but reliable computers 
Pride Petroleum Services Inc. said it agreed to buy well-servicing assets of two companies and expects to report higher third-quarter revenue and earnings . 
Schlumberger Ltd. , New York , reported third-quarter net income edged up 
The lower interest income occurred 
Revenue declined 6.3 % to $ 1.11 billion from $ 1.18 billion . 
The group has n't forecast full-year earnings for 1989 
Few specialists said they expect the quake to have much of an effect on most California property values . 
Neither she nor other real-estate executives and brokers could project how much less Marina properties might bring 
Because of the size of the California market , few relocation specialists expect a widespread corporate flight in the quake 's aftermath . 
Because of the quake threat , `` some firms have evaluated what the cost is to shore up their buildings and compared it with the cost of building it elswehere , '' he said . 
Nationwide Health said that although it has the cash to cover the 25-cent-a-share dividend , its banks have denied the company 's request to pay it 
Nationwide Health said that although it has the cash to cover the 25-cent-a-share dividend , its banks have denied the company 's request to pay it 
Nationwide Health said it has `` numerous financing activities '' under way to remedy the problem 
Nationwide Health said it has `` numerous financing activities '' under way to remedy the problem and will make up the dividend payment later 
Under terms of the transaction , which was proposed in June , Doman said it acquired International Forest Products Ltd. 's 22 % stake in Western Forest 
Under terms of the transaction , which was proposed in June , Doman said it acquired International Forest Products Ltd. 's 22 % stake in Western Forest , and Western Forest , in a related transaction , bought back a 22 % interest in the company from Fletcher Challenge Canada Ltd . 
The Fletcher Challenge Canada stake was then canceled , Doman said , raising Doman 's interest in Western Forest to 56 % . 
The extension of federal regulatory authority over telephone utilities in the Atlantic provinces has n't required special legislation 
Since the preferred stock is cumulative , Amdura said it will pay all omitted dividends , which range from $ 1.19 to $ 4.88 a share , when debt-reduction requirements have been met 
Since the preferred stock is cumulative , Amdura said it will pay all omitted dividends 
The company 's new management , which took control of Amdura 's board after a consent solicitation last month , wanted to extend the loan 
Three savings-and-loan institutions in Kansas and Texas were added to the Resolution Trust Corp. 's conservatorship program 
The three insolvent thrifts will maintain normal business hours and operations under RTC-appointed managing agents 
Three savings-and-loan institutions in Kansas and Texas were added to the Resolution Trust Corp. 's conservatorship program after federal regulators declared the thrifts insolvent and named the RTC their receiver . 
The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. approved the assumption of Century 's deposits and fully secured liabilities by a newly chartered subsidiary of Valley Capital Corp. , Las Vegas . 
The new institution is also called Century Bank 
The newly chartered bank will assume about $ 125.7 million in 10,300 deposit accounts and pay the FDIC a purchase premium of $ 2.9 million . 
It also will buy about $ 91.7 million of assets 
The announcement came 
IBM and MCA formed Discovision in 1979 to make laser-read optical products . 
After reportedly investing $ 100 million in the business , Discovision ceased manufacturing operations in 1982 and sold many of its assets to Tokyo-based Pioneer , among others 
Discovision now has world-wide license agreements with major manufacturers covering CD audio disks , audio disk players , videodisks and videodisk players . 
James N. Fiedler , president of Discovision and a vice president of MCA , said that IBM and MCA had n't planned to sell the joint venture , which is now profitable 
He said it is n't certain whether Discovision 's current management will remain 
Tokyo stocks closed higher in moderately active but directionless trading 
Tokyo stocks closed higher in moderately active but directionless trading as the recent anxiety in world stock markets continued to fade . 
London shares also closed firmer in thin trading driven largely by technical factors and support from a new Wall Street rally . 
The morning session was dominated by individuals and dealers 
Hiroyuki Murai , general manager of the stock trading division at Nikko Securities , said that after looking at the reasons for Friday 's Wall Street plunge , participants realized that the Tokyo and New York markets have different economic fundamentals 
Yoshiaki Mitsuoka , head of the investment information department at Daiwa Investment Trust & Management , said that if New York stocks just fluctuate in or near their current range , the Tokyo market will remain firm with a moderately upward trend for the rest of the year 
Yoshiaki Mitsuoka , head of the investment information department at Daiwa Investment Trust & Management , said that if New York stocks just fluctuate in or near their current range , the Tokyo market will remain firm with a moderately upward trend for the rest of the year . 
But traders said the market lacks a base on which to set long-term buying strategy 
`` Investor interest switches back and forth ceaselessly 
Many of Wednesday 's winners were losers yesterday 
Fujisawa Pharmaceutical gained 130 to 1,930 yen -LRB- $ 13.64 -RRB- a share , Mochida Pharmaceutical was up 150 at 4,170 
Daiwa House advanced 100 to 2,610 , Misawa Homes was up 60 at 2,940 
Housing issues were boosted by a report that Daiwa House expects to post 43 % higher earnings for its latest fiscal year , traders said . 
Ohbayashi was up 60 to close at 1,680 , Shimizu gained 50 to 2,120 
Steel shares fell back 
Kawasaki Steel was down 11 at 788 , Kobe Steel lost 5 to 723 
Mitsubishi Rayon , a leading advancer Wednesday , fell 44 to 861 
Dealers said the market was underpinned by a squeeze in FT-SE 100 stocks , particularly among market-makers seeking shares that had been hit hard in recent weeks , such as retailers and building-related concerns . 
Insurers recovered ground again on market-maker demand and speculative buying linked to talk of mergers in the industry 
Sun Alliance fell 1 to close at 289 
B.A.T Industries surged in afternoon dealings 
B.A.T Industries surged in afternoon dealings after its shareholders approved a plan to dispose of its U.S. and U.K. retailing operations to fend off Hoylake Investment 's # 13.4 billion -LRB- $ 21.33 billion -RRB- hostile bid . 
In other European markets , shares closed sharply higher in Stockholm , Frankfurt , Zurich and Paris and higher in Milan , Amsterdam and Brussels . 
Mr. Agnos declined the invitations , the White House said . 
The White House announced that Mr. Agnos , along with the mayors of Oakland and Alameda , are to accompany President Bush on a tour of the earthquake area today . 
Gold and silver broker Preston Semel asked a federal court to halt the Commodity Exchange from imposing a record $ 550,000 fine on his firm . 
The lawsuit states that unless the sanctions are halted pending an appeal , the broker and his firm `` will be irreparably injured and their business will be totally and permanently destroyed 
The lawsuit states that unless the sanctions are halted pending an appeal , the broker and his firm `` will be irreparably injured 
Already the firm has paid $ 211,666 of the fine 
Xtra , a transportation leasing company , said in a statement it would have no comment on Mr. Gintel 's plans 
Xtra , a transportation leasing company , said in a statement it would have no comment on Mr. Gintel 's plans until `` further information has been disclosed by him . '' 
STOCKS AND BONDS SURGED on the second anniversary of Black Monday 
The Dow Jones industrials closed up 39.55 , at 2683.20 
The dollar finished mixed 
Energy prices continued to fall at the retail level 
The move is a setback for Bush , who needs Democratic support to pass a capital-gains cut in the Senate . 
Other tax breaks also are likely to be restored or created in the coming months 
Many retailers are worried that a price war could erupt this Christmas 
AT&T unveiled a sweetened early retirement plan for management that the company hopes will save it $ 450 million in the next year . 
Bell Atlantic posted a strong earnings gain for the third quarter , as did Southern New England Telecommunications . 
NASA awarded the contract to CSC in November 
NASA awarded the contract to CSC in November but an appeal by Sterling Software Inc. of Dallas sent the contract to the General Services Administration Board of Contract Appeals 
As power and commuters returned to much of downtown San Francisco for the first time since Tuesday 's temblor in the Bay area , three strong aftershocks , one measuring 5.0 on the Richter scale , jolted the region 
As power and commuters returned to much of downtown San Francisco for the first time since Tuesday 's temblor in the Bay area , three strong aftershocks , one measuring 5.0 on the Richter scale , jolted the region . 
Bush is to visit the area today 
While the proposal won a slight majority , the 51-48 vote was well short of the two-thirds needed to approve changes in the Constitution 
The reversal came 
As they conferred near East Berlin , a pro-democracy protest erupted in the Baltic city of Greifswald , and activists threatened further rallies against leader Krenz 's expected hard-line policies 
As they conferred near East Berlin , a pro-democracy protest erupted in the Baltic city of Greifswald 
Police in Prague raided an international meeting on human rights , detaining Czechoslovakia 's former foreign minister , Jiri Hajak , and 14 other activists . 
The Galileo spacecraft sped unerringly toward the planet Jupiter 
Argentina and Britain agreed to resume diplomatic and economic relations 
Rebel artillerists bombarded the capital of Afghanistan , killing at least 12 people 
Rebel artillerists bombarded the capital of Afghanistan , killing at least 12 people , as the Soviet Union was reported to be airlifting arms and food to Kabul 's forces . 
The talks came 
After slipping on news of a smaller-than-expected U.S. inflation figure , the dollar rebounded later in the trading day 
The September index fueled speculation , damaging to the dollar , that the Federal Reserve soon will ease monetary policy further . 
They noted that because the consumer price index , known as the CPI , is a more comprehensive measure of inflation and is rising less rapidly than the producer-price index , or PPI , it could signal further easing by Fed 
They noted that because the consumer price index , known as the CPI , is a more comprehensive measure of inflation and is rising less rapidly than the producer-price index , or PPI , it could signal further easing by Fed . 
Kevin Logan , chief economist with the Swiss Bank Corp. , said that both PPI and CPI climbed around 4 1\/2 % year-to-year in September . 
In all , the Los Angeles-based trust plans to sell its interests in 36 hotels 
After completing the sale and paying debts , the trust and corporation will consider a number of options including a stock repurchase , payment of special dividend or investment in more gaming properties 
A group bidding for American Medical International Inc. , New York , said it formally received the final financing needed for a $ 3 billion bid for about 86 % of the hospital operator 's stock . 
American Medical said it would pursue the inquiries from the companies , but would n't identify them 
Some money managers are disenchanted with H&R Block 
Block 's tax-preparation business is mature 
The company has consistently earned more than a 20 % annual return on its net worth 
The company has consistently earned more than a 20 % annual return on its net worth while many companies would be happy with 15 % . 
`` You go to any medium-sized town in the 
That was 
Mr. Cremonie 's firm once held about 4.8 % of H&R Block . 
Last week the stock hit an all-time high of 37 1\/4 
`` If you invested $ 10,000 in the initial public offering in 1962 , it would be worth well over $ 5 million today 
None dare say to sell it . 
Eugene Sit , president of Sit Investment Associates in Minneapolis , says , `` When we bought it , we thought the growth rate was going to accelerate '' because of computerized tax filing and instant refunds 
Eugene Sit , president of Sit Investment Associates in Minneapolis , says , `` When we bought it , we thought the growth rate was going to accelerate '' because of computerized tax filing and instant refunds -LRB- the customer gets a refund immediately but pays extra to the tax preparer , which waits for Uncle Sam 's check -RRB- . 
That 's `` not bad 
`` The stock was going no place 
The CompuServe subsidiary -LRB- which provides information to home-computer users -RRB- is `` where the growth is 
Thomas M. Bloch , president and chief operating officer , says `` I would disagree '' that the tax business is mature . 
`` We 're still interested -LCB- in diversifying -RCB- 
`` We 're still interested -LCB- in diversifying -RCB- , '' he says , `` but we 'd rather be prudent than make a mistake . '' 
He also says CompuServe 's earnings continue to grow `` 20 % to 30 % a year '' in spite of tough competition from giants like Sears and IBM . 
The Chicago Board of Trade , the No. 1 U.S. grain market , had long chafed under the attention won by its innovative archrival , the livestock-dealing Mercantile Exchange . 
So the men who ran the grain pits listened 
By the end of 1973 , the number of `` underlying '' Big Board stocks had been increased to 50 
In its ruling , the NRC said that because Seabrook will be allowed to charge rates sufficient to run the plant and make payments on past construction costs , consideration of the owners ' financial condition is pointless 
In January 1988 , the utility filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the federal Bankruptcy Code , allowing it to continue to operate 
Bristol-Myers Co. and Squibb Corp. , Princeton , N.J. , merged Oct. 4 
Glass sales to Canadian and European auto makers and sales of replacement auto glass in all markets increased . 
Glass sales to Canadian and European auto makers and sales of replacement auto glass in all markets increased . The coating segment also posted higher sales particularly in North America and Europe . 
But sale increases were offset by slumping sales in flat glass and fiberglass reinforcements , the company said . 
Jefferies Group Inc. said third-quarter net income fell 4 % , to $ 2.2 million , or 35 cents a share , from $ 2.3 million , or 31 cents a share on more shares , a year earlier . 
The Japanese company said the waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino antitrust act for the $ 3.4 billion bid for Columbia 
Sony has agreed to buy both companies , but is in a legal battle with Warner Communications Inc. over the services of producers Peter Guber and Jon Peters . 
China said the question of Taiwan 's membership in the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade should be considered 
The Nationalists withdrew in 1950 , after their flight to Taiwan 
An appeals-court panel slashed all but $ 40,000 from the award , the largest ever set by a British jury , pending a reassessment of the damages . 
But the panel dismissed the magazine 's contention that it had n't libeled Mrs. Sutcliffe 
Private Eye had been threatened with closure 
Senshukai said the partners plan to rent to tourists 
Senshukai has a 60 % stake in the venture 
Japan says its economic growth will fall sharply 
A Ministry of International Trade and Industry official said that a study found that Japan 's annual economic growth rate would eventually be only 0.8 % 
The study said Japan 's carbon-dioxide emissions would slightly more than double by 2010 
It said that expanding nuclear-power capability is the quickest way to lessen that dependence . 
About 5,500 hourly workers will be laid off for a week beginning Oct. 23 
Sales of Cherokee , the best-selling Jeep , and the lower-volume Wagoneer were actually up about 10 % through the end of last month . 
But that 's less than Chrysler officials had hoped 
Even when it became clear this spring that demand was n't coming up to expectations , Chrysler officials `` resisted '' cutting output because Cherokee and Wagoneer are `` very profitable vehicles 
Even when it became clear this spring that demand was n't coming up to expectations , Chrysler officials `` resisted '' cutting output 
Even when it became clear this spring that demand was n't coming up to expectations , Chrysler officials `` resisted '' cutting output because Cherokee and Wagoneer are `` very profitable vehicles , '' the spokesman said . 
The incentives boosted sales for a while 
`` If people are n't buying , you have to close plants 
Slowing sales of its profitable Jeep Cherokee and Wagoneer sport utility vehicles are forcing Chrysler Corp. to temporarily idle its Toledo , Ohio , assembly plant for the first time since April 1986 . 
Chrysler officials said the plant is scheduled to resume production on Nov. 
Separately , Chrysler said it will idle for four weeks the St. Louis assembly plant that builds the Chrysler LeBaron and Dodge Daytona models . 
The Corsica and Beretta make up the highest-volume car line at Chevrolet 
Slowing sales of its profitable Jeep Cherokee and Wagoneer sport utility vehicles are forcing Chrysler Corp. to temporarily idle its Toledo , Ohio , assembly plant for the first time since April 1986 . Ford Motor Co. said it will shut down for one week its Kentucky Truck Plant because of a `` shortage of dealer orders . '' Separately , Chrysler said it will idle for four weeks the St. Louis assembly plant that builds the Chrysler LeBaron and Dodge Daytona models . General Motors Corp. , meanwhile , said it will idle for yet another week its Linden , N.J. , assembly plant , bringing to three weeks the total time that plant will be idled during October . 
Loral Corp. said fiscal second-quarter net income was $ 19.8 million , or 79 cents a share , compared with year-earlier earnings from continuing operations of $ 15.6 million , or 62 cents a share . 
HealthVest , an Austin , Texas , real estate investment trust , said that Chemical Bank , the lead bank under its domestic bank agreement , told it that if $ 3.3 million owed to the bank group is n't paid by today , the group will call the $ 120 million that HealthVest has outstanding under the credit line 
HealthVest , an Austin , Texas , real estate investment trust , said that Chemical Bank , the lead bank under its domestic bank agreement , told it that if $ 3.3 million owed to the bank group is n't paid by today , the group will call the $ 120 million that HealthVest has outstanding under the credit line . 
HealthVest , an Austin , Texas , real estate investment trust , said that Chemical Bank , the lead bank under its domestic bank agreement , told it that if $ 3.3 million owed to the bank group is n't paid by today , the group will call the $ 120 million that HealthVest has outstanding under the credit line . 
HealthVest , an Austin , Texas , real estate investment trust , said that Chemical Bank , the lead bank under its domestic bank agreement , told it that if $ 3.3 million owed to the bank group is n't paid by today , the group will call the $ 120 million that HealthVest has outstanding under the credit line . 
In addition , HealthVest said Bank of Tokyo Trust Co. also has notified it of a default and said it might take action to cure the default . 
HealthVest is in a severe liquidity bind 
To be economically feasible , the 11 billion Canadian dollar -LRB- US$ 9.37 billion -RRB- project requires almost a doubling of natural gas export prices . 
The board estimated that the cost of building a pipeline from the Mackenzie delta to Alberta would be about C$ 5.9 million . 
Esso , a unit of Imperial Oil Ltd. which is 71%-owned by Exxon Corp. , will be allowed to export 5.1 trillion cubic feet to the U.S. in the 20-year period . Shell , a subsidiary of Royal Dutch\/Shell Group , will be allowed to export 0.9 trillion cubic feet , and Gulf , a unit of Olympia & York Developments Ltd. will be allowed to export 3.2 trillion cubic feet . 
The company agreed to sell its minority investments in makers of steam-generating and related equipment , Stein Industrie and Energie & Verfahrenstechnik , to the major shareholder in the companies , Dutch-based GEC Alsthom N.V . 
Assets of Construction Equipment International , Houston , were sold to Essex Crane 
It depends on when you look . 
That rose to nearly 18 % during the Depression , and has n't changed much since . 
In 1900 , for instance , less than 8 % of assets went into bank deposits . That rose to nearly 18 % during the Depression , and has n't changed much since . Pension reserves , on the other hand , made up a relatively small part of household assets until the last decade , when they skyrocketed . 
Some results are self-explanatory . 
But other figures are surprising . 
Housing , for instance , has remained a fairly steady component of household assets over the past decade 
`` There is a lot of attention paid to housing as a form of household wealth , '' says Edward N. Wolff , professor of economics at New York University . 
It suggests that households accumulate wealth across a broad spectrum of assets . 
And housing though it appears in the popular mind as being the major -LCB- growing -RCB- household asset , is n't 
Housing , for instance , has remained a fairly steady component of household assets over the past decade -- although common wisdom would have expected an increase . 
McCaw Cellular Communications Inc. said it sent a letter to LIN Broadcasting Corp. clarifying its revised tender offer for LIN and asking LIN to conduct `` a fair auction . '' 
LIN would have a priority right to pursue all opportunities to acquire U.S. cellular interests in markets other than those in which McCaw holds an interest , or which are contiguous to those markets 
Independent directors would have veto rights to any acquisition 
If LIN is put up for sale rather than purchased by McCaw in five years , McCaw wo n't submit a bid unless the independent directors request it , and the independent directors will run the bidding 
If LIN is put up for sale rather than purchased by McCaw in five years , McCaw wo n't submit a bid 
If LIN is put up for sale rather than purchased by McCaw in five years , McCaw wo n't submit a bid unless the independent directors request it 
The entertainment concern said the success of several movies released during the quarter , including `` Parenthood '' and `` Uncle Buck , '' contributed to record revenue for its film unit . 
The parent company 's net included a loss -- which it did n't specify -- that was related to the company 's 50 % stake in Cineplex Odeon Corp . 
I never pay my bills Till the very last day ; I lose far less interest By proceeding that way . 
The effete Tyrannosaurus Rex Had strict Cretaceous views on sex 
Helmsley 's insurance division had slightly exceeded that percentage 
Adverse publicity from the scandal surrounding its founder 's wife and related management strife have put pressure on the entire Helmsley organization . 
Outside the white-walled headquarters of the socalled Society of Orange Workers , all seems normal in South Africa 's abnormal society . 
White women serve tea and coffee 
White women serve tea and coffee 
`` If we want to have our own nation 
`` If we want to have our own nation , then we must be willing to do all the work ourselves , '' says Hendrik Verwoerd Jr. , son of the former prime minister and the leader of the Orange Workers , founded in 1980 . 
The pillars of apartheid may be trembling in the rest of South Africa , with Johannesburg opening its public facilities to all races , blacks storming the all-white beaches of the Cape and the government releasing seven leaders of the banned African National Congress . 
The Orange Workers -- who take their name from William of Orange of the Netherlands , a hero of the Dutch-descended Afrikaners -- believe that the solution to South Africa 's racial problems is n't the abolition of apartheid , it 's the perfection of apartheid -- complete and total separation of the races . 
This may seem to be a preposterous and utterly futile effort in Africa . 
This may seem to be a preposterous and utterly futile effort in Africa . And the fact that there are only 3,000 card-carrying Orange Workers may put them on the loony fringe . 
The Orange Workers are just putting this preaching into practice . 
Over at the fiberglass factory , four white workers assemble water tanks on their own 
On Main Street , Alida Verwoerd and her daughters look after the clothes and fabric shop 
If whites want to play there by themselves , says consulting engineer Willem van Heerden , whites should also build it by themselves 
If whites want to play there by themselves 
`` If we want to survive as a people , '' he says , `` we have to change our way of life 
`` If apartheid means you want cheap black labor and all the comforts that go with it , but you also want to exclude the blacks from social and political integration 
`` If apartheid means you want cheap black labor and all the comforts that go with it 
`` If apartheid means you want cheap black labor and all the comforts that go with it 
`` People took separate development as an opportunity to use black labor without ever getting rid of it . 
According to Mr. Verwoerd , the early Afrikaner pioneers were the first people to settle in the eastern Transvaal , even before the blacks . 
Then , when Morgenzon was incorporated in 1908 , the farmer who owned the land stipulated that only whites could reside in town 
Then , when Morgenzon was incorporated in 1908 , the farmer who owned the land stipulated that only whites could reside in town ; blacks could work there 
Weeds push up through the cracks in the sidewalks 
So far , about 150 Orange Workers have moved here , spending nearly $ 1 million buying up property over the past three years . 
We need them 
The son believes that when the Afrikaners finally realize there is no turning back the integration of South African society and politics , Morgenzon will boom 
`` We urge our people not to wait 
`` The ANC wo n't be stopped 
`` The ANC wo n't be stopped until there is a provision for black aspirations , '' says Mr. Verwoerd . 
`` Look , '' he says , `` If the rest of South Africa wants to have an integrated melting pot , that 's their choice 
We just want to have our own cup of tea . '' 
Okay , now you can pick up that phone . 
`` The market is sending nervous signals 
We expect a choppy and sloppy market for a short period 
We expect a choppy and sloppy market for a short period , but we do n't think it will be ugly . The downside is limited . '' 
`` Sell stocks that are n't doing well now 
If earnings do n't live up to analysts ' expectations , he says , that 's enough to dump the stock 
An earnings disappointment may reflect a situation that 's short-term . 
The economy is decelerating after six good years 
The economy is decelerating after six good years , and `` right now it 's better to shoot first 
Mr. Canelo of Bear Stearns agrees : `` If we do have an economic slowdown , '' he says , `` companies with high debt ratios will be dumped en masse 
Takeover activity will slow down 
Takeover activity will slow down as more and more banks tighten their lending requirements , he says . `` There 'll be fewer and fewer deals . '' 
`` If you think earnings will grow at 20 % a year , it 's all right to pay 20 times earnings 
`` If you think earnings will grow at 20 % a year , it 's all right to pay 20 times earnings , '' he says . 
Mr. Canelo thinks the market will probably go higher , but `` will be ruthless with stocks 
`` If you say sell anytime a company 's price\/earnings ratio exceeds 15 , that knocks out all your growth stocks 
Tom Schlesinger , market analyst at A.G. Edwards & Sons Inc. , says investors should consider selling 
Tom Schlesinger , market analyst at A.G. Edwards & Sons Inc. , says investors should consider selling if there has been a fundamental change in a company 
Say you purchased a stock because of a new product that was in the works . Now , because of various difficulties , the product has been scrapped . Time to sell , says Mr. Schlesinger . 
If things have n't worked out that well , and sales wo n't hit $ 200 million until 1992 , it 's time to consider selling 
If things have n't worked out that well 
The union wo n't respond to the USX statement 
Robert A. Oswald , chief financial officer and a director of this natural-gas pipeline company , was elected to the additional position of executive vice president . 
BankAmerica Corp. reported a 34 % jump in third-quarter earnings 
All but eight of the 850 branches , which had some structural damage , reopened yesterday for business . 
For the first time in nearly two years , BankAmerica results failed to improve in consecutive quarters 
Excluding tax credits , profit was 6 % below the second quarter . 
The company cited higher tax credits in the second quarter , totaling $ 63 million , compared with $ 28 million in the third quarter . 
Moreover , BankAmerica continued to build its reserve against troubled foreign loans by boosting its loan-loss provision to $ 170 million , about the same as the previous quarter but well above the $ 100 million in the year-earlier quarter . The provision rate was far above BankAmerica 's actual net credit losses of $ 24 million in the third quarter , compared with $ 18 million in the second period and $ 38 million a year earlier . 
Third-quarter profit was 16 % below the $ 304 million , or $ 1.50 a share , earned in the 1989 second quarter . 
By that key measure of operating efficiency , BankAmerica turned in a better performance than its well-regarded Los Angeles-based competitor , Security Pacific Corp. , which posted a 0.89 % return in the third quarter . 
Many plant floors currently resemble a Tower of Babel , with computers , robots and machine tools that generally speak their own language and have trouble talking to each other . 
As a result , if a problem develops on a production line , it is unlikely some supervisor sitting in front of a personal computer or workstation will know about it or be able to correct it 
Many plant floors currently resemble a Tower of Babel , with computers , robots and machine tools that generally speak their own language and have trouble talking to each other . 
So IBM will be announcing more than 50 products that will be aimed at letting even the dumbest machine tool talk to the smartest mainframe , or anything in between . 
So IBM will be announcing more than 50 products that will be aimed at letting even the dumbest machine tool talk to the smartest mainframe , or anything in between . In an unusual display of openness , IBM also will be helping customers tie together operations that include lots of equipment made by IBM 's competitors . 
The industry executives said that , as usual with such broad announcements from IBM , this one will be part reality and part strategy . 
So it will take many quarters for IBM to roll out all the products that customers need 
So it will take many quarters for IBM to roll out all the products that customers need , and it will take years for customers to integrate the products into their operations . 
So it will take many quarters for IBM to roll out all the products that customers need , and it will take years for customers to integrate the products into their operations . Also as usual , the products will appeal mostly to heavy users of IBM equipment , at least initially . 
`` This is a step in the right direction , '' said Martin Piszczalski , a Yankee Group analyst . 
Still , consultants and industry executives said the products could help make manufacturing operations more efficient , and provide a boost to the computer-integrated-manufacturing market -- a market that Yankee Group , a research firm , has said may double to $ 40 billion by 1993 . 
While IBM has traditionally dominated the market for computers on the business side of manufacturing operations and has done well in the market for design tools , Digital has dominated computerized manufacturing 
While IBM has traditionally dominated the market for computers on the business side of manufacturing operations and has done well in the market for design tools , Digital has dominated computerized manufacturing . 
IBM will face an uphill climb against Digital , given Digital 's reputation for being better than IBM at hooking together different manufacturers ' computers . 
In addition , Hewlett-Packard , while a much smaller player , has made a big commitment to the sorts of industry standards that facilitate those hookups and could give IBM some problems 
Both can be expected to go after the market aggressively : Gartner Group Inc. , a research firm , estimated the Digital gets 30 % of its revenue from the manufacturing market 
That is 
That is because many companies will standardize on certain types of equipment 
That is because many companies will standardize on certain types of equipment as the various parts of the manufacturing market merge 
IBM , which Gartner Group said generates 22 % of its revenue in this market , should be able to take advantage of its loyal following among buyers of equipment . 
The whole idea of computer-integrated manufacturing , CIM , seems to be making a comeback 
Erik Keller , a Gartner Group analyst , said organizational changes may still be required to really take advantage of CIM 's capabilities 
Erik Keller , a Gartner Group analyst , said organizational changes may still be required to really take advantage of CIM 's capabilities -- someone on the shop floor may not like having someone in an office using a personal computer to look over his shoulder , for instance , and may be able to prevent that from happening . 
But he said a system such as IBM 's should help significantly . 
That can be expensive 
That can be expensive , because the problem may not be noticed for a while 
That can be expensive , because the problem may not be noticed for a while , and the sheets are typically thrown away . 
But Mr. Keller said that , if computers can be integrated into the process , they could alert an operator as soon as the problem occurred 
But Mr. Keller said that , if computers can be integrated into the process , they could alert an operator 
But Mr. Keller said that , if computers can be integrated into the process , they could alert an operator as soon as the problem occurred . 
The computer would let the machine run 
This sort of improved link figures to eventually become a significant weapon for some companies . 
Companies might be able to tell salespeople daily , for instance , about idle equipment 
Companies might be able to tell salespeople daily , for instance , about idle equipment , so they could offer discounts on whatever that equipment produces . 
The move to halt imports -- announced 
Merkur 's death is n't nearly as costly to Ford as was the Edsel debacle 
Merkur 's death is n't nearly as costly to Ford as was the Edsel debacle , because Merkur was a relatively low-budget project with limited sales goals . 
The No. 2 auto maker 's new Thunderbird and Mercury Cougar models have n't met sales expectations in the year since they were introduced 
Merkur was originally aimed at enticing into Lincoln-Mercury dealerships the kind of young , affluent buyers who would n't be caught dead in a Town Car -- a vehicle so bargelike that Ford is staging a press event next month linking the Town Car 's launch to the commissioning of a new aircraft carrier in Norfolk , Va . 
The sporty coupe foundered 
Ford officials said they expected the two Merkurs would sell about 15,000 cars a year 
Ford officials said they expected the two Merkurs would sell about 15,000 cars a year , and in 1988 they reached that goal 
Ford officials said they expected the two Merkurs would sell about 15,000 cars a year , and in 1988 they reached that goal , as sales hit 15,261 cars . 
As the West German currency rose , so did Merkur prices 
One major factor was the decline of the dollar against the mark , which began less than a year after Merkur 's 1985 launch . 
The Merkur cars also suffered from spotty quality , some dealers say . 
But by the third quarter of 1988 , Scorpios had a high satisfaction rating in internal Ford studies , a spokesman said . 
Last fall , Ford announced it would discontinue the XR4Ti in the U.S. at the end of the 1989 model year . 
This year , Scorpio sales plummeted 
Canadian Pacific Ltd. said it proposed acquiring the 44 % of Soo Line Corp. it does n't already own for $ 19.50 a share , or about $ 81.9 million 
Canadian Pacific and Soo Line tracks connect at two points in the West on the Canada-U.S. border 
Canadian Pacific Ltd. said it proposed acquiring the 44 % of Soo Line Corp. it does n't already own for $ 19.50 a share , or about $ 81.9 million , after failing to find a buyer for its majority stake earlier this year . 
Golden Nugget Inc. reported a third-quarter net loss of $ 13.1 million , or 76 cents a share , based on 17.2 million common shares and dilutive equivalents outstanding . 
Mr. Franco , 47 years old , said in a telephone interview that he has been considering and discussing a number of possible business ventures 
He said he `` did n't argue with '' the company 's decision to seek his resignation 
Capital Holding Corp. said it requested and received the resignation of John A. Franco , its vice chairman , as an officer and a director of the life insurance holding company . 
Mr. Ruby , 39 , said that he had `` an amicable parting '' with Capital Holding 
He said that his resignation was a mutual decision with Capital Holding management 
The Accumulation and Investment Group is responsible for the investment operations of all Capital Holding 's insurance businesses and markets guaranteed investment contracts to bank trust departments and other institutions . 
PLASTIC PENCILS , CODE-NAMED E-71 , made their hush-hush debut in children 's pencil boxes at five-and-dime stores in 1973 . 
But few knew it then 
Eagle Pencil of Shelbyville , Tenn. , `` Pencil City U.S.A. , '' had made its earliest pilot plastic pencils in 1971 . 
A major difference is that a snapped wooden pencil will have a slivered break 
It 's a trade secret how many were plastic 
H.F. Ahmanson & Co. , the nation 's largest thrift holding company , posted a 12 % earnings decline for the third quarter 
Third-quarter spreads widened to the highest level in two years 
Third-quarter spreads widened to the highest level in two years as loan portfolio yields rose 
Great Western said it had a sharp increase in margins in the recent third quarter . 
Dun & Bradstreet Corp. posted a 15 % rise in third-quarter earnings . 
Analysts said the results were as expected 
`` The quality of earnings was n't as high as I expected , '' said Eric Philo , an analyst for Goldman , Sachs & Co . 
For example , he noted , operating profit was weaker than he had anticipated 
As previously reported , those sales have been declining this year in the wake of allegations that the company engaged in unfair sales practices that encouraged customers to overpurchase services . 
Terms include a royalty arrangement 
The package helps carriers solve pricing problems , such as how to react to discounts offered by competitors 
When the company last considered adding the equipment two years ago , it estimated the cost at $ 21 million to $ 22 million 
When the company last considered adding the equipment two years ago , it estimated the cost at $ 21 million to $ 22 million 
When the company last considered adding the equipment two years ago , it estimated the cost at $ 21 million to $ 22 million , but a task force will have to prepare a detailed plan 
When the company last considered adding the equipment two years ago , it estimated the cost at $ 21 million to $ 22 million , but a task force will have to prepare a detailed plan before the company can predict the current cost . 
Sir Richard Butler , 60-year-old chairman of Agricola -LRB- U.K . -RRB- Ltd. , was named chairman of County NatWest Investment Management Ltd. , the investment management subsidiary of County NatWest Ltd. , the investment banking arm of this British bank . 
The quake knocked The Well out for six hours 
The quake knocked The Well out for six hours , but when it came back up , it teemed with emotional first-hand reports 
The time is Pacific Daylight Time 
I was in the avenues , on the third floor of an old building 
Got back to Bolinas 
I felt the temblor begin and glanced at the table next to mine , smiled that guilty smile 
This time , it just got stronger 
This time , it just got stronger 
This time , it just got stronger and then the building started shaking violently up and down 
I was in the Berkeley Main library 
Only a few books fell in the reading room . 
This building shook like hell 
The cats are fine 
I was driving my truck , stopped at a red light at the corner of Shattuck and Alcatraz at the Oakland-Berkeley border 
It flopped all around , real dramatic ! 
I could n't decide if I should come home to Marin 
There was a horrible smell of gas 
There was a horrible smell of gas as I passed the Chevron refinery 
There was a horrible smell of gas as I passed the Chevron refinery before crossing the Richmond-San Rafael Bridge . 
My back is still in knots 
Building on the corner severely damaged 
The quivers move through my house every few minutes at unpredictable intervals 
I was in Stinson Beach 
At first , we were unfazed . 
Then as things got rougher , we ran for the door 
Everyone looked calm 
Everyone looked calm , but there was this surreal low level of confusion 
Power is back on 
A friend of mine was in an underground computer center in downtown SF 
Today should be interesting 
I got home , let the dogs into the house and noticed some sounds above my head 
I got home , let the dogs into the house and noticed some sounds above my head , as if someone were walking on the roof , or upstairs . 
Then I noticed the car was bouncing up and down 
Cupboard doors were flying , the trash can in the kitchen walked a few feet , the dogs came running 
When I realized it was over , I went and stood out in front of the house 
When I realized it was over , I went and stood out in front of the house , waiting and praying for Merrill to come home , shivering 
When I realized it was over , I went and stood out in front of the house , waiting and praying for Merrill to come home , shivering as if it were 20 below zero 
When I saw the pictures of 880 and the Bay Bridge , I began to cry 
I was just sitting down to meet with some new therapy clients , a couple 
It 's a flimsy structure , built up on supports 
The three of us stopped breathing for a moment 
The three of us stopped breathing for a moment 
The three of us stopped breathing for a moment , and then when it kept on coming we lunged for the doorway 
Judy and I were in our back yard 
We ran into the house to get Mame 
We ran into the house to get Mame , but the next tremor threw me in the air and bounced me 
We are all fine here 
Not one thing in the house is where it is supposed to be 
While I was standing on the lawn with Mame , waiting for another tremor , I noticed that all the earthworms were emerging from the ground and slithering across the lawn 
Next to Chez Panisse a homeless couple , bundled into a blue sleeping bag , sat up , said , `` Good morning 
Next to Chez Panisse a homeless couple , bundled into a blue sleeping bag , sat up , said , `` Good morning 
With strong prices in the company 's two major areas -- building products as well as pulp and paper -- analysts had expected a roaring quarter . 
One reason : efforts to protect the spotted owl led to restrictions on logging in the Pacific Northwest , constricting supply and forcing prices up . 
Transportation Secretary Samuel Skinner , in a letter to the committee , warned that he would urge President Bush to veto the legislation 
Some of the bill 's supporters had taken heart from the fact that the letter was n't signed by Mr. Skinner 
The stepped-up administration warnings annoyed some lawmakers , especially senior Republicans who supported the bill 
`` We backed this bill 
`` We backed this bill because we thought it would help Skinner 
A few weeks ago , Mr. Skinner testified before Congress that it would be `` cleaner , more efficient 
A few weeks ago , Mr. Skinner testified before Congress that it would be `` cleaner , more efficient '' if he had authority to block buy-outs in advance . 
Under the committee bill , the Transportation secretary would have 30 days , and an additional 20 days 
The secretary would be required to block an acquisition 
The secretary would be required to block an acquisition if he concluded that it would so weaken an airline financially that it would hurt safety or reduce the carrier 's ability to compete 
The secretary would be required to block an acquisition 
Although the legislation would apply to any acquisition of a major airline , it is aimed at transactions financed by large amounts of debt 
`` I do n't believe in the airline business you can be totally laissez-faire because of the high degree of public interest '' at stake . `` It became apparent in hearings that there ought to be regulation of leveraged buy-outs of some sort , '' Rep. James Oberstar -LRB- D. , Minn. -RRB- , chairman of the House Aviation Subcommittee , said during the panel 's deliberations . 
But Mr. Skinner disagreed , calling the legislation `` a retreat from the policy of deregulaton of the airline industry . '' 
Currently , the Transportation Department does n't have the authority to block a takeover in advance . 
However , if the secretary concludes that a transaction has made a carrier unfit to operate , the department may revoke its certificate 
Such authority is more than adequate , say opponents of the legislation . 
The panel rejected a proposal pushed by AMR Corp. , the parent of American Airlines , to allow the Transportation secretary to block corporate raiders from waging proxy fights to oust boards that oppose a leveraged buy-out . 
London shares rallied to post strong gains 
Tokyo stocks , which rebounded strongly Tuesday , extended their gains yesterday 
The mood changed 
The mood changed after dealers reappraised the direct impact of the disaster on shares 
Dealers said the market still has n't shaken off its nervousness after its bumpy ride of the past several sessions , caused by interest-rate increases last week and Wall Street 's 6.9 % plunge Friday . 
Among composite insurers , General Accident rose 10 pence to # 10.03 -LRB- $ 15.80 -RRB- a share , Guardian Royal climbed 5 to 217 pence , Sun Alliance rose 3 to 290 
Life insurers fared similarly , with Legal & General advancing 3 to 344 
Pearl Group rose 5 to 628 
Most banking issues retreated after a sector downgrade by Warburg Securities 
The recent stock market drop has shaken confidence in the plan 
Merchant banker Morgan Grenfell climbed 14 to 406 on renewed takeover speculation . 
Jaguar advanced 19 to 673 
On Wednesday , shares were pushed up by index-related buying on the part of investment trusts as well as small orders from individuals and corporations , traders said . 
Institutions , meanwhile , stepped back to the sidelines 
Some traders said the popularity of issues that gained yesterday wo n't last long 
Traders said these issues need large-volume buying to push up their prices 
Traders said these issues need large-volume buying to push up their prices , so substantial gains are n't likely 
Kirin Brewery was up 100 at 2,000 
Most of those markets had rebounded the day before from Monday 's slide . 
Trading had been impeded by a major computer failure that took place 
The industry had shown signs of recovery this summer 
The industry had shown signs of recovery this summer , after the central bank began to relax its clamp on credit , allowing interest rates to drop a bit 
Sales of new homes rose and inventories of houses , which had been climbing , dropped . 
Another reason for the weakness , he said , may be that mortgage rates have hit a plateau 
In August , rates on 30-year fixed-rate mortgages started creeping up a bit 
The number of building permits issued for future construction dropped 2.4 % to a 1,296,000 annual rate 
All the numbers were adjusted for normal seasonal variations in building activity . 
The housing starts numbers , however , are one of the least precise of the government 's economic indicators and are often revised significantly 
Shearson Lehman Hutton Holdings Inc. posted a sharp third-quarter turnaround from a year earlier 
Commission revenue was $ 522 million , up 49 % . 
But industrywide trading activity slowed in September 
But industrywide trading activity slowed in September as institutional investors turned cautious 
Two major drug companies posted strong third-quarter earnings , in line with profits already reported by industry leaders and analysts ' expectations . 
Schering-Plough Corp. , based in Madison , N.J. , reported a 21 % rise in earnings 
American Home Products said net income benefited from a `` lower effective tax rate , '' reflecting a reduction of foreign tax rates , and additional operations in Puerto Rico . 
Sales by the specialty chemicals and materials science segments were flat 
In the health-care segment , pharmaceutical sales increased 4 % 
These actions did n't affect results 
World-wide consumer product sales declined 12 % , primarily because of the European cosmetics sale . 
Charleston is historic and aristocratic , as your reporter said , but not haughty , as he suggested . 
Colorado National is a unit of Colorado National Bankshares 
Sebastian Guzman Cabrera took over the oil workers union , Mexico 's most powerful labor organization , only last January . 
In recent contract negotiations with Pemex management , Mr. Guzman Cabrera accepted major concessions that greatly curtail the union 's role in subcontracting , long a source of millions of dollars in illicit earnings . 
Since world oil prices collapsed in 1982 , the government has siphoned Pemex 's coffers to make payments on Mexico 's $ 97 billion foreign debt 
While the government drains Pemex from above , the union has drained it from below 
`` I 'm the secretary-general 
Beginning as a laborer in a refinery , Mr. Guzman Cabrera put in more than 40 years at Pemex 
Though he also long benefited from the system built by La Quina , Mr. Guzman Cabrera says union perks had simply gotten out of hand 
Beginning as a laborer in a refinery , Mr. Guzman Cabrera put in more than 40 years at Pemex before being pushed into retirement by La Quina after a dispute two years ago . 
Though he also long benefited from the system built by La Quina , Mr. Guzman Cabrera says union perks had simply gotten out of hand . 
Thus , in recent contract negotiations , Mr. Guzman Cabrera gave up the union 's right to assign 40 % of all of Pemex 's outside contracts -- an enormous source of kickbacks . 
Thus , in recent contract negotiations , Mr. Guzman Cabrera gave up the union 's right to assign 40 % of all of Pemex 's outside contracts -- an enormous source of kickbacks . The union also ceded the 2 % commission it had received on all Pemex maintenance contracts . 
About 9,800 technical workers , notably chemists and lawyers , were switched to non-union status . 
Mr. Guzman Cabrera says the union 's sacrifices will be offset by a wage and benefit package that amounts to a 22 % increase in compensation . 
Pemex officials would n't say how much money the new contract would save the company 
But Pemex managers are the ones most thrilled by the contract . 
Grupo Desc , a big conglomerate , has long depended on Pemex petrochemicals to produce plastic packing material . 
But when the Pemex plant shut down for an annual overhaul , it would never give notice to its customers 
In May , the government unveiled new foreign investment regulations that create special trusts allowing foreigners , long limited to a 40 % stake in secondary petrochemical companies , to own up to 100 % . 
But Pemex managers are the ones most thrilled by the contract . Taming the union complements previous moves by the government to attract private investment in petrochemicals , which Mexico has been forced to import in large quantities in recent years . Pemex 's customers also are pleased with the company 's new spirit . 
But Pemex 's courtship with private companies , and especially foreign ones , is controversial in a country where oil has been a symbol of national sovereignty 
Mr. Guzman Cabrera and government officials insist that foreigners will be limited to investing in secondary petroleum products . 
`` If we do not integrate into this new world of interdependence , sooner or later we 're going to become victims of our own isolation 
MORE EXECUTIVES and their spouses are seeking counseling 
Some employers initiate referrals 
One East Coast manufacturing executive , faced with a job transfer his wife resented , found that counseling helped them both come to grips with the move . 
And the vice president of a large Midwestern company realized that an abrasive temperament threatened his career 
MORE EXECUTIVES and their spouses are seeking counseling as work and family pressures mount . 
`` No matter how competent and smart you both are , the relationship almost certainly will erode 
HERE 'S ONE more explanation for why Japan is a tough industrial competitor : Two of three Japanese employees submit suggestions to save money , increase efficiency and boost morale 
HERE 'S ONE more explanation for why Japan is a tough industrial competitor : Two of three Japanese employees submit suggestions to save money , increase efficiency and boost morale , while only 8 % of American workers do . 
And the Japanese make far more suggestions -- 2,472 per 100 eligible employees vs. only 13 per 100 employees in the HERE 'S ONE more explanation for why Japan is a tough industrial competitor : Two of three Japanese employees submit suggestions to save money , increase efficiency and boost morale , while only 8 % of American workers do . 
Data for 1987 from the National Association of Suggestion Systems and the Japan Human Relations Association also indicate that Japanese employers adopt four of five suggestions 
That helps explain why American employers grant an average award of $ 604.72 per suggestion 
That helps explain why American employers grant an average award of $ 604.72 per suggestion , while Japan 's payment is $ 3.23 . 
Control Data , for one , plays down its employee suggestion program 
`` If it causes management to take their eye off the ball , inventory shrinkage is going to be affected 
Pilferage climbed dramatically 
A separate study of the extent of employee misconduct linked general job satisfaction to property loss . 
Most important , experts say , is to show that a company 's ethical tone is set at the top . 
Consultant John Keller of Southlake , Texas , urges that top management adopt a `` tough hands-on approach '' with very tight controls and monitoring . 
Nearly seven of 10 investors think companies reinvest `` too little '' of their profits in the business . 
Nearly seven of 10 investors think companies reinvest `` too little '' of their profits in the business . And half the employees surveyed think companies dole out too little to them . 
The company estimated that the transaction would enhance its book value , which stood at $ 28.55 a share on Sept. 30 , by more than $ 100 million , or about $ 4 a share . 
The company also said the transaction would bolster after-tax earnings by $ 3.25 a share 
UAL fell $ 6.25 a share to $ 191.75 on volume of 2.3 million shares in composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange 
UAL management was to pay $ 15 million for 10 % 
The buy-out fell through 
Although British Air is waiting to see what the buy-out group comes up with , Mr. Stevens said a revised transaction with less debt leverage is likely to be more attractive to banks 
He said the original proposal is dead 
He added the original offer was `` a pretty full price 
`` If the -LCB- new -RCB- deal had us putting up less money but still having 15 % , that would be a point in our favor 
`` If the -LCB- new -RCB- deal had us putting up less money 
Roughly one-third of its stock is believed held by takeover stock traders , who could vote to oust the board 
In the event that the buy-out group stalls in reviving its bid , the UAL board could remain under some pressure to seek another transaction , even without any legal obligation to do so . 
The dissident pilots oppose the plan 
`` Although it probably has reduced the level of expenditures for some purchasers , utilization management -- like most other cost containment strategies -- does n't appear to have altered the long-term rate of increase in health-care costs 
While utilization management frequently reduces hospitalization costs , these savings are often offset by increases in outpatient services and higher administrative costs , according to the report by a panel of health-care experts 
The report said that utilization management should have more of an impact 
The report said that utilization management should have more of an impact as federal research on the effectiveness of medical treatments helps lead to medical practice guidelines . 
Howard Bailit , a panel member and a vice president of Aetna Life & Casualty , said that utilization management will also do a better job of containing costs 
`` There 's pretty good evidence that utilization management has reduced inappropriate hospitalization , '' he said . 
David Rahill of A. Foster Higgins & Co. said that clients of his consulting firm report that utilization management reduces their hospital care bills by about 5 % 
Jerome Grossman , chairman of the panel , agrees that administrative costs of utilization management programs can be high . 
Dr. Grossman , who also is president of New England Medical Center Hospitals in Boston , noted that the hospitals he runs deal with more than 100 utilization management firms 
The French state-controlled auto group and the Dutch truck maker plan to incorporate the new trucks into their product lines 
Renault and DAF are expected to invest a total of about three billion French francs -LRB- $ 157.8 million -RRB- in the venture , including FFr 1 billion for design and development costs . 
Mr. Gras said the joint venture represents considerable savings for both Renault and DAF 
Renault officials said the potential European market for light trucks in the 2.5-ton to 4.2-ton range is between 700,000 and 800,000 vehicles annually 
Both Renault and DAF will have world-wide marketing rights for the new range of vans and light trucks . 
Under a separate arrangement , British Aerospace PLC 's Rover Group PLC subsidiary will also be able to offer the vehicles through its dealers in the 
It has an unusual kind of independence from elected officials 
It has an unusual kind of independence from elected officials and still has authority over one of the most powerful of government 's instruments -- the control of the money supply . 
As former Fed Chairman William McChesney Martin used to say , they would have to take the punch bowl away 
First , its position in the government is anomalous . Second , the responsibilities of the Federal Reserve as guardian of the currency , which means as guardian of the stability of the price level , sometimes lead it to take measures that are unpopular . 
The Fed is easily assigned the blame for unpleasantness , like high interest rates or slow economic growth 
This leads to proposals for `` reform '' of the Fed , which have the common feature of making the Fed more responsive to the administration , to the Congress and to public opinion -- without , however , any assumption of additional responsibility by the politicians . 
But these proposals do not rest on a view of what the Fed 's problem is 
But these proposals do not rest on a view of what the Fed 's problem is or , if they do , they rest on an incorrect view 
The problem is not that the Fed is too unresponsive to the public interest . 
On average , something that cost $ 100 30 years ago now costs $ 425 . 
At least , it would not have happened without the support of monetary policy that provided for a 10-fold increase in the money supply during the same period . 
Despite all the formal provisions for its independence , the Fed seems constantly to feel that if it uses its independence too freely it will lose it 
The common proposals for reforming the Fed would only make the situation worse 
The secretary is the world 's biggest borrower of money . 
Could he plausibly interpret it as encouragement for the Fed to give primary emphasis to stabilizing the price level ? 
The Fed 's case for its own independence would be a little stronger 
The Fed exercises a power given to it by Congress and the president . 
To leave this decision to an `` independent '' agency is not only undemocratic . 
It also prevents the conduct of a policy that has a long-term rationale 
Legislation to this effect has been introduced in Congress in this session by Rep. Stephen Neal -LRB- D. , N.C . -RRB- . 
Congress would be required to make a hard decision 
People will say that the nation and the government have other objectives , in addition to stabilizing the price level , which is true . 
The government has other agencies and instruments for pursuing these other objectives . 
But it has only the Fed to pursue price-level stability . 
The two objectives most commonly thought to be legitimate competitors for the attention of the Fed are high employment and rapid real growth . 
But the main lesson of economic policy in the past 30 years is that if the Fed compromises with the price-stability objective in the pursuit of these other goals , the result is not high employment and rapid growth but is inflation 
Republic New York Corp. joined the list of banks boosting reserves for losses on loans to less-developed countries , setting out a $ 200 million provision 
Abortion-rights advocates won last week 's battles 
Strict new regulations seem certain to pass the state House in Pennsylvania next week 
Legislation to require the consent of parents 
The short-term shift in the political climate surrounding abortion reflects two factors that are likely to govern the debate in the next several months : the reawakening of the abortion-rights movement as a potent force after years of lassitude , and the ability of each side to counter the other 's advance in one arena with a victory of its own elsewhere . 
The action in Pennsylvania , for example , will follow last week 's collapse of a special session of the Florida legislature to enact restrictions on abortions in that state , and the vote here in Washington by the House to permit federally paid abortions for poor women who are victims of rape or incest . 
But President Bush is expected to veto the congressional legislation 
`` It 's great to feel good for once in 15 years , '' says Harrison Hickman , a consultant to abortion-rights advocates , reflecting the relief of his compatriots after last week 's victories , the first major events since the Supreme Court , in its July 3 Webster decision , permitted the states to enact restrictions on abortions . 
`` But how many more times we 're going to feel good in the next 15 is another question . '' 
`` The pro-choice movement has shown -- finally -- that it can mobilize , '' says Glen Halva-Neubauer , a Furman University political scientist who specializes in how state legislators handle the abortion question . 
`` But it still has n't shown that it can win in a state like Pennsylvania or Missouri , where abortion has been clearly an electoral issue 
The foes of abortion hold the strong whip hand in Pennsylvania , where abortion-rights activists are so much on the defensive that their strategy is less to fight the proposed legislation than it is to stress how the state legislature does n't reflect the viewpoints of the state 's citizens . 
The Freind legislation -- the state 's House Judiciary Committee approved it in Harrisburg this week 
The Freind legislation -- the state 's House Judiciary Committee approved it in Harrisburg this week and the full Pennsylvania House is expected to take up the bill next Tuesday -- includes a provision to ban abortions after 24 weeks of pregnancy 
The Freind legislation -- the state 's House Judiciary Committee approved it in Harrisburg this week and the full Pennsylvania House is expected to take up the bill next Tuesday -- includes a provision to ban abortions after 24 weeks of pregnancy , except to avert the death of the mother . 
The Freind legislation -- the state 's House Judiciary Committee approved it in Harrisburg this week and the full Pennsylvania House is expected to take up the bill next Tuesday -- includes a provision to ban abortions after 24 weeks of pregnancy , except to avert the death of the mother . 
`` Regardless of whether one supports or opposes the right to an abortion , '' Mr. Freind argues , `` it is virtually impossible for any rational human being to disagree with the concept that a woman has the right to have all of the appropriate materials and advice made available to her 
Susan Rogin , a consultant to abortion-rights activists in the state , takes comfort from the fact that the state 's House abortion opponents `` have n't been able to muster the votes to overturn a veto on abortion in 16 years . '' 
But proponents believe they may be able to shake enough votes loose to override the veto 
In Illinois , lawmakers will vote before next spring on legislation requiring physicians to perform tests on fetuses at 20 weeks to determine their gestational age , weight and lung maturity along with a provision requiring that , if fetuses survive an abortion , a second doctor must be on hand to help it survive 
The legislation failed by one vote to clear the House Rules Committee Tuesday 
The legislation failed by one vote to clear the House Rules Committee Tuesday 
Pamela Sutherland , executive director of the Illinois Planned Parenthood Council , says she and her allies are `` cautiously optimistic '' they can defeat it 
In Illinois , lawmakers will vote before next spring on legislation requiring physicians to perform tests on fetuses at 20 weeks to determine their gestational age , weight and lung maturity along with a provision requiring that , if fetuses survive an abortion , a second doctor must be on hand to help it survive . 
`` Next year is an election year 
This legislative activity comes 
`` Those who are on the other side can hardly oppose alternative funding 
When I was just a child And confronted by my fears , The things that I thought would get me Had fangs and pointed ears 
The company said that it is selling two million shares 
Final approval came on a simple voice vote in the Senate 
An estimated $ 33 million was added for university and science grants , including $ 1.5 million for Smith College . 
More than $ 1.8 million is allocated for pensions and expenses for former presidents 
Investigation and taxpayer service accounts would grow to $ 1.6 billion 
Within the IRS , nearly $ 1.95 billion is provided for processing tax returns , a 12 % increase over fiscal 1989 and double what the government was spending five years ago . 
Investigation and taxpayer service accounts would grow to $ 1.6 billion , and Congress specifically added $ 7.4 million for stepped up criminal investigations of money laundering related to drug traffic . 
The large increase in Customs Service air-interdiction funds is also intended to counter smuggling 
Repeal is considered likely now 
A House-Senate conference reached agreement Oct. 5 on virtually all major provisions of the bill 
The program 's nonprofit sponsors received $ 900,000 in fiscal 1989 through an Extension Service grant 
The 79-year-old Mississippian takes a more orthodox , entrenched view of agriculture policy than those in the movement to reduce chemical use 
If anything , the gyrations in world stock markets -- and in B.A.T 's share price -- since last Friday 's sharp Wall Street sell-off have increased the likelihood of shareholder approval for the restructuring 
B.A.T has been London 's best-performing blue chip over the past six months , up 40 % against a 4 % rise in the Financial Times 100-Share Index . 
B.A.T rose five pence -LRB- eight cents -RRB- to 756 pence -LRB- $ 11.91 -RRB- in London yesterday 
`` I think the restructuring will get the required support , '' said Michael Pacitti , an analyst at London stockbroker UBS Phillips & Drew . 
Company officials , holders and analysts who previously expected the disposals to be substantially complete by the end of next year 's first half now say the market gyrations could delay the actions well into the second half 
We do n't have an absolute deadline 
We do n't have an absolute deadline and if market conditions are truly awful we might decide it is not the right time , '' to take particular steps 
Even if B.A.T receives approval for the restructuring , the company will remain in play 
Even if B.A.T receives approval for the restructuring , the company will remain in play 
The new B.A.T will be a smaller tobacco and financial-services hybrid whose price-earnings ratio may more closely reflect the lower-growth tobacco business than the higher-multiple financial-services business , these holders believe . 
`` The last few days will surely slow down the pace of events , '' says Scottish Amicable 's Mr. Gilchrist . 
B.A.T is n't predicting a postponement 
B.A.T is n't predicting a postponement because the units `` are quality businesses 
B.A.T is n't predicting a postponement because the units `` are quality businesses and we are encouraged by the breadth of inquiries , '' said Mr. Prideaux . 
But the delay could happen 
Though Sir James has said he intends to mount a new bid for B.A.T once approval from U.S. insurance regulators is received , jitters over prospects for junk-bond financing and U.S. leverage buy-outs are making investors more skeptical about Sir James 's prospects 
Though Sir James has said he intends to mount a new bid for B.A.T 
Though Sir James has said he intends to mount a new bid for B.A.T once approval from U.S. insurance regulators is received , jitters over prospects for junk-bond financing and U.S. leverage buy-outs are making investors more skeptical about Sir James 's prospects . 
Though Sir James has said he intends to mount a new bid for B.A.T once approval from U.S. insurance regulators is received , jitters over prospects for junk-bond financing and U.S. leverage buy-outs are making investors more skeptical about Sir James 's prospects . Market uncertainty also clouds the outlook for B.A.T 's attracting a premium price for its U.S. retailing properties . 
Bridge and highway collapses will disrupt truck and auto transportation in the San Francisco Bay area for months to come . 
But rail , air and ocean-shipping links to the area escaped Tuesday 's earthquake with only minor damage 
Air traffic at San Francisco International Airport was running about 50 % of normal yesterday afternoon 
Air traffic at San Francisco International Airport was running about 50 % of normal yesterday afternoon , but airport officals said they expect a return to full operations by Saturday . 
`` Right now most of the roads into the Bay area are closed 
This -LCB- Wednesday -RCB- morning the San Mateo bridge was open 
A UPS spokesman said that although none of the company 's terminals , trucks or airplanes were damaged in the quake , road shutdowns and power failures have impeded its pickup and delivery of packages 
A UPS spokesman said that although none of the company 's terminals , trucks or airplanes were damaged in the quake , road shutdowns and power failures have impeded its pickup and delivery of packages . 
A UPS spokesman said that although none of the company 's terminals , trucks or airplanes were damaged in the quake , road shutdowns and power failures have impeded its pickup and delivery of packages . 
A UPS spokesman said that although none of the company 's terminals , trucks or airplanes were damaged in the quake , road shutdowns and power failures have impeded its pickup and delivery of packages . The spokesman noted four-hour to five-hour traffic delays on the San Mateo bridge , for example . In addition , power failures prevented its package-sorting facilities from operating , causing delays . 
Santa Fe stopped freight trains Tuesday night 
Southern Pacific Transportation Co. , the hardest hit of the three railroads in the Bay area , said service on its north-south coastline , which is used by an Amtrak train between Los Angeles and Seattle , was suspended temporarily because of kinked rails near the epicenter of the quake . 
The Bay Area Rapid Transit `` withstood the earthquake perfectly , '' said Mr. Engelken , adding that the rail system was running a full fleet of 45 trains during the day to provide an alternative for highway travelers . 
Although air-traffic delays in San Francisco were significant yesterday , they did n't appear to spread to other airports 
The earthquake shattered windows at San Francisco International 's air-traffic control tower and rained pieces of the ceiling down on controllers , three of whom suffered minor injuries . 
Terminals at San Francisco International also were damaged 
Runways at San Francisco were n't damaged 
Runways at San Francisco were n't damaged , but traffic was being limited yesterday to 27 arrivals and 27 departures an hour -- down from 33 to 45 an hour normally 
While the airport was closed , flights were diverted to airports in Sacramento and Stockton , Calif. ; Reno and Las Vegas , Nev. ; and Los Angeles 
United Airlines , the largest carrier at San Francisco , was operating only 50 % of its scheduled service in and out of the area because of damage to its terminal 
A United spokesman said 14 of its 21 gates were unusable , mainly because of water damage caused 
The United spokesman said none of its people were injured at the airport 
The United spokesman said none of its people were injured at the airport ; in fact , as the airport was being evacuated Tuesday night , two babies were born 
Yesterday , the United ticket counter was active , with people trying to get flights out 
Yesterday , the United ticket counter was active , with people trying to get flights out 
A Japan Air Lines spokesman said its flights into and out of San Francisco were n't affected 
Whitbread & Co. put its spirits division up for sale , triggering a scramble among global groups for the British company 's brands . 
Among the brands for sale are Beefeater gin , the No. 2 imported gin in the U.S. , and Laphroaig single-malt whiskey . 
That purchase represented an attempt by Whitbread , a venerable British brewer , to become a major player in the global liquor business . 
The Whitbread spirits auction `` is an extremely interesting development 
Guinness , which owns several leading whiskey brands plus Gordon 's gin , the world 's No. 1 gin , is considered less likely to bid for the Whitbread spirits . Among possible buyers , Grand Metropolitan PLC might find Beefeater a useful addition to its portfolio . 
Seagram 's gin is the world 's No. 2 gin brand 
Allied-Lyons , while powerful in whiskey , does n't own any major white-spirit brands 
Two other global liquor giants , Canada 's Seagram Co. and Britain 's Allied-Lyons PLC , also are possible buyers . 
In New York , a spokesman for American Brands would n't comment . 
The company , which is retaining most of its wine and all of its soft-drink interests , did n't break out results for the businesses it plans to sell . 
British brewers currently own thousands of pubs 
The company , which last month paid # 50.7 million for regional British brewer Boddington Group PLC , has about 13 % of the British beer market . 
Whitbread now intends to bolster its brewing interests , in an effort to grab a share of sales to free houses . 
In addition , Whitbread intends to focus on its newer hotel , liquor store and restaurant businesses in Europe and North America . 
NEWHALL LAND & FARMING Co. , Valencia , Calif. , announced a 2-for-1 split in the real estate limited partnership 's units and increased its regular quarterly cash distribution 33 % , to 40 cents a unit . 
Digital Equipment Corp. is planning a big coming-out party on Tuesday for its first line of mainframe computers . 
Digital , based in Maynard , Mass. , hopes to stage a repeat performance in mainframes 
Robert M. Glorioso , Digital 's vice president for high performance systems , says Digital 's mainframe is designed not as a central computer around which everything revolves , but as part of a decentralized network weaving together hundreds of workstations , personal computers , printers and other devices . 
The new 3090s due next week will boost performance by only about 8 % to 10 % . The computer giant 's current mainframe line , which has sold well and has huge profit margins , is starting to show its age . 
The heightened competition will hit IBM at a difficult time . 
`` We 're not going to walk in and replace a company 's corporate accounting system 
Stanley Rose , a vice president , technological and strategic planning at Bankers Trust , says that despite Digital 's low prices , `` we are n't about to unplug our IBM mainframes for a DEC machine . The software conversion costs would dwarf any savings . '' 
The software conversion costs would dwarf any savings . '' 
As that system grows , larger computers may be needed 
`` In the past , customers had to go to IBM 
Although Digital will announce a full family of mainframes next week , it is n't expected to begin shipping in volume until next year 
Amdahl Corp. , backed by Japan 's Fujitsu Ltd. , has a growing share of the market with its low-priced , IBM-compatible machines . 
The frenetic stock and bond markets cooled off 
Stocks rose slightly 
Helped by futures-related program buying , the Dow Jones Industrial Average gained 4.92 points to close at 2643.65 . 
But the Dow Jones Transportation Average fell for the seventh-consecutive session 
Bond prices rallied early yesterday morning 
Bond prices rallied early yesterday morning as traders scrambled to buy Treasury issues on fears that the Northern California earthquake might lead to a stock-market debacle . 
But when stocks held steady , Treasury bonds later retreated 
Bond prices rallied early yesterday morning as traders scrambled to buy Treasury issues on fears that the Northern California earthquake might lead to a stock-market debacle . 
Speculation that the Federal Reserve will lower interest rates in coming weeks helped push the dollar down 
Speculation that the Federal Reserve will lower interest rates in coming weeks helped push the dollar down while boosting stocks , traders said . 
But many investors remain wary about stocks 
`` I think the problems in the junk-bond area are just beginning 
In a bull market , credit does not matter , '' Mr. DeVoe added . 
`` But when it does matter , then it 's the only thing that matters 
But many investors remain wary about stocks , partly because they expect continued turbulence in the junk-bond market that would make it more difficult to finance corporate takeovers . 
Oil prices initially rose on fears that the massive earthquake in Northern California would disrupt production . 
Oil prices initially rose on fears that the massive earthquake in Northern California would disrupt production . 
But prices later reversed course , finishing slightly lower 
But prices later reversed course , finishing slightly lower , as investors concluded that any cuts would n't be large 
AMR 's earnings decline comes 
Some analysts say the latest results only seem pale by comparison with a spectacular second half of 1988 . 
The Fort Worth , Texas , company is generally regarded as one of the best-run in the business 
The Fort Worth , Texas , company is generally regarded as one of the best-run in the business , and its difficulties are likely to be reflected industrywide 
AMR Corp. posted an 8.8 % drop in third-quarter net income and said the fourth quarter will be `` disappointing '' as well , primarily because of slimmer profit margins and increased fuel costs . 
Costs are giving them a little bit of trouble 
This bill simply says that if you want to develop property on a barrier island you have to do so without taxpayer support 
Private-property rights would be upheld 
Private-property rights would be upheld because the legislation would not ban coastal development . 
While last year 's figure was down from 13.4 % in 1987 and marked the fifth consecutive annual decline in the poverty rate , the Census Bureau said the 1988 drop was n't statistically significant 
While last year 's figure was down from 13.4 % in 1987 and marked the fifth consecutive annual decline in the poverty rate , the Census Bureau said the 1988 drop was n't statistically significant . 
The bureau 's report also showed that while some measures of the nation 's economic well-being improved modestly in 1988 , the fruits of prosperity were shared less equitably than the year before 
Summarizing data derived from a March 1989 survey of 58,000 households , William Butz , associate director of the Census Bureau , said that `` most groups either stayed the same or improved . '' 
Per capita income , a widely used measure of a nation 's economic health , hit a record in 1988 , rising 1.7 % after inflation adjustment to $ 13,120 . 
The Census Bureau counts all cash income in determining whether families are below the line 
Thanks largely to the continued growth of the U.S. economy , the poverty rate is now substantially lower than the 1983 peak of 15.3 % 
In 1988 , 31.6 % of blacks lived in poverty , compared with 10.1 % for whites and 26.8 % for Hispanics . 
If it were n't for Social Security payments , more than three times as many elderly would be below the poverty line 
If it were n't for Social Security payments , more than three times as many elderly would be below the poverty line , Mr. Butz said . 
That is the greatest share reported for any year since 1950 
-- Confirming other government data showing that wages are n't keeping pace with inflation , earnings of year-round , full-time male workers fell 1.3 % in 1988 after adjusting for higher prices , the first such drop since 1982 
-- Per capita income of blacks , though still only 60 % that of whites , rose 3.9 % in 1988 
-- Among married couples , the gap between blacks and whites narrowed sharply 
-- Among married couples , the gap between blacks and whites narrowed sharply , as income of black families shot up 6.8 % 
-- Per capita income of blacks , though still only 60 % that of whites , rose 3.9 % in 1988 , while per capita income of whites rose only 1.5 % . -- Among married couples , the gap between blacks and whites narrowed sharply , as income of black families shot up 6.8 % while income of whites did n't budge . The Census Bureau also said : -- Some 17.2 % of all money income received by families in 1988 went to the wealthiest 5 % of all families , up from 16.9 % in 1987 . That is the greatest share reported for any year since 1950 , although changing definitions over the years distort the comparison . -- The top fifth of all families got 44 % of the income , up from 41.5 % a decade earlier . The bottom fifth of all families got 4.6 % of the income , down from 5.2 % a decade earlier . -- Confirming other government data showing that wages are n't keeping pace with inflation , earnings of year-round , full-time male workers fell 1.3 % in 1988 after adjusting for higher prices , the first such drop since 1982 . Earnings of female workers were unchanged . -- Women working full-time earned 66 cents for every dollar earned by men , a penny more than in 1987 and seven cents more than in 1978 . -- Median household income -- which includes both those living in families and those who are n't -- rose 0.3 % last year to $ 27,225 after inflation . It rose sharply in the Northeast and Midwest and fell slightly in the South and West . Median family income was $ 32,191 , down 0.2 % . 
Fueling a controversy that has been simmering for years , the Census Bureau also said its figures would look far rosier 
The bureau said some 3.5 million fewer people would have fallen below the poverty line in 1988 -- and the poverty rate would have been 10.5 % instead of 13.1 % -- under the alternative calculation 
Seven years late in the launching , $ 1 billion over budget and a target of anti-nuclear protestors , Galileo has long been a symbol of trouble for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration . 
But yesterday , as Atlantis rumbled into a patch of clear sky above Florida with storm clouds closing in on it , NASA sought to turn Galileo into a symbol of triumph 
If all goes well , it will parachute a probe into the dense Jovian atmosphere in July 1995 
Investigating Jupiter in detail may provide clues to what astronomer Tobias Owen calls the `` cosmic paradox '' of life : Jupiter and other bodies in the outer solar system are rich in elements such as hydrogen that are essential for life on Earth 
Investigating Jupiter in detail may provide clues to what astronomer Tobias Owen calls the `` cosmic paradox '' of life : Jupiter and other bodies in the outer solar system are rich in elements such as hydrogen that are essential for life on Earth , but these planets are lifeless 
The Galileo project started in 1977 
Having argued that Galileo 's plutonium power source could have released lethal doses of radiation 
Galileo will skim past Earth in 1990 and 1992 , collecting energy from the planet 's gravitational field to gain momentum for its trip to Jupiter . 
They said they dropped plans to infiltrate the Kennedy Space Center 
They said they dropped plans to infiltrate the Kennedy Space Center after NASA beefed up its security . 
The successful launch continues a remarkable recovery in the U.S. space-science program . 
NASA wo n't attempt a rescue 
Private relief agencies , such as the Salvation Army and Red Cross , mobilized almost instantly to help people 
Lawyers for shareholders , Bally and Mr. Trump all declined to talk publicly about the proposed settlement , citing a request by a federal court magistrate not to reveal details of the agreement 
Lawyers for shareholders , Bally and Mr. Trump all declined to talk publicly about the proposed settlement , citing a request by a federal court magistrate not to reveal details of the agreement until it is completed . 
The amount Bally and Mr. Trump will pay to settle the class-action suit pales in comparison to the $ 45 million Walt Disney Co. and Saul Steinberg 's Reliance Group Holdings Inc. agreed to pay to settle a similar suit in July . 
But lawyers said Mr. Steinberg probably faced much more potential liability 
But lawyers said Mr. Steinberg probably faced much more potential liability because , when he sued Disney during his takeover battle , he filed on behalf of all shareholders 
When Disney offered to pay Mr. Steinberg a premium for his shares , the New York investor did n't demand the company also pay a premium to other shareholders 
When Disney offered to pay Mr. Steinberg a premium for his shares 
When Mr. Trump sued Bally , he sued only on behalf of himself 
But lawyers said Mr. Steinberg probably faced much more potential liability because , when he sued Disney during his takeover battle , he filed on behalf of all shareholders . When Disney offered to pay Mr. Steinberg a premium for his shares , the New York investor did n't demand the company also pay a premium to other shareholders . When Mr. Trump sued Bally , he sued only on behalf of himself . 
Mr. Trump and Bally also appeared to have some leverage in the case 
The central charge against Judge Hastings is that he conspired with a Washington lawyer to obtain a $ 150,000 bribe from defendants in a criminal case before the judge , in return for leniency . 
The Senate 's public gallery was packed with Judge Hastings ' supporters , who erupted into applause 
Judge Hastings , who was acquitted of similar charges by a federal jury in 1983 , claims he is being victimized 
Judge Hastings , who was acquitted of similar charges by a federal jury in 1983 , claims he is being victimized and that the impeachment proceedings against him constitute double jeopardy . 
If the judge is impeached , as is thought likely , he will be removed from office immediately 
If the judge is impeached , as is thought likely , he will be removed from office immediately . 
Travelers and other insurers have maintained that cleanup costs are n't damages 
Travelers and other insurers have maintained that cleanup costs are n't damages and thus are n't covered under commercial policies . 
They also have argued that government proceedings notifying a company of potential responsibility do n't fit the legal definition of a lawsuit 
Avondale asked Travelers to defend it in the state proceeding 
The appeals court upheld a district judge 's ruling that the insurer had to defend the company in such proceedings . 
`` This decision will have a very considerable impact 
William Greaney , an attorney for the Chemical Manufacturers Association , said that while other appeals courts have ruled differently on whether cleanup costs are damages , the influence of the appeals court in New York `` will make insurers sit up and listen 
During the 15-month survey , 43 % of all legal-services programs said that at some period they were unable to accept new clients 
Before joining Apple in 1986 , Mr. Karalis served as general counsel at Sperry Corp 
After failing to find a buyer for the Sears Tower in Chicago , Sears , Roebuck & Co. is negotiating with Boston pension fund adviser Aldrich , Eastman & Waltch Inc. to refinance the property for close to $ 850 million , according to people close to the negotiations 
At the end of the term of the convertible loan , Sears could still own half the building 
The new manager will face the daunting task of leasing 1.8 million square feet in a relatively soft Chicago real estate market . 
The main advantage of a convertible mortgage is that it is not a sale 
Sears said it would put the 110-story tower on the block almost a year ago as part of its anti-takeover restructuring . 
Last summer , Sears appeared to have a deal with Canadian developer Olympia & York Developments Ltd . 
But that deal fell through in September 
Real estate industry executives said Sears ' investment banker , Goldman , Sachs & Co. , sought financing in Japan . 
But Japanese institutions shied away from bidding on the high-profile tower out of fear their purchase of the property would trigger anti-Japanese sentiment . 
However , Japanese authorities apparently were concerned that a refinancing also would attract too much publicity . 
Tandy Corp. said it signed a definitive agreement to acquire two units of Datatronic AB of Stockholm for cash . The amount was n't disclosed . 
Tandy Corp. said it signed a definitive agreement to acquire two units of Datatronic AB of Stockholm for cash . 
The provisions , in deficit-reduction bills recently passed by the House and Senate , could further cool the takeover boom that has been the driving force behind the bull market in stocks for much of the 1980s , some tax experts and investment bankers argue . 
`` It becomes a source of cash '' for the company making the LBO 
A second provision passed by the Senate and House would eliminate a rule allowing companies that post losses resulting from LBO debt to receive refunds of taxes paid over the previous three years . 
For example , if a company posted a loss of $ 100 million from buy-out interest payments , the existing rule would allow the concern to be able to receive a refund from the tax it paid from 1986 through 1989 
A second provision passed by the Senate and House would eliminate a rule allowing companies that post losses resulting from LBO debt to receive refunds of taxes paid over the previous three years . 
`` Prices for LBOs have to come down 
An investment group led by Chicago 's Pritzker family recently lowered a $ 3.35 billion bid for American Medical International , Beverly Hills , Calif. , because of the threat of the legislation . 
Moreover , one investment banker , who requested anonymity , said his firm did n't raise the ante for a target company earlier this month 
`` We would have paid more 
`` The pigs in the trough may have to give a little bit of the slop back 
`` The pigs in the trough may have to give a little bit of the slop back 
Since they have a lower interest rate , they would n't fall under the junk-bond category that would lose its deductibility 
The House version of the bill would make debt non-deductible 
The House version of the bill would make debt non-deductible if it pays five percentage points above Treasury notes , has at least a five-year maturity and does n't pay interest for at least one year out of the first five . 
The bill would then declare that the debt is equity 
The Senate bill would only deny the deduction 
Currently , even though the issuer does n't pay tax , the debt holder is taxed on the accrued interest 
Currently , even though the issuer does n't pay tax , the debt holder is taxed on the accrued interest . 
Even if Wall Street finds ways around the new rules , a Senate aide contends LBOs will become somewhat more difficult 
The government moved aggressively to open the spigots of federal aid for victims of the California earthquake 
The government moved aggressively to open the spigots of federal aid for victims of the California earthquake , but its reservoir of emergency funds must be replenished soon 
President Bush signed a disaster declaration covering seven Northern California counties . 
The Department of Housing and Urban Development prepared to make as many as 100 vacant houses available for those left homeless , the Agriculture Department was set to divert food from the school-lunch program to earthquake victims 
The Department of Housing and Urban Development prepared to make as many as 100 vacant houses available for those left homeless , the Agriculture Department was set to divert food from the school-lunch program to earthquake victims , and the Pentagon was providing everything from radio communications to blood transfusions to military police for directing traffic . 
But the pool of federal emergency-relief funds already is running low because of the heavy costs of cleaning up Hurricane Hugo 
In Hugo 's wake , Congress allocated $ 1.1 billion in relief funds 
In Hugo 's wake , Congress allocated $ 1.1 billion in relief funds , and White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said $ 273 million of that money remains and could be diverted for quick expenditures related to the earthquake . 
`` That obviously means that we wo n't have enough for all of the emergencies that are now facing us 
The federal government is n't even attempting yet to estimate how much the earthquake will cost it . 
Now , though , enormous costs for earthquake relief will pile on top of outstanding costs for hurricane relief . 
But it is n't just Washington 's relief dollars that are spread thin 
FEMA still has special disaster centers open to handle the aftermath of Hugo 
The government moved aggressively to open the spigots of federal aid for victims of the California earthquake , but its reservoir of emergency funds must be replenished soon if the aid is to continue . 
`` It just makes it a little rough 
All the precise types of federal aid that will be sent to California wo n't be determined 
All the precise types of federal aid that will be sent to California wo n't be determined until state officials make specific requests to FEMA , agency officials said . 
All the precise types of federal aid that will be sent to California wo n't be determined until state officials make specific requests to FEMA , agency officials said . And in the confusion after the earthquake , `` the information flow is a little slow coming in from the affected area , '' said Carl Suchocki , a FEMA spokesman . 
HUD officials said they will make available as many as 100 Bay area houses that are under HUD loans but now are vacant 
HUD officials said they will make available as many as 100 Bay area houses that are under HUD loans but now are vacant after the houses have been inspected to ensure they are sound . Additional housing vouchers and certificates will be made available , officials said , and some housing and community-development funds may be shifted from other programs or made available for emergency use . 
The IRS said it will waive certain tax penalties for earthquake victims unable to meet return deadlines or make payments because of the quake 's devastation . 
And the Treasury said residents of the San Francisco area will be able to cash in savings bonds 
Even before the full extent of the devastation was known , Defense Secretary Dick Cheney ordered the military services to set up an emergency command center in the Pentagon and prepare to respond to various FEMA requests for assistance 
By yesterday afternoon , Air Force transport planes began moving additional rescue and medical supplies , physicians , communications equipment and FEMA personnel to California . A military jet flew a congressional delegation and senior Bush administration officials to survey the damage . 
Two Air Force facilities near Sacramento , and Travis Air Force Base , 50 miles northeast of San Francisco , were designated to serve as medical-airlift centers . 
Two Air Force facilities near Sacramento , and Travis Air Force Base , 50 miles northeast of San Francisco , were designated to serve as medical-airlift centers . Some victims also were treated at the Letterman Army Medical Center in San Francisco and at the Naval Hospital in Oakland . 
In addition , 20 military police from the Presidio , a military base in San Francisco , are assisting with traffic control 
To help residents in Northern California rebuild , FEMA intends to set up 17 disaster assistance offices in the earthquake area in the next several days and to staff them with 400 to 500 workers from various agencies , said Robert Volland , chief of the agency 's individual assistance division . 
The account currently has $ 220 million . 
And though federal law dictates that only $ 100 million can be disbursed from that fund in any one state per disaster , administration officials expect Congress to move in to authorize spending more now in California 
To get that money , states must go through an elaborate approval process 
To get that money , states must go through an elaborate approval process , but officials expect red tape to be cut this time . 
The first phase of the program has been completed 
FARMERS REAP abundant crops . 
The harvest arrives in plenty after last year 's drought-ravaged effort : The government estimates corn output at 7.45 billion bushels , up 51 % from last fall . 
As a result , prices paid to farmers for the commodities , which are used in products as diverse as bubble gum and chicken feed , plummet 20 % to 33 % . 
Beef prices , hovering near records since the drought , could drop in earnest this winter 
Lower feed prices may help animals eat more cheaply 
IF IN VITRO fertilization works , it usually does so after only a few tries 
Costly infertility problems and procedures proliferate 
It 's estimated that one in six couples experiences infertility 
Only about five states now offer some form of insurance coverage 
A letter in the New England Journal of Medicine notes that while technology offers `` almost endless hope ... when to stop has become a difficult question 
Detroit Edison , the plan pioneer , generated $ 54,000 in matching funds this year , up from $ 39,000 in 1988 . 
Blunt Ellis & Loewi estimates direct mail catalog sales rose to $ 12 billion last year . 
And while it 's too soon to tell how sales will fare in the important 1989 Christmas season , some companies take steps to ease the usual 11th-hour crush 
Spiegel promises a `` Guaranteed Christmas , '' with a pledge to deliver goods before Christmas 
Spiegel promises a `` Guaranteed Christmas , '' with a pledge to deliver goods before Christmas if ordered by Dec. 20 . 
Blunt Ellis , a Milwaukee brokerage firm , says part of the reason catalog sales grow in popularity is 
Four years ago , Pittsburgh was designated the most-livable U.S. city by Rand McNally 's Places Rated Almanac 
Four years ago , Pittsburgh was designated the most-livable U.S. city by Rand McNally 's Places Rated Almanac , and the honor did wonders to improve Pittsburgh 's soot-stained image . 
Once you 're Miss America , you 're always Miss America 
The new edition lists the top 10 metropolitan areas as Anaheim-Santa Ana , Calif. ; Boston ; Louisville , Ky. ; Nassau-Suffolk , N.Y. ; New York ; Pittsburgh ; San Diego ; San Francisco ; Seattle ; and Washington . Mr. Savageau says earthquake or not , San Francisco makes the list . 
The new edition lists the top 10 metropolitan areas as Anaheim-Santa Ana , Calif. ; Boston ; Louisville , Ky. ; Nassau-Suffolk , N.Y. ; New York ; Pittsburgh ; San Diego ; San Francisco ; Seattle ; and Washington . 
But attention also rivets on who finishes last 
Northrop Corp. 's third-quarter net income fell 25 % to $ 21.5 million , or 46 cents a share 
Los Angeles-based Northrop recorded an 8.2 % decline in sales 
Los Angeles-based Northrop recorded an 8.2 % decline in sales as B-2 Stealth bomber research-and-development revenue continued to ebb 
Northrop said sales fell because of the decline in B-2 development dollars from the government as the plane continues its initial production stage 
Northrop , which since early 1988 has declined to accept fixed-price contracts for research and development , said earnings were hurt by excessive costs on a number of such contracts won years ago . 
It said debt remained at the $ 1.22 billion that has prevailed since early 1989 
At General Dynamics , factors reducing earnings in the military aircraft segment included higher levels of cost-sharing in development of the Advanced Tactical Fighter , and the high cost of an advanced version of the F-16 fighter . 
F-16 deliveries also have fallen `` slightly behind schedule 
In the first half , Lotus struggled to keep market share with costly promotions 
Rick Sherlund , a Goldman Sachs analyst , said Lotus had upgrade revenue of about $ 22 million in the quarter , twice what he had expected . 
Though details were sketchy in the aftermath of the violent earthquake that shook the high-tech corridor along with the rest of the San Francisco Bay area , a spot check of computer makers turned up little , if any , potentially lingering damage to facilities or fabrication equipment 
Intel Corp. , Advanced Micro Devices Inc. and National Semiconductor Corp. were all up and running yesterday 
`` It 's not the end of the world 
Other companies , including International Business Machines Corp. and Hewlett-Packard Co. , completely idled their operations because of Tuesday evening 's temblor , which registered 6.9 on the Richter scale . 
Still , many were confident that `` in a day or two , everything should be back to normal , '' according to a spokeswoman for the Semiconductor Industry Association , based in Cupertino . 
A Hewlett-Packard spokeswoman said that , while `` things are a big mess , '' some 18,000 Valley employees have been called back to work today 
Apple Computer added that it was being `` cautiously optimistic , '' despite not yet closely eyeballing all of its 50 buildings in the region . 
Still , many were confident that `` in a day or two , everything should be back to normal , '' according to a spokeswoman for the Semiconductor Industry Association , based in Cupertino . 
For many companies , of course , there is still a slew of nagging problems to grapple with , some of which have the potential to become quite serious . 
For many companies , of course , there is still a slew of nagging problems to grapple with , some of which have the potential to become quite serious . 
For one thing , buildings there tend to be newer 
For one thing , buildings there tend to be newer and , thus , in step with the latest safety codes . 
For one thing , buildings there tend to be newer and , thus , in step with the latest safety codes . Also , the soil in the Valley is solid , unlike the landfill of San Francisco 's downtown Marina District , which was hit with fires and vast destruction . 
Intel said that over the past decade , it has installed computer sensors and shutoff valves , sensitive to the shake of an earthquake , in the pipes that snake through its plants . 
Like other large Valley companies , Intel also noted that it has factories in several parts of the nation 
These units were handling calls both from people in the San Francisco area and from computers themselves , which are set to dial Digital automatically 
These units were handling calls both from people in the San Francisco area and from computers themselves , which are set to dial Digital automatically when trouble arises . 
Digital Equipment has set up disaster-recovery response centers in Dallas , Atlanta and Colorado Springs , Colo . 
Though details were sketchy in the aftermath of the violent earthquake that shook the high-tech corridor along with the rest of the San Francisco Bay area , a spot check of computer makers turned up little , if any , potentially lingering damage to facilities or fabrication equipment . 
At Lockheed Corp. 's missiles and space systems group in Sunnyvale , about 40 miles south of San Francisco , workers were asked to head to work yesterday 
Several engineering and research offices needed closer scrutiny to make sure they were n't in danger of crumbling 
One of Lockheed 's most lucrative sectors -- accounting for more than half the aerospace company 's $ 10.59 billion in sales in 1988 -- the missiles and space group is the prime Pentagon contractor on the Trident II ballistic missile . 
Michael Maynard offered the world a faster way to break eggs . As thanks , the egg industry tried to break him . 
Mr. Maynard is n't the first entrepreneur to bump up against entrenched interests . 
Now one might ask why people who sell eggs would fight someone who is trying to make it easier to crack them . 
However , dozens of bakers , restaurant chefs and other food preparers who flocked to Mr. Maynard 's defense say that products ranging from egg bread to eclairs lose some zip 
However , dozens of bakers , restaurant chefs and other food preparers who flocked to Mr. Maynard 's defense say that products ranging from egg bread to eclairs lose some zip when the eggs come in 30-pound cans instead of shells . 
Because fresh eggs are less expensive than processed ones , a big egg user can recover the Egg King 's $ 3,390 cost in a few months 
Such centrifugal egg breakers have been around since the 1890s . 
But when Mr. Maynard came forward with his machine in the early 1970s nobody else was offering them in the 
Hens sometimes pass salmonella to the eggs 
Hens sometimes pass salmonella to the eggs 
Hens sometimes pass salmonella to the eggs , and it can also be found on unclean shells . 
Thus , any machine that breaks large amounts of eggs at once has the potential to spread salmonella 
With nearly 4,000 machines in use , there have been no salmonella problems 
He says the handful of salmonella cases involving products that may have used eggs broken by an Egg King stemmed from a failure to adequately cook the products . 
The Decatur , Ga. , trade group has issued a `` briefing book '' that claims the machine is `` a health hazard 
The UEP declines to comment 
After receiving complaints from egg producers , this branch got the other branch to rescind its approval 
After receiving complaints from egg producers , this branch got the other branch to rescind its approval 
After receiving complaints from egg producers , this branch got the other branch to rescind its approval , thus limiting the machine 's potential market to bakeries and restaurants and other establishments that are n't regulated by the USDA . 
The egg producers also lobbied the Food and Drug Administration . 
But the FDA in a 1985 letter to the United Egg Producers said that there was `` little likelihood '' of a health problem 
But the FDA in a 1985 letter to the United Egg Producers said that there was `` little likelihood '' of a health problem as long as instructions were followed . 
Mr. Maynard , whose company at the time was based in Santa Ana , Calif. , enlisted his local congressman 
Mr. Maynard 's forces finally defeated the measure 
Mr. Maynard 's forces finally defeated the measure , though it took a vote on the floor of the House of Representatives to do it . 
Now he has moved to Oklahoma where costs are lower , and started a new company , Adsi Inc. , to market his machine . 
Michelle Pfeiffer ca n't chew gum and sing at the same time . 
But on the evidence of `` The Fabulous Baker Boys , '' that may be the only thing she ca n't do 
Her Susie Diamond handles a song the way the greats do , like she 's hearing the way it should sound inside her head 
Her Susie Diamond handles a song the way the greats do , like she 's hearing the way it should sound inside her head and she 's concentrating on matching that internal tone . 
When she is n't performing for an audience , she prepares for a song by removing the wad of gum from her mouth , and indicates that she 's finished by sticking the gum back in 
Like almost everything in this wonderfully romantic and edgy movie , Ms. Pfeiffer 's Susie seems like someone you 've seen before , in numerous show-biz stories -LRB- even her name , Susie Diamond , sounds like a character Marilyn Monroe must have played -RRB- . 
Both movies are infused with the nostalgic sensibility of someone much older , someone who does n't dismiss dreams 
Both movies are infused with the nostalgic sensibility of someone much older , someone who does n't dismiss dreams 
Both movies are infused with the nostalgic sensibility of someone much older , someone who does n't dismiss dreams , but who also has enough experience to see his limits . 
After working for years with Werner Rainer Fassbinder , the late German director , and more recently with Martin Scorsese -LRB- `` After Hours , '' `` The Color of Money , '' `` The Last Temptation of Christ '' -RRB- , Mr. Ballhaus has developed a distinctively fluid style 
Much of the picture 's sensuality emerges from cinematographer Michael Ballhaus 's slyly seductive lens work . 
Anyone who 's tried to appear `` natural '' in front of a camera knows that it 's much more natural to end up looking like a stiff . 
When the movie opens the Baker brothers are doing what they 've done for 15 years professionally , and twice as long as that for themselves : They 're playing proficient piano , face-to-face , on twin pianos 
They 're small time in the small time-hotels -LRB- not the best ones -RRB- and restaurants in Seattle . 
They wear tuxedos most nights 
Frank grovels a little for the bookers , probably no more or less than he would have to 
Jeff Bridges is the younger brother , Jack , who fancies himself the rebellious artist ; he lives in a loft with his sick dog and the occasional visit from the little girl upstairs , who climbs down the fire escape . 
Yet Jack 's the one who can remember every dive they ever played , and when 
Here she delivers , especially during her enthusiastically awful rendition of the `` Candy Man , '' which she sings 
These include Jennifer Tilly 's audition to be the Baker Boys ' girl singer . Here she delivers , especially during her enthusiastically awful rendition of the `` Candy Man , '' which she sings while prancing around in a little cotton candy pink angora sweater that could n't be more perfect . -LRB- It matches her voice . -RRB- 
And Ms. Pfeiffer 's particular version of `` Making Whoopee '' -- and the way Mr. Ballhaus photographs her , from the tips of her red high heels right up her clingy red velvet dress -- might make you think of Marilyn Monroe 
If you 'd like to see the first time Michelle Pfeiffer sang on screen , and you have a lot of patience , take a look at `` Grease 2 
If you 'd like to see the first time Michelle Pfeiffer sang on screen 
Control Data has been seeking a buyer for the facility 
Bank Building & Equipment Corp. of America , which previously said accounting discrepancies its auditors uncovered would hurt earnings and require restatement of earlier results , increased its projections of the negative fiscal impact , and said it was exploring the company 's sale 
Company auditors are continuing their review 
Bank Building , which expects to report a fourth-quarter loss , said it engaged advisers to `` explore financial alternatives for the company including the possible sale of the company or one or more of its units . '' 
I do n't want to feel guilty representing my constituents . 
And if I think that some people -LCB- on HUD Secretary Jack Kemp 's -RCB- staff are off base in terms in which they 're evaluating certain things affecting my hometown , I have to tell you something -- I 'm not going to take it 
I think that I 'm elected to represent the people that sent me here . 
And one of our charges is to be an ombudsman for our area . 
And if we 're not ombudsman for our area , we ought to be thrown out of office 
And if we 're not ombudsman for our area , we ought to be thrown out of office . 
On the other hand , if we 're asking for something unreasonable or unethical and so on 
On the other hand , if we 're asking for something unreasonable or unethical and so on , then that 's a whole different story . 
But if I feel that there are situations where I 'm trying to get housing for our area -- whatever it happens to be -- and I have to feel that I ca n't even ask a question , I 've got to tell you , I think that 's outrageous 
But if I feel that there are situations where I 'm trying to get housing for our area 
Capcom Futures , while neither admitting nor denying the Merc charges , said in a statement that the Merc charges were `` technical in nature '' and that `` no customers were hurt '' as a result of the violations cited by the Merc 
Capcom Futures , while neither admitting 
Capcom Futures , while neither admitting nor denying the Merc charges , said in a statement that the Merc charges were `` technical in nature 
Money-market mutual fund assets grew at nearly three times their usual rate in the latest week 
Most short-term certificates of deposit are yielding about 8 % or less at major banks 
`` If you 're selling equities , you do n't start getting proceeds for five to seven days 
Money-fund yields tend to lag interestrate trends 
Maturities usually are shorter 
Maturities usually are shorter when rates are rising and longer 
The average 30-day simple yield was 8.26 % , compared with 8.27 % the week before 
The complex restructuring , which was long expected , transforms London-based WCRS from primarily a creator of advertising into one of Europe 's largest buyers of advertising time and space . 
The merged agency 's admittedly ambitious goal : to become one of the world 's 10 largest agencies 
The complex restructuring , which was long expected , transforms London-based WCRS from primarily a creator of advertising into one of Europe 's largest buyers of advertising time and space . 
For Eurocom , meanwhile , the move gives it a strong U.S. foothold in Della Femina , and more than quadruples the size of its ad agency business world-wide . 
According to terms , WCRS will pay 2.02 billion French francs -LRB- $ 318.6 million -RRB- for the 50 % it does n't already own of Carat Holding S.A. , one of Europe 's largest media buyers . 
Meanwhile , Eurocom , which had held 20 % of WCRS 's ad unit , will pay # 43.5 million -LRB- $ 68.5 million -RRB- to raise its stake to 60 % . 
That price also covers Eurocom raising to 60 % its 51 % stake in Europe 's Belier Group , a joint venture ad agency network it owns with WCRS . 
The new agency group is already in discussions about a possible purchase in Spain 
The new agency group is already in discussions about a possible purchase in Spain 
When WCRS created Della Femina McNamee out of the merger of three smaller agency units in 1988 , it said it did so in order to attract larger clients , especially packaged-goods companies 
Since then , Della Femina won Pan Am as an international client 
Since then , Della Femina won Pan Am as an international client and also does work for a few packaged-goods clients , including Dow Chemical Co. 's Saran Wrap . 
Cracking the top 10 within three years will be difficult at best . 
Carat will receive its WCRS stake as part of payment for the 50 % Carat stake that WCRS is buying 
They and other top executives signed long-term employment contracts 
WCRS Group , for its part , will now be able to follow its longstanding plan of becoming `` a holding company for a series of media-related businesses , '' said Peter Scott , the firm 's chief executive . 
By buying the space in bulk , they obtain discounts as high as 50 % , which they can pass on to customers . 
They thus have won the French space-buying business of such advertising giants as Coca-Cola Co. , Fiat S.p . A. , Gillette and Kodak . 
But now , other agencies are getting into the business with their own competing media-buying groups 
To help finance the Carat purchase , WCRS said it plans an issue of Euroconvertible preferred shares 
To help finance the Carat purchase , WCRS said it plans an issue of Euroconvertible preferred shares once the market settles down . 
While no agencies reported injuries to employees , the quake damaged the offices of J. Walter Thompson , Chiat\/Day\/Mojo and DDB Needham , among others 
Staffers at Thompson , whose offices are in the ultramodern Embarcadero Center , watched pictures drop from the walls 
Chesebrough-Pond 's Inc. , Greenwich , Conn. , awarded its Faberge hair care accounts to J. Walter Thompson , New York . 
The division will be headed by Dick Porter , who returns to Bozell 
The agency 's three California offices , previously called AC&R\/CCL Advertising , will now be called AC&R Advertising to match the name of its New York office 
The deportation of more than 315,000 men , women and children by the Bulgarian regime adds up to one of the largest migrations seen in the postwar years . 
Yet some people are advancing a chilling casuistry : that what we are seeing is somehow the understandable result of the historical sins committed by the Turks in the 16th century . 
As if this were n't enough , the Senate Judiciary Committee is getting into the act 
There can be no quibbling that the Armenians endured terrible suffering 
It puts great strain on a longstanding U.S. friendship with Turkey , a country that has been one of America 's strongest allies in NATO . 
Such sentiment only encourages the adverse feelings toward Turkey that surfaced 
It 's when these rationalizations fall on deaf ears that the old standby of retribution for treatment at the hands of the Ottoman Empire comes to the fore 
Surely , the past suffering of any people at any time can not be simply filed away and forgotten . 
Bulgaria 's government has been behaving beyond the pale for months 
Bulgaria 's government has been behaving beyond the pale for months , and the U.S. does its values no credit by ignoring that 
If that takes money , take it away from this discredited federal department 
If that takes money , take it away from this discredited federal department . 
But of course the Democrats pillorying HUD in hearings and in the press have no such solution in mind . 
No doubt many of his ideas are worthy 
Last week , Secretary Kemp ran into a buzzsaw of criticism from House Banking Committee members . 
These development grants mainly enrich developers who want to put up shopping centers and parking garages . 
They also give those in Congress political credit for bringing home the pork 
They also give those in Congress political credit for bringing home the pork 
Rep. Oakar , a Democrat from Cleveland , wants a $ 6.9 million grant 
HUD says the project does n't qualify 
The implication that if a congressman calls about a project in his district there 's something wrong 
We 're sure some theologian can explain the difference between what the Republican consultants have been doing with HUD 
Some HUD money actually does trickle down to the poor 
Decent life in the inner cities wo n't be restored 
A licensed government intellectual , Francis Fukuyama , recently announced in The National Interest that history is , so to speak , at an end 
His observations were taken seriously . 
Builders get away with using sand and financiers junk 
Builders get away with using sand and financiers junk when society decides it 's okay , necessary even , to look the other way . 
By that time they found extremely low profit rates from non-financial corporate investment . 
That same calculation saw profit rates fall to 4.6 % in the recession year 1982 
Corresponding to the fall in profit rates was -- in the early 1980s -- the drop in the number arrived at 
In theory , the value attached to a firm by the market and the cost of replacing its assets should be the same . 
But of course the market could decide that the firm 's capital stock -- its assets -- means nothing 
But of course the market could decide that the firm 's capital stock -- its assets -- means nothing if the firm is not producing profits . 
From the history of capitalism we can take it as a sound bet that if it takes only 43 cents to buy a dollar 's worth of a firm 's capital stock , an alert entrepreneur wo n't look the other way 
His assumption is that the underlying profitability rate will go up 
His assumption is that the underlying profitability rate will go up and the capital assets he bought on the cheap will soon be producing profits 
From the history of capitalism we can take it as a sound bet that if it takes only 43 cents to buy a dollar 's worth of a firm 's capital stock , an alert entrepreneur wo n't look the other way . 
But here is where the entrepreneur made a very risky bet 
The profit rate is still low 
The mounting risks did not go unobserved , even in the mid-1980s . 
Mainstream economists and commentators , craning their necks up at the great pyramids of junk financing , swiveling their heads to watch the avalanche of leveraged buy-outs , claimed the end result would be a leaner , meaner corporate America , with soaring productivity and profits and the weaker gone to the wall . 
Profit rates after the great merger wave are no higher 
From its peak in 1972 of $ 198.41 , the average American weekly wage had fallen to $ 169.28 in 1987 -- both figures being expressed in 1977 dollars . 
In other words , after the glory boom of the Reagan years , wages had sunk from the post World War II peak by 16 % 
In other words , after the glory boom of the Reagan years , wages had sunk from the post World War II peak by 16 % as capitalists , helped by the government , turned down the screws or went offshore . 
Governments have become sophisticated in handling moments of panic -LRB- a word the London Times forbade my father to use 
Governments have become sophisticated in handling moments of panic -LRB- a word the London Times forbade my father to use when he was reporting the Wall Street crash in 1929 -RRB- . 
Capitalism may now be engineered to withstand sudden shocks 
Capitalism may now be engineered to withstand sudden shocks , but there are fault lines -- the crisis in profits , the assault on wages , the structural inequity of the system -- that make fools of those who claim that the future is here 
Many airlines are talking about cargo ventures 
In Tokyo , a JAL spokesman said he could n't confirm or deny the latest Japanese report . 
If the three companies pool their air-freight businesses , their clout would be considerable 
Other airlines would have access to the system 
Several airlines , including Lufthansa , JAL and Cathay Pacific Airways , are working on a so-called global cargo system and are trying to attract other carriers to join , Mr. Daly said . 
Last month , the carrier said it wanted to lease crews and planes from British Airways 
British Airways said it has n't received a proposal from JAL . 
The decision , which affects millions of dollars of trading positions , was made late yesterday 
The Big Board said carpenters quickly erected a new options floor to accomodate 40 traders from the Pacific exchange . 
Investors were concerned that they might be unable to exercise options that expire tomorrow . 
But professionals said throughout the day that the shutdown would n't be a cause for alarm 
`` I 've told my staff and clients that they still have the ability to exercise their options 
`` I 've told my staff and clients that they still have the ability to exercise their options , because they are guaranteed by the Options Clearing Corp. , '' said Michael Schwartz , a senior registered options strategist at Oppenheimer & Co . 
While the exchange 's equities floor in San Francisco remained open on a limited basis , orders were being routed and executed in Los Angeles 
Workers could dial out 
Because the exchange 's computer was rerouting orders to the exchange 's trading operations in Los Angeles , `` business is as usual 
`` If one city is down , the other can take over 
While the exchange 's equities floor in San Francisco remained open on a limited basis , orders were being routed and executed in Los Angeles . 
Traders worked with the help of sunlight streaming through windows , despite large cracks in the walls and a lack of incoming phone calls . 
At Kidder , Peabody & Co. 's Sacramento branch , Manager Janet White received calls yesterday morning from workers in San Francisco who offered to work in Sacramento . 
Then she discovered that Quotron Systems Inc. 's Sacramento lines were down 
Then she discovered that Quotron Systems Inc. 's Sacramento lines were down , because they are normally tied in through a system that goes through San Francisco . 
The company dispatched as many as 200 people in the San Francisco area to do the work 
Service appeared to be down throughout the financial district in downtown San Francisco 
Service appeared to be down throughout the financial district in downtown San Francisco , while just parts of Oakland and San Jose were knocked out . 
In Chicago yesterday , Options Clearing confirmed that it guarantees the Pacific exchange options . 
The firm also will permit its members and the public `` to exercise their put and call options contracts traded on the Pacific exchange 
-LRB- Put options give holders the right , but not the obligation , to sell a financial instrument at a specified price 
Investors and traders in Pacific exchange options `` are protected to the extent that they can convert their put and call options into the underlying instrument , '' Mr. Luthringshausen said . 
Even as the stock market has generally done well this year , IBM 's shares have slipped steadily from its 52-week high of $ 130.875 
The announcement came 
The company has spent some $ 5 billion over the past 3 1\/2 years to buy back 42 million common shares , or roughly 7 % of those outstanding . 
The company has spent some $ 5 billion over the past 3 1\/2 years to buy back 42 million common shares , or roughly 7 % of those outstanding . In addition , despite IBM 's well-publicized recent problems , the computer giant still generates enormous amounts of cash . As of the end of the second quarter , it had $ 4.47 billion of cash and marketable securities on hand . 
In Armonk , N.Y. , a spokesman said that although IBM did n't view its spending as necessarily a way to support the stock , it thought the purchases were a good way to improve such financial measurements as per-share earnings and return on equity 
At yesterday 's closing price , $ 1 billion would buy back about 10 million shares , or less than 2 % of the roughly 580 million outstanding . 
In the short term , the move is likely to have little effect . 
Although IBM last year produced its first strong results in four years and was expected to continue to roll this year , it began faltering as early as January 
First , it had trouble manufacturing a chip for its mainframes , IBM 's bread-and-butter business . 
First , it had trouble manufacturing a chip for its mainframes , IBM 's bread-and-butter business . Then it had a series of smaller glitches , including problems manufacturing certain personal computers and the delay in the announcement of some important workstations . 
None of the problems is necessarily fatal 
First , it had trouble manufacturing a chip for its mainframes , IBM 's bread-and-butter business . Then it had a series of smaller glitches , including problems manufacturing certain personal computers and the delay in the announcement of some important workstations . Finally , IBM had to delay the introduction of some high-end disk drives , which account for 10 % of its $ 60 billion of annual revenue . 
The strong dollar , which reduces the value of overseas earnings and revenue 
None of the problems is necessarily fatal , and they are n't all necessarily even related . There are also other factors at work that are outside IBM 's control , such as currency exchange rates . 
Still , investors will take some convincing 
Steve Milunovich , a securities analyst at First Boston , said that while investors were looking for an excuse to buy IBM shares a year ago , even the big institutional investors are looking for a reason to avoid the stock these days 
`` Wall Street thinks of everything in terms of money , '' says Tom Gallagher , a senior Oppenheimer & Co. trader . 
Before this bullish theory surfaced , some insurance stocks initially fell 
Before this bullish theory surfaced , some insurance stocks initially fell , indicating that investors thought the quake might cost insurers a lot of money . 
On the prospect for rebuilding northern California , investors bid up cement-makers Calmat Co. , up $ 2.75 to $ 28.75 , and Lone Star Industries Inc. , up $ 1.75 to $ 29.25 . Bridge and road builders had a field day , including Kasler Corp. , up $ 2.125 to $ 9.875 , Guy F. Atkinson Co. , up 87.5 to $ 61.875 , and Morrison Knudsen Corp. , which reported higher third-quarter earnings yesterday , up $ 2.25 to $ 44.125 . Fluor Corp. , a construction engineering firm , gained 75 cents to $ 33.375 . 
Tosco Corp. jumped $ 1.125 to $ 20.125 
On the prospect for rebuilding northern California , investors bid up cement-makers Calmat Co. , up $ 2.75 to $ 28.75 , and Lone Star Industries Inc. , up $ 1.75 to $ 29.25 . Bridge and road builders had a field day , including Kasler Corp. , up $ 2.125 to $ 9.875 , Guy F. Atkinson Co. , up 87.5 to $ 61.875 , and Morrison Knudsen Corp. , which reported higher third-quarter earnings yesterday , up $ 2.25 to $ 44.125 . Fluor Corp. , a construction engineering firm , gained 75 cents to $ 33.375 . But home-building stocks were a mixed bag . Timber stocks got a big boost . Georgia Pacific Corp. , up $ 1.25 to $ 58 , and Maxxam Inc. , up $ 3 to $ 43.75 , both reported strong profits . Merrill Lynch & Co. touted Georgia-Pacific , Louisiana Pacific Corp. and Willamette Industries Inc. as the best post-quake plywood plays . Other gainers were companies with one or more undamaged California refineries . Tosco Corp. jumped $ 1.125 to $ 20.125 and Chevron Corp. , despite a temporary pipeline shutdown , rose $ 1 to $ 65 . 
Wells Fargo & Co. fell 50 cents to $ 81.50 
Wells Fargo & Co. fell 50 cents to $ 81.50 , and BankAmerica Corp. fell 50 cents to $ 31.875 . 
One of its power generators was damaged 
A computer failure delayed its earnings announcement 
Petco Options , an options trading firm owned by the family of the deceased former Chicago Board of Trade chairman Ralph Peters , is getting out of the trade clearing , or processing and guaranteeing , business 
`` The owners of the company got a look at the potential risks in this business 
Over the weekend Fossett Corp. , another options trading firm , transferred the clearing accounts of about 160 traders to First Options of Chicago , a unit of Continental Bank 
Prior to the introduction of financial futures in the late 1970s , most trading firms clustered around the LaSalle Street financial district here were family operations handed down from one generation to the next . 
Betty Lombardi is a mild-mannered homemaker and grandmother in rural Hunterdon County , N.J . 
But put her behind a shopping cart 
If Colgate toothpaste offers a tempting money-saving coupon , she 'll cross Crest off her shopping list without a second thought 
After she heard about the artery-clogging hazards of tropical oils in many cookies , she dropped Pepperidge Farm and started buying brands free of such oils 
`` I always thought Pepperidge Farm was tasty and high quality , '' Mrs. Lombardi says . 
-LRB- Pepperidge Farm says it ca n't tell exactly how many customers it has lost 
While brand loyalty is far from dead , marketing experts say it has eroded during the 1980s 
More than half the users of 17 of the 25 products included in the survey said they 're brand switchers . 
Only 2 % are brand loyal in 16 to 20 of the categories 
Coke and Pepsi are all the same to me 
People often stay with a particular brand 
Only 23 % of trash-bag users in the Journal survey usually buy the same brand 
Underwear scored a middling 36 % in brand loyalty 
Brand loyalty was stronger among older consumers in the Journal survey . 
An established brand name is insurance that at least the product will be of acceptable quality 
Higher-income people also tend to be more brand loyal these days , the Journal survey and other research studies indicate . 
The biggest wild card in the brand loyalty game : How those hotly pursued but highly unpredictable baby boomers will behave 
They grew up with more brand choices than any generation and have shown less allegiance so far . 
But now that they 're settling down and raising families , might they also show more stability in their brand choices 
But now that they 're settling down and raising families 
`` Earlier generations were brand loyal across categories 
While not as brand loyal as in the past , consumers today do n't buy products capriciously , either 
While not as brand loyal as in the past , consumers today do n't buy products capriciously , either . 
If a more absorbent Pampers hits the market , you can be sure a new and improved Huggies wo n't be far behind 
`` When there 's a clutter of brands , consumers simplify the complexity by telling themselves , ` All brands are the same so what difference does it make which I buy 
`` When there 's a clutter of brands , consumers simplify the complexity by telling themselves , ` All brands are the same 
`` Too often , advertising imagery has n't done a good job of forging a special emotional bond between a brand and the consumer . '' 
But given such strong brand disloyalty , some marketers are putting renewed emphasis on image advertising . 
While discount promotions are essential for most brands , some companies concede they went overboard in shifting money from advertising to coupons , refunds and other sales incentives 
Some people argue that strong brands can afford to stop advertising for a time because of the residual impact of hundreds of millions of dollars spent on advertising through the years . 
Says Clayt Wilhite , president of the D'Arcy Masius ad agency 's U.S. division , `` Every time 24 hours pass without any advertising reinforcement , brand loyalty will diminish ever so slightly -- even for a powerful brand like Budweiser . '' 
The Kraft General Foods brand stopped advertising for about a year in 1987 and gave up several market share points and its leadership position in the coffee business . 
But since returning to advertising , Maxwell House has regained the lost share and is running neck and neck with archrival Folgers 
`` Even though brand loyalty is rather strong for coffee , we need advertising to maintain and strengthen it 
Our heavy users consume two to three cans of soup a week 
Campbell Soup Co. , for one , has concluded that it makes good sense to focus more on its most loyal customers than on people who buy competitive brands . 
Getting a grip on the extent of the damages is proving a far more difficult task than what insurers faced 
Getting a grip on the extent of the damages is proving a far more difficult task than what insurers faced after Hurricane Hugo ripped through the Caribbean and the Carolinas last month . 
Since commercial air travel is interrupted , Aetna , based in Hartford , Conn. , chartered three planes to fly claims adjusters into Sacramento and then planned for them to drive to the Bay area 
Since commercial air travel is interrupted , Aetna , based in Hartford , Conn. , chartered three planes to fly claims adjusters into Sacramento 
State Farm said about 25 % of its policyholders in California have also purchased earthquake insurance . 
The Association of California Insurance Companies estimated damage to residential property could total $ 500 million 
Industry officials say the Bay Bridge -- unlike some bridges -- has no earthquake coverage , either 
Industry officials say the Bay Bridge -- unlike some bridges -- has no earthquake coverage , either , so the cost of repairing it probably would have to be paid out of state general operating funds . 
However , the bridge , which charges a $ 1 toll each way , does have `` loss of income '' insurance to replace lost revenue 
Earthquake-related claims are n't expected to cause significant financial problems for the insurance industry as a whole . 
Instead , even with the liabilities of two natural disasters in recent weeks , analysts said the total capital of the industry is likely to be higher at year end than it was at midyear . 
Indeed , the earthquake could contribute to a turnaround in the insurance cycle in a couple of ways . 
Such increased demand for reinsurance , along with the losses the reinsurers will bear from these two disasters , are likely to spur increases in reinsurance prices 
Earthquake-related claims are n't expected to cause significant financial problems for the insurance industry as a whole . 
Although it 's unclear how much exposure the London market will face , U.K. underwriters traditionally have a large reinsurance exposure to U.S. catastrophe coverage 
Hunter Environmental Services Inc. said it reached a preliminary accord on the sale of its environmental consulting and services business for about $ 40 million and assumption of related debt . 
Hunter Environmental Services Inc. said it reached a preliminary accord on the sale of its environmental consulting and services business for about $ 40 million and assumption of related debt . The company said it also is making progress in negotiating the buy-out of its design division by management . 
Sir John Egan told reporters at London 's Motorfair yesterday he `` would be disappointed 
Besides creating joint manufacturing ventures , the accord is expected to give GM about a 15 % stake that eventually would rise to about 30 % 
Jaguar figures a friendly alliance with GM will fend off unwelcome advances from Ford Motor Co . 
Sir John has spurned Ford 's advances 
Sir John has spurned Ford 's advances since the U.S. auto giant launched a surprise bid for as much as 15 % of Jaguar last month . 
`` I 'm not obligated to sit down and talk to anybody , '' the Jaguar chairman asserted yesterday . 
He said Jaguar started negotiating with GM and several other car makers over a year ago 
He said Jaguar started negotiating with GM and several other car makers over a year ago , but the rest `` dropped by the wayside 
Jaguar shares stood at 405 pence before Ford 's initial announcement 
That may be difficult 
'' Ford probably would try to kill the proposal by enlisting support from U.S. takeover-stock speculators 
Ford ca n't make a full-fledged bid for Jaguar 
Ford ca n't make a full-fledged bid for Jaguar until U.K. government restrictions expire . 
`` It 's a very valuable weapon in their armory , '' which could enable Ford to bid sooner for Jaguar , observed Mr. Barber of James Capel . But with its 10.4 % stake , Ford can convene a special Jaguar shareholders ' meeting and urge them to drop the restrictions prematurely . 
`` It has never been done before 
Although two Baby Bells showed strong growth in access lines , usage and unregulated business revenue , one reported a modest gain in third-quarter net while the other posted a small drop 
Although two Baby Bells showed strong growth in access lines , usage and unregulated business revenue , one reported a modest gain in third-quarter net 
Ameritech Corp. 's earnings increased 2.8 % 
Overall access minutes of use increased 10.3 % 
The refinancing of $ 481 million in long-term debt reduced net income by $ 22 million , or five cents a share , but in the long run will save more than $ 250 million in interest costs . The company previously said that the recent acquisition of Mobile Communications Corp. of America would dilute 1989 earnings by about 3 % . 
Ameritech At Ameritech , based in Chicago , customer access lines increased by 402,000 , or 2.6 % , and cellular mobile lines increased by 80,000 , or 62.3 % , for the 12-month period ended Sept. 30 . 
Local service revenue increased 3.5 % 
Local service revenue increased 3.5 % and directory and unregulated business revenue jumped 9.5 % . 
But network access revenue dropped 4 % 
For each poll , the odds are 19 out of 20 that if pollsters had sought to survey every household in the U.S. using the same questionnaire , the findings would differ from these poll results by no more than 2 1\/2 percentage points in either direction 
For each poll , the odds are 19 out of 20 that if pollsters had sought to survey every household in the U.S. using the same questionnaire , the findings would differ from these poll results by no more than 2 1\/2 percentage points in either direction . 
They accounted for a hefty 16 % of New York Stock Exchange volume Monday , the fourth busiest session ever . On Friday , 13 % of volume was in computer-guided program trades . 
Program traders were publicly castigated following the 508-point crash Oct. 19 , 1987 
Program traders were publicly castigated following the 508-point crash Oct. 19 , 1987 , and a number of brokerage firms pulled back from using this strategy for a while . 
But as the outcry faded by the spring of 1988 , they resumed 
Some observers thought that after Friday 's sharp drop , the firms would rein in their program traders to avoid stoking more controversy . 
Stock-index arbitrage is the most controversial form of program trading 
Stock-index arbitrage is the most controversial form of program trading because it accelerates market moves 
Stock-index arbitrage is the most controversial form of program trading because it accelerates market moves , if not actually causing them . 
Though it collects such data daily , its monthly reports on program trading usually come out about three weeks after each month ends 
Though it collects such data daily , its monthly reports on program trading usually come out 
The Big Board declined to name the Wall Street firms involved in the activity Friday and Monday , or the type of strategies used . 
Though brokerage officials defended their use of program trading , one sign of what an issue it remains was that few executives would comment on the record 
Besides reciting the pardon for program trading contained in the Brady Commission report , they said stock-index arbitrage was actually needed Monday to restore the markets ' equilibrium 
On Friday , the stock-index futures market was unhinged from the stock market 
Futures trading resumed a half-hour later 
Futures trading resumed a half-hour later 
By Monday morning , they said , stock-index arbitrage sell programs helped re-establish the link between stocks and futures . 
The Dow Jones Industrial Average plunged a breathtaking 63.52 points in the first 40 minutes of trading Monday 
`` The Arizona real estate market continues to be depressed 
In July , Moody 's downgraded $ 400 million of the company 's debt , saying the bank holding company had n't taken adequate write-offs against potential losses on real estate loans despite its second-quarter write-down . 
`` They 've stepped up to the plate to take the write-downs 
`` They 've stepped up to the plate to take the write-downs , but when markets head down , a company is always exposed to further negative surprises 
Ever since that fearful Black Monday , they 've been tirelessly wooing wary individual investors -- trying to convince them that Oct. 19 , 1987 , was a fluke 
Ever since that fearful Black Monday , they 've been tirelessly wooing wary individual investors -- trying to convince them that Oct. 19 , 1987 , was a fluke and that the stock market really is a safe place for average Americans to put their hard-earned dollars . 
And until last Friday , it seemed those efforts were starting to pay off . 
`` It 's going to set things back for a period 
`` I think it will shake confidence one more time 
Mr. Mason says he 's convinced the public still wants to invest in common stocks , even though they believe the deck is stacked against them 
Mr. Mason says he 's convinced the public still wants to invest in common stocks 
Mr. Mason says he 's convinced the public still wants to invest in common stocks , even though they believe the deck is stacked against them . 
After expanding rapidly during the bull-market years up to the 1987 crash , retail brokerage operations these days are getting barely enough business to pay the overhead 
True , the amount of money investors are willing to entrust to their brokers has been growing lately . 
The brokers ' hope has been that they could soon coax investors into shifting some of their hoard into the stock market . 
In 1987 , an average 19.7 % of Big Board volume was retail business , with the monthly level never more than 21.4 % . The retail participation dropped to an average 18.2 % in 1988 , and shriveled to barely 14 % some months during the year . 
Jeffrey Schaefer , the SIA 's research director , says that all of his group 's retail-volume statistics could be overstated by as much as five percentage points 
Jeffrey Schaefer , the SIA 's research director , says that all of his group 's retail-volume statistics could be overstated by as much as five percentage points because corporate buy-backs are sometimes inadvertently included in Big Board data . 
But there did seem to be a retail activity pickup . 
With the gyrations of recent days , says Hugo Quackenbush , senior vice president at Charles Schwab , many small investors are absolutely convinced that `` they should n't play in the stock market . '' 
Investors will develop `` thicker skins 
Joseph Grano , president of retail sales and marketing at PaineWebber Group Inc. , still thinks that individual investors will eventually go back into the stock market . 
`` The equity decision will come 
`` The equity decision will come when the client is ready 
`` The equity decision will come 
`` Some investors will tiptoe back in , '' says Richard Ross , a market research director for Elrick & Lavidge in Chicago . 
The offering , Series 1989-83 , is backed by Fannie Mae 9 % securities . 
The two offerings bring Fannie Mae 's 1989 Remic issuance to $ 31 billion and its total volume to $ 43.3 billion 
If no margin agreed , there is a fallback rate of Libor plus 0.75 point in years one to 15 , and Libor plus 1.25 point thereafter 
Callable on March 31 , 1992 , at 109 
The size of the issue was decreased from an originally planned $ 95.2 million . 
John V. Holmes , an investment-newsletter publisher , and three venture-capital firms he organized were enjoined from violating the registration provisions of the securities laws governing investment companies . 
Mr. Holmes was the subject of a page one profile in The Wall Street Journal in 1984 
In charges filed last week in federal district court in Charlotte , N.C. , the SEC alleged that Venture Capitalists Inc. , Venture Finance Corp. and New Ventures Fund Inc. , all of Charlotte , failed repeatedly to file proper documents . 
John V. Holmes , an investment-newsletter publisher , and three venture-capital firms he organized were enjoined from violating the registration provisions of the securities laws governing investment companies . 
Two of Mr. Holmes 's business associates who worked for Venture Capitalists , Kimberly Ann Smith and Frederick Byrum , also consented to being enjoined from violations of registration provisions of the securities laws . 
He gave 10-to-1 odds that a capital-gains tax cut of some sort would be approved this year 
Senate Republicans have settled on a proposal that would cut the capital-gains tax for individuals and corporations . 
The exclusion would rise five percentage points for each year the asset was held 
For individuals , the Packwood plan would exclude from income 5 % of the gain from the sale of a capital asset held for more than one year . 
Senate Republicans have settled on a proposal that would cut the capital-gains tax for individuals and corporations . 
Senate Republicans have settled on a proposal that would cut the capital-gains tax for individuals and corporations . 
Separately , Chairman Dan Rostenkowski -LRB- D. , Ill . -RRB- of the House Ways and Means Committee said he did n't want the capital-gains tax cut or any other amendments attached to the pending bill raising the federal borrowing limit . 
From a helicopter a thousand feet above Oakland after the second-deadliest earthquake in U.S. history , a scene of devastation emerges : a freeway crumbled into a concrete sandwich , hoses pumping water into once-fashionable apartments , abandoned autos . 
The economic life of the region is expected to revive in a day or two 
A main factor mitigating more widespread damage was the location of the quake 's epicenter -- 20 miles from the heart of the Silicon Valley and more than 50 miles from downtown San Francisco and Oakland . 
The tremendous energy of the quake was dissipated by the distance 
When the tremors struck , the region 's largely unseen high-tech fabric held up surprisingly well despite the devastation visible from the air 
Michael L. Bandler , vice president for network technology at Pacific Bell Telephone Co. , says nearly all the network 's computer switches , which move thousands of calls a minute from one location to another , changed to battery power 
The battery packs have enough power for only three hours 
That 's 
When the tremors struck , the region 's largely unseen high-tech fabric held up surprisingly well despite the devastation visible from the air . Michael L. Bandler , vice president for network technology at Pacific Bell Telephone Co. , says nearly all the network 's computer switches , which move thousands of calls a minute from one location to another , changed to battery power when the city lost power . The battery packs have enough power for only three hours , but that gave emergency crews time to turn on an emergency system that runs primarily on diesel fuel . Of some 160 switches in Pacific Bell 's network , only four went down . One of those was in Hollister , Calif. , near the earthquake 's epicenter . Few telephone lines snapped . That 's because the widely used fiber-optic cable has been installed underground with 25 extra feet of cable between junction points . The slack absorbs the pulling strain generated by an earthquake . 
Nevertheless , phone service was sporadic ; many computer terminals remained dark 
The economic dislocation was as abrupt as the earthquake itself 
A quarter of a million people cross the Bay Bridge every day , far more than the 100,000 that use the Bay Area Rapid Transit system -LRB- BART -RRB- -- which was working but was n't stopping in the city 's Financial District yesterday afternoon 
A quarter of a million people cross the Bay Bridge every day , far more than the 100,000 that use the Bay Area Rapid Transit system -LRB- BART -RRB- -- which was working but was n't stopping in the city 's Financial District yesterday afternoon because electricity was shut off 
The damage to the Bay area 's roadways could cause significant economic hardship . 
San Francisco Mayor Art Agnos estimated the damage to his city alone at $ 2 billion . 
Ten of the plant 's workers were injured 
Metal racks on the plant floor fell over 
The plant was evacuated 
The plant was evacuated and workers sent home . 
But the plant was able to resume limited production of its Toyota Corollas and Geo Prizms by 6 a.m. yesterday 
Computer maker Hewlett-Packard Co. , based in Palo Alto , says one of its buildings sustained severe damage 
` When the quake hit , we turned on our emergency generator and brought our computers up 
The companies block traffic much as highway on-ramps are blocked 
William E. Downing , Pacific Bell 's vice president of customer services for the Bay area , says most long-distance companies were blocking about 50 % of all calls . 
Ironically , the long-term effect of the earthquake may be to bolster the Bay area 's economic fortunes and , indeed , the nation 's gross national product . 
`` It would in the near-term give a boost to the San Francisco economy 
Adds Stacy Kotman , an economist at Georgia State University , `` There 's nothing positive about an earthquake 
In Greenwich , Conn. , Lone Star spokesman Michael London says , `` Obviously with an earthquake of this size , there are likely to be construction projects 
Wall Street reacted swiftly yesterday to the disaster by bidding up stocks of construction and related companies . 
The earthquake is likely to reduce GNP negligibly in the near term 
The earthquake is likely to reduce GNP negligibly in the near term and then could raise it a bit 
The first effects are , of course , negative 
The first effects are , of course , negative as work is disrupted 
The first effects are , of course , negative as work is disrupted and people lose income and cut spending . 
The first effects are , of course , negative as work is disrupted and people lose income and cut spending . 
Subsequently , however , the ill effects are likely to be offset , at least in economic terms 
He cautions that early damage estimates are often low ; the damage totals in Hurricane Hugo increased tenfold 
The earthquake damage , of course , would have been far greater 
Experts caution that it is far too soon for reliable estimates of the quake 's total damage 
Mr. Byrne says Fireman 's Fund will probably pay hundreds of millions in primary claims 
The company was able to assess its damage liability quickly 
In addition to paying for earthquake and fire damage , the insurer must cover worker-compensation claims and also losses due to businesses being shut down by lack of power or phone service . 
A somewhat higher percentage of people living in the Bay area have bought the additional insurance protection 
They peck away at the 1 1\/2-mile section of rubble , searching for more of the 250 people thought to have died here . 
The heart of the earthquake , 6.9 on the Richter scale , was 50 miles to the south , near Santa Cruz 
Along the way , the quake toppled a mall in Santa Cruz , knocked down buildings in San Francisco 's fashionable Marina District and sent a wall of bricks crashing on motorists in the city 's Financial District . 
Many of the buildings , mostly condominiums and apartments , were flattened almost instantly 
Onlookers say three persons died 
Onlookers say three persons died when one of the buildings exploded into a fireball 
Efforts to fight the blaze were hampered 
As onlookers stand behind barricades , helmeted firemen and building inspectors survey rows of nearby buildings that were twisted from their foundations and seem on the verge of collapse 
`` We always heard about the earthquake 
Unless otherwise specified in a particular offer , the bonds wo n't be subject to redemption prior to maturity 
G.D. Searle & Co. , a Monsanto Co. unit , is launching a program to give consumers more information about its drugs 
They are designed to be given to patients by their doctors 
Called Patients in the Know , the program features fact sheets designed to be easy to understand . The sheets tell how the medicine works , describe how to use it and list its possible side effects . They are designed to be given to patients by their doctors when the medicines are prescribed and include space for the doctor to write special instructions . 
According to federal officials and drug-industry studies , nearly half of the 1.6 billion prescriptions filled each year are n't used properly , meaning that money is wasted on some prescriptions 
Bond prices rambled yesterday 
Early yesterday , bonds rose 
Early yesterday , bonds rose as investors rushed to buy Treasury securities on the prospect that stocks would plummet in the aftermath of the massive California earthquake . 
But when the Dow Jones Industrial Average rose instead , bonds drifted lower 
Early yesterday , bonds rose as investors rushed to buy Treasury securities on the prospect that stocks would plummet in the aftermath of the massive California earthquake . 
`` If the stock market tremors are behind us 
Most junk bonds , which have been battered in recent weeks , continued a slow recuperation and ended unchanged to slightly higher . 
But some so-called high-quality junk issues fell 
Investors have been speculating for weeks about the market 's ability to place the $ 7 billion to $ 10 billion of new junk bonds scheduled to be sold by year end . 
In addition to the $ 15.6 billion of Treasury bills to be sold at next week 's regular Monday auction , the government will sell $ 10 billion of new two-year Treasury notes . 
In the municipal market , all eyes were on California debt 
In the municipal market , all eyes were on California debt as investors tried to gauge the financial ramifications of Tuesday 's earthquake . 
`` There are certain bonds traders refer to as ` earthquake ' bonds 
Since those bonds already pay a slightly higher yield , an extra premium for the earthquake risk , they were n't materially affected 
Since those bonds already pay a slightly higher yield , an extra premium for the earthquake risk , they were n't materially affected . 
But some bond market analysts said that could quickly change 
`` Insurance companies will foot a substantial amount of the bill to reconstruct San Francisco , '' said Charles Lieberman , chief economist at Manufacturers Hanover Securities Corp . 
He also expects the performance of municipals to lag Treasurys 
Municipal bonds ended about 1\/8 to 3\/8 point lower , hurt by the circulation of two `` bid-wanted '' lists totaling $ 655 million . 
Meanwhile , some California issues were down a touch more than the broad market 
Meanwhile , some California issues were down a touch more than the broad market , but traders said there had n't been much investor selling because of the quake . 
Dealers said there was some concern that insurance companies might be forced to sell mortgage securities to help pay earthquake-related claims 
The Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. and Federal National Mortgage Association , two dominant issuers of mortgage securities , have a sizable amount of California home loans in their mortgagebacked pools . 
But their potential quake exposure is seen as small given that they require a financial cushion on all the loans they purchase . 
And because Northern California home prices are so high , loans from the region often are too large to be included in Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae pools 
Mortgage securities ended little changed after light dealings . 
British government bonds , or gilts , ended moderately lower 
The Treasury 's 11 3\/4 % bond due 2003\/2007 fell 11\/32 to 111 31\/32 to yield 10.08 % 
Several key economic figures are due out 
British government bonds , or gilts , ended moderately lower as equities there recovered from Tuesday 's drop . 
In West Germany , investors stayed on the sidelines 
The Berlin Wall still stands . 
East Germany yesterday removed Erich Honecker , one of the staunchest holdouts against the reform rumbling through the Communist world , in an effort to win back the confidence of its increasingly rebellious citizens . 
But while it was a move that stunned the East bloc , it hardly ushers in an era of reform -- at least anytime soon 
East Germany , it is clear , is no Poland , where the Communist Party now shares power with the democratically elected Solidarity union . 
East Germany , it is clear , is no Poland , where the Communist Party now shares power with the democratically elected Solidarity union . Nor is it a Hungary , where yesterday the parliament approved constitutional changes meant to help turn the Communist nation into a multiparty democracy . 
Mr. Krenz , 52 , was named the new party chief 
Although the East German news agency ADN claimed Mr. Honecker had asked to be relieved of his duties for `` health reasons , '' West German government sources said the 26-man Politburo had asked for his resignation at a separate meeting late Tuesday 
-LRB- Mr. Honecker was twice hospitalized this summer for a gall bladder ailment 
East Germany yesterday removed Erich Honecker , one of the staunchest holdouts against the reform rumbling through the Communist world , in an effort to win back the confidence of its increasingly rebellious citizens . 
Mr. Krenz is expected to be formally named to all three positions 
His grip on power unraveled this summer 
The official line was to offer warmer ties to Mr. Krenz , provided he is willing to institute reforms . 
President Bush told reporters : `` Whether that -LCB- the leadership change -RCB- reflects a change in East-West relations , I do n't think so . 
One top U.S. expert on East Germany added : `` There is no clear-cut champion of reform , that we know of , in the East German leadership . '' 
He said , while dialogue is important , enough forums already exist `` in which different interests '' can express themselves 
According to West German government sources , Mr. Honecker and several senior Politburo members fought over the last week to delay any decisions about a leadership change . 
But , with public demonstrations in the country growing in size and intensity , Mr. Honecker and several key allies lost out in this battle , officials say . 
Although other resignations may follow , it 's still not clear to what extent the change in party personnel will alter the government 's resistance to fundamental change 
Born in 1937 in a Baltic Sea town now part of Poland , he was eight years old 
Since joining the Politburo in 1983 as its youngest member , Mr. Krenz had acquired the nickname `` crown prince , '' a reference to the widely held view that he was the hand-picked successor to Mr. Honecker 
Since joining the Politburo in 1983 as its youngest member , Mr. Krenz had acquired the nickname `` crown prince , '' a reference to the widely held view that he was the hand-picked successor to Mr. Honecker . 
In fact , the two men have had strikingly similar career paths , both having served as chief of internal security before their rise to the top party position . 
Notably , one of Mr. Krenz 's few official visits overseas came a few months ago , when he visited China after the massacre in Beijing . 
Moreover , both men have hewn to a similar hard-line philosophy . 
Moreover , both men have hewn to a similar hard-line philosophy . 
His shrewd ability to read the shifting popular mood in East Germany is best illustrated by his apparent break with his old mentor , Mr. Honecker . 
Besides sacking other senior Politburo officials who allied themselves with Mr. Honecker , Mr. Krenz could loosen controls on the news media , free up travel restrictions , and establish a dialogue with various dissident groups 
Besides sacking other senior Politburo officials who allied themselves with Mr. Honecker , Mr. Krenz could loosen controls on the news media , free up travel restrictions , and establish a dialogue with various dissident groups . As part of his image polishing , Mr. Krenz is expected to take modest steps toward reform to rebuild confidence among the people and reassert the party 's authority . 
`` He does n't signify what people want 
Not just that people are being heard 
West German government officials and Western analysts are doubtful . At the same time , the expectations of the East German people are great and will continue to grow . 
Adding to that speculation is Mr. Krenz 's reputation as a heavy drinker 
`` This is a dynamic process 
Reports in the West German press , citing sources in East Germany , suggest Mr. Krenz may serve only as a bridge between Mr. Honecker and a genuine reform leader . 
If Mr. Krenz sticks to rigid policies the pressure from the Soviet Union could intensify 
The older generation has been torn between a fear of tampering with the status quo and a fear of what might happen 
Erasing the differences still dividing Europe , and the vast international reordering that implies , wo n't endanger the statehood of a Poland or a Hungary . 
Erasing the differences still dividing Europe , and the vast international reordering that implies , wo n't endanger the statehood of a Poland or a Hungary . 
Early in 1987 , Mr. Honecker and his team stopped paying thin compliments to Mr. Gorbachev and joined with Romania in rejecting any necessity for adjustments in their systems . 
The less-self-confident Czechoslovaks and Bulgarians , in contrast , declared their intentions to reform 
The country abandoned its former devotion to socialist unity 
Gingerly , some economists began to blame central planning . 
Their proclaimed purpose is to cleanse East Germany of its Stalinist muck , not to merge with the West . 
He was a `` socialist warrior '' who felt rankled by West Germany 's enormous postwar prosperity and the Bonn government 's steadfast refusal to recognize the legitimacy of his state . Imprisoned by the Nazis during World War II for his political beliefs , Mr. Honecker typified the postwar generation of committed Communist leaders in Eastern Europe who took their cues from Moscow . 
Finally , during his first and only state visit to Bonn two years ago , he won some measure of the recognition he had long sought . 
The European Community Commission increased its forecast for economic growth in the EC in 1989 to 3.5 % , slightly higher than its June projection of 3.25 % . 
EC inflation was seen at 4.8 % in 1989 , higher than 1988 's 3.6 % price rise . 
Hong Kong officials announced last week that the base will be relocated to a small island to allow downtown redevelopment . 
In addition to abetting in the alleged criminal breach of trust 
News of the arrest and charging of the two men helped to push prices on the Singapore Stock market sharply lower in early trading yesterday 
News of the arrest and charging of the two men helped to push prices on the Singapore Stock market sharply lower in early trading yesterday , but brokers said that the market and CDL shares recovered 
British Tissues decided to do away with its hard paper 
The paper said the bricks were used to build homes and furnaces 
The paper said the bricks were used to build homes and furnaces 
If convicted , he could be imprisoned for up to 10 years and fined $ 250,000 
Mr. Sung could n't be reached for comment . 
As the citizens of San Francisco and surrounding communities began assessing the damage from Tuesday 's devastating earthquake , NBC News began assessing the damage from what some said was a failure to provide comprehensive coverage in the earthquake 's initial moments 
While rival ABC News outstripped the competition in live coverage of the event by sheer luck -- the network was broadcasting the World Series from Candlestick Park when the quake struck -- NBC News was unable to get its signal out of San Francisco for the first hour after the quake 
While rival ABC News outstripped the competition in live coverage of the event by sheer luck -- the network was broadcasting the World Series from Candlestick Park 
`` I have to attribute the lackluster performance to a natural disaster , '' said Mr. Premner . 
`` So before I start to be really critical of NBC , I would like to know more about what happened 
There were no complaints from affiliates of CBS Inc. and Cable News Network , a unit of Turner Broadcasting System Inc . 
`` There are no commercials to make up for 
A company spokesman said the decision to eliminate the dividend resulted from a quarterly appraisal 
Analysts have estimated that Pinnacle West may have to inject between $ 300 million and $ 400 million into the MeraBank unit 
The latest period included a $ 9 million write-down on undeveloped land 
While he did n't describe the partnerships ' financial condition , he said their operations `` continue to drain the resources of Equitec 
He was threatening to take over the carrier 
`` It does n't make sense to parachute out at this price , '' Mr. Steinhardt says 
A week ago , USAir stock briefly soared above 52 after a report in USA Today that Mr. Steinhardt might launch a hostile bid for the carrier 
`` If USAir is worth 80 as a takeover and the stock went to 52 , the market was saying Steinhardt 's presence was n't worth anything , in terms of getting a deal done 
`` If USAir is worth 80 as a takeover 
In trying to raid USAir , Mr. Steinhardt abandoned his usual role as a passive investor , and ran into snags . 
Mr. Steinhardt , who runs about $ 1.7 billion for Steinhardt Partners , made his name as a gunslinging trader , moving in and out of stocks with agility -- enriching himself and his investment clients . 
Meanwhile , his big losses , for instance in 1987 's crash , generally have been trading losses . Mr. Steinhardt , who runs about $ 1.7 billion for Steinhardt Partners , made his name as a gunslinging trader , moving in and out of stocks with agility -- enriching himself and his investment clients . 
Analysts say USAir stock might lose four or five points 
Analysts say USAir stock might lose four or five points if the Steinhardt stake was dumped all at once . 
`` He does n't usually risk that much 
In recent days , traders say USAir has been buying its own shares , as part of a program to retire about eight million USAir shares 
If USAir stepped up its share purchases , that might be a way for Mr. Steinhardt to get out 
If USAir stepped up its share purchases , that might be a way for Mr. Steinhardt to get out , says Timothy Pettee , a Merrill Lynch analyst . 
In 1987 , USAir Chairman Edwin Colodny stonewalled 
Mr. Icahn , a much more practiced raider than Mr. Steinhardt , eventually sold a big USAir stake at a tiny profit through Bear , Stearns . 
Mr. Steinhardt also could take that route . 
While USAir is n't considered absolutely takeover-proof , its defenses , including the sale in August of a 12 % stake in the company to Mr. Buffett 's Berkshire Hathaway , are pretty strong 
Since last April , the investor has made seven so-called 13D filings in USAir 
Such disclosures of big holdings often are used by raiders to try to scare a company 's managers , and to stir interest in the stock . 
She thinks traders should buy the stock 
Analysts say USAir has great promise . 
By the second half of 1990 , USAir stock could hit 60 , says Helane Becker of Shearson Lehman Hutton . 
But meanwhile , USAir is expected to show losses or lackluster profit for several quarters 
But meanwhile , USAir is expected to show losses or lackluster profit for several quarters as it tries to digest Piedmont Airlines , which it acquired . 
But meanwhile , USAir is expected to show losses or lackluster profit for several quarters as it tries to digest Piedmont Airlines , which it acquired . Moreover , some investors think a recession or renewed airfare wars will pummel airline stocks in coming months . 
While he has bought and sold some USAir shares in recent days , he says that contrary to rumors , he has n't tried to unload his holding 
The company said the redemption is permitted 
Debenture holders are expected to convert most of the debentures into common 
Commodore International Ltd. said it will report a loss for the first quarter ended Sept. 30 
Commodore said that its announcement is based on preliminary information 
Commodore said that its announcement is based on preliminary information and that the situation could look different by the time final results are announced early next month . 
In fact , Commodore 's fiscal fourth-quarter loss was $ 2 million narrower than Commodore had expected 
Commodore said that its announcement is based on preliminary information and that the situation could look different by the time final results are announced early next month . 
The price can be expected to erode further 
The price can be expected to erode further , because the loss estimate came 
Commodore has assembled an experienced management team , it has persuaded many more dealers to carry its products 
Commodore has assembled an experienced management team , it has persuaded many more dealers to carry its products and it has unleashed a slick advertising campaign . 
But those represent long-term strategies that probably wo n't succeed quickly 
But those represent long-term strategies that probably wo n't succeed quickly , even if they turn out to be the right ones . 
Commodore had been counting on its consumer business to stay sufficiently healthy to support its efforts in other areas -- mainly in getting schools and businesses to use its Amiga , which has slick graphics 
Commodore had been counting on its consumer business to stay sufficiently healthy to support its efforts in other areas -- mainly in getting schools and businesses to use its Amiga , which has slick graphics yet has been slow to catch on 
Commodore had been counting on its consumer business to stay sufficiently healthy to support its efforts in other areas -- mainly in getting schools and businesses to use its Amiga , which has slick graphics yet has been slow to catch on because it is n't compatible with Apple Computer Inc. or International Business Machines Corp. hardware . 
The Commodore 64 and 128 , mainly used for children 's educational software and games , had surprised market researchers by continuing to produce strong sales 
Commodore has said it expects sales to rebound 
Activity continued to slow from the hectic pace set during the market 's plunge late Friday and its rebound Monday 
The Dow Jones Industrial Average drifted through the session within a trading range of about 30 points 
The Dow Jones Industrial Average drifted through the session within a trading range of about 30 points before closing with a gain of 4.92 at 2643.65 . 
Standard & Poor 's 500-Stock Index rose 0.60 to 341.76 , the Dow Jones Equity Market Index rose 0.71 to 320.54 
Some 822 New York Stock Exchange issues advanced in price 
Broader averages also posted modest gains . 
The average dropped 6.40 to 1247.87 and has now lost 21.7 % of its value 
Traders cited anticipation of the consumer price report for September , due today , and tomorrow 's expiration of October stock-index futures and options as major factors in the slowdown . 
The early move essentially established the day 's trading range 
I expected to see more volatility 
Mr. DeVoe said he expects prices to show some renewed instability over the next few sessions 
Insurance stocks were sold at the opening amid concerns about the level of damage claims the companies would receive as a result of the earthquake . 
Marsh & McLennan advanced 3 1\/8 to 75 7\/8 , Alexander & Alexander Services climbed 2 to 32 
Elsewhere in the group , General Re rose 2 3\/4 to 86 1\/2 , American International Group gained 3 1\/4 to 102 5\/8 , Aetna Life & Casualty added 2 3\/8 to 59 1\/2 
The heavy-construction sector was the session 's best performer among Dow Jones industry groups ; Fluor rose 3\/4 to 33 3\/8 , Morrison Knudsen gained 2 1\/4 to 44 1\/8 , Foster Wheeler added 3\/8 to 18 1\/4 
Among engineering firms , CRS Sirrine rose 5\/8 to 34 1\/4 on the Big Board 
Within the building-materials group , Georgia-Pacific climbed 1 1\/4 to 58 
Within the building-materials group , Georgia-Pacific climbed 1 1\/4 to 58 and Louisiana-Pacific added 1 to 40 3\/4 
CalMat advanced 2 3\/4 to 28 3\/4 , Lone Star Industries gained 1 3\/4 to 29 1\/4 , Lafarge rose 1 to 19 1\/2 , Southdown added 5\/8 to 24 5\/8 
Pacific Gas & Electric fell 3\/8 to 19 5\/8 in Big Board composite trading of 1.7 million shares 
Pacific Gas & Electric fell 3\/8 to 19 5\/8 in Big Board composite trading of 1.7 million shares and Pacific Telesis Group slipped 5\/8 to 44 5\/8 
The company , based in San Francisco , said it had to shut down a crude-oil pipeline in the Bay area to check for leaks 
BankAmerica eased 1\/2 to 31 7\/8 
Among California savings-and-loan stocks , H.F. Ahmanson eased 3\/8 to 22 1\/4 , CalFed slid 3\/4 to 24 1\/8 , Great Western Financial dropped 1\/2 to 21 1\/4 
UAL , the parent company of United Airlines , swung within a 14-point range during the course of the session 
British Airways , a member of the group that had offered $ 300 a share for UAL in a leveraged buy-out , said it had yet to receive a revised proposal 
British Airways , a member of the group that had offered $ 300 a share for UAL in a leveraged buy-out , said it had yet to receive a revised proposal and it was `` in no way committed '' to the completion of a bid . 
While UAL faltered , AMR , the parent of American Airlines , pulled out of its recent nosedive 
The stock had been on the decline 
The stock had been on the decline since the financing for the UAL buy-out fell through on Friday 
While UAL faltered , AMR , the parent of American Airlines , pulled out of its recent nosedive by rising 3\/4 to 74 . 
Colgate-Palmolive advanced 1 5\/8 to 63 
Analysts at several brokerage firms lowered their 1989 and 1990 earnings estimates on the company 
Philip Morris disclosed little detailed information about performance by major business lines 
Granges Inc. , citing depressed gold prices , said it plans to suspend operations for an indefinite period at its Tartan gold mine in Manitoba . 
Granges did n't say what impact the moves would have on total gold output or earnings 
Computer Associates has carved out a huge business selling such software for use in managing networks of International Business Machines Corp. computers but needs to find new markets 
For one thing , Digital , Maynard , Mass. , has sold fewer machines . 
In addition , its machines are typically easier to operate 
Revenue fell 12.7 % to $ 596.8 million from $ 684 million 
Wang Laboratories Inc. , Lowell , Mass. , beset by declining demand for its computers , reported a $ 62.1 million , 38-cents-a-share loss in its first quarter ended Sept. 30 . 
The company reiterated that it expects another loss in the second quarter and for the full year 
In a Dutch auction , the buyer sets a price range 
In a Dutch auction , the buyer sets a price range and holders give a price in that range at which they 're willing to sell their shares . 
Chicago-based Continental earned $ 65.2 million , or $ 1.04 a share , compared with $ 73.6 million , or $ 1.19 a share , a year earlier . 
Enron Corp. said a subsidiary and two United Kingdom firms are studying the feasibility of constructing a 1,500 megawatt gas-fired power plant in northern England as an outgrowth of the government 's privatization program . 
A year ago , Viacom had a net loss of $ 56.9 million , or $ 1.07 a share . Interest expense in the 1988 third quarter was $ 75.3 million . 
The communications and entertainment company said revenue rose to $ 345.5 million , from $ 311.6 million . 
Florio Fiorini , managing director of Geneva-based Sasea , said the investors would pay only a symbolic one lira for the station 
It 's sort of a Chapter 11 situation , '' he added , referring to the U.S. bankruptcy law that protects companies from creditors 
He added that details of the recapitalization still have to be worked out 
He added that details of the recapitalization still have to be worked out , but that Pathe will take 50 % of Odeon , Rome film producer Bruno Lucisano will take 10 % 
`` We think that it 's going to be far more favorable to own a station 
`` We think that it 's going to be far more favorable to own a station before the law is passed 
They are telling people what roads are closed 
In 1988 , Dallas-based Sterling protested a similar decision by NASA involving the same contract , claiming it had submitted the lowest bid . 
For the rest of 1989 , Mr. Hagen said , Conrail 's traffic and revenue `` will reflect the sluggish economy 
`` We did see some relief in raw material costs 
This temblor-prone city dispatched inspectors , firefighters and other earthquake-trained personnel to aid San Francisco . 
The amount would help Los Angeles cope in the first few weeks after its own anticipated quake 
After San Francisco Mayor Art Agnos spoke on television of the need for building inspectors to check the soundness of buildings , Los Angeles dispatched 32 inspectors to help 
After San Francisco Mayor Art Agnos spoke on television of the need for building inspectors to check the soundness of buildings , Los Angeles dispatched 32 inspectors to help . 
Two Los Angeles radio stations initiated Red Cross donation campaigns 
The Los Angeles Red Cross sent 2,480 cots , 500 blankets , and 300 pints of Type-O blood . 
It is also pulling 20 people out of Puerto Rico 
The decision was announced 
The U.S. wants a higher won to make South Korea 's exports more expensive and help trim Seoul 's trade surplus . 
South Korean President Roh Tae Woo , brushing aside suggestions that the won be revalued again , said the currency 's current level against the dollar is `` appropriate . '' 
Mr. Roh said a U.S. demand for the removal of South Korean import quotas on beef will be resolved `` satisfactorily '' but gave no hint when that will happen . 
Those activities generated $ 26.1 million in operating profit last year . 
The proposed holding company 's primary purpose would be to allow Great American to continue engaging in real estate development activities , it said . 
Mr. Lang admits that Ms. is `` in dire straits 
Mr. Lang admits that Ms. is `` in dire straits '' and that Sassy needs big promotional dollars to keep it alive . 
Though Sassy has grown quickly since its debut in March 1988 , it has been the target of conservative lobbyists and skittish advertisers who bristled at its frank editorial matter on teen-age problems 
Sassy already has recovered ; circulation has quickly passed the 500,000 mark 
`` Seventeen is written more for mothers , not their daughters , '' said Mr. Lang . 
It gets more mail in a month than McCall 's got in a year 
Lang owns 70 % of Matilda 
Industry observers have congratulated Mr. Lang on what some call his `` courageous '' handling of 
Working Woman , with circulation near one million , and Working Mother , with 625,000 circulation , are legitimate magazine success stories . 
Only recently has it been attractively redesigned 
The joint venture is being undone , with McCall 's magazine being sold last summer to the New York Times Co. 's Magazine Group for about $ 80 million 
Mr. Lang surprised Time 
Mr. Lang surprised Time soon after joining forces 
Mr. Lang surprised Time soon after joining forces when he said he would negotiate rates individually with advertisers , a practice common in broadcasting but considered taboo by magazine publishers . 
Time executives complained about the shoddy editorial quality 
Time executives complained about the shoddy editorial quality 
`` Their management changed 
`` Their management changed right after -LCB- the venture was formed -RCB- 
Mr. Lang points out that even Success , in part , fits the company 's image 
`` We would have to go outside to banks to get the money 
`` We would have to go outside to banks to get the money and I am not ready to do that , '' he said . 
The commission found that if the British government attempted to block the merger , Rhone-Poulenc would likely respond by closing the salicylates plant Monsanto operates in Wales 
Boise , Idaho-based Morrison had losses totaling $ 186 million over the two years ended in December 
Rep. Bates said he accepted the finding 
Acting 
It ordered Rep. Bates to write letters of apology to Ms. Bertussi and to a second complainant , Karen Dryden . 
The panel also warned Rep. Bates that any further violations `` may result in a recommendation that disciplinary action be considered . '' 
When it made the offer , StatesWest declined to disclose details and asked Mesa to do the same 
When it made the offer , StatesWest declined to disclose details and asked Mesa to do the same . 
Profit after taxes and minority interests increased 16 % to # 55.2 million from # 47.6 million in the year-earlier period 
Fleet\/Norstar Financial Group reported a 12 % increase in net income in the third quarter , led by a 43 % gain in its financial services group . 
The additional reserves relate to possible write-downs of certain assets held by Franklin and its subsidiaries and the default of a bond in its investment portfolio , the thrift said . 
Arkla Inc. said that as part of a program to improve profitability it will take a total of $ 189 million in after-tax charges by year end . 
The agreement calls for South African debtors to make repayments in eight installments , starting in December of next year . 
Mr. Taylor , a 36-year-old state senator from Bay St. Louis , won 65 % of the vote in a district that has voted Republican in the past five presidential elections 
Business was slow 
Most of its 4,500 workers were at work yesterday 
Most of its 4,500 workers were at work yesterday , and no production slowdown was anticipated 
AMDAHL CORP. , Sunnyvale , computer maker , annual sales of $ 1.8 billion , Amex , was closed yesterday 
AMERICAN BUILDING MAINTENANCE INDUSTRIES Inc. , San Francisco , provider of maintenance services , annual revenue of $ 582 million , NYSE , had some damage to headquarters and lost phone service 
BANKAMERICA Corp. , San Francisco , bank holding company , annual revenue of $ 10.2 billion , NYSE , yesterday had no power at its headquarters , 80 of its 433 Northern California branches were closed 
BECHTEL CORP. , San Francisco , engineering and construction concern , annual sales of $ 4 billion , had only minor structural damage at its three buildings in the city 
Backup computer tapes were hand-carried to an IBM office in Philadelphia 
A spokesman said sales are expected to be hurt 
CHEVRON CORP. , San Francisco , oil company , annual sales of $ 25.2 billion , NYSE , had minor damage to downtown headquarters 
CLOROX Co. , Oakland , consumer products , annual sales of $ 1.36 billion , NYSE , was closed yesterday but plans to reopen today or tomorrow . 
Meanwhile , orders are being routed through Kingsford Products unit in Louisville , 
GAP Inc. , San Bruno , clothing retailer , annual sales of $ 1.25 billion , NYSE , expects most of its stores to return to full operation 
There was limited production of some models yesterday 
The computer system was operating 
Others had lesser damage 
HOMESTAKE MINING CO. , San Francisco , gold and general miner , annual sales of $ 432.6 million , NYSE , said its headquarters was closed yesterday because of power failures and lack of water 
INMAC CORP. , Santa Clara , maker of computer accessories , annual sales of $ 250 million , OTC , said telephones were out at its headquarters 
INTEL Corp. , Santa Clara , semiconductor maker , annual sales of $ 2.87 billion , OTC , had some damage 
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES Corp , Armonk , N.Y. , maker of business machines , NYSE , said flooding caused by broken water pipes closed its San Jose plant , which makes high-end data-storage devices . 
KAISER ALUMINUM & CHEMICAL , Oakland , metal and chemical maker , annual sales of $ 2.22 billion , had slight structural damage to its 28-story headquarters building 
The closing , affecting 266 employees , will continue 
It was n't known to what extent , if any , the facility was damaged . 
The division had only minor damage at its Sunnyvale headquarters and plant in Palo Altos 
LONGS DRUG STORES INC. , Walnut Creek , drugstore chain , annual sales of $ 1.9 billion , NYSE , had only minor damage 
LSI LOGIC CORP. , Milpitas , maker of customized integrated circuits , annual sales of $ 550 million , NYSE , has halted manufacturing at its three plants in the area 
MEASUREX CORP. , Cupertino , maker of computer integrated manufacturing processes , annual sales of $ 265 million , NYSE , had only minor damage 
NATIONAL SEMICONDUCTOR CORP. , Santa Clara , semiconductor maker , annual sales of $ 1.65 billion , NYSE , said it had no major structural damage at its 30 Bay-area buildings 
PACIFIC GAS & ELECTRIC CO. , San Francisco , electric , gas and water supplier , annual sales $ 7.6 billion , some minor damage to headquarters , undetermined damage to four nearby substations , severe structural damage to a major power plant at Moss Landing , extensive damage to gas lines and electric lines , 400,000 residences without electricity and 69,000 without gas , can not reconnect electricity 
CHARLES SCHWAB & CO. , San Francisco , discount brokerage firm , annual sales of $ 392 million , had only minor damage to headquarters building and was up and running for yesterday 's market open . 
Firm will not , however , resume 24-hour service 
Many employees stayed home yesterday 
VARIAN ASSOCIATES INC. , Palo Alto , instrumentation and semiconductor equipment company , annual sales of $ 1.3 billion , had only minor damage 
That was the question structural engineers and California transportation officials were asking themselves yesterday 
After touring the area , California Gov. George Deukmejian late yesterday called for an inquiry into the freeway 's collapse , blaming the disaster on substandard construction 
The impact of the destruction of this 2.5-mile stretch of highway was tragically measured in lost lives . 
It could easily be two years 
It could easily be two years before the well-traveled artery that helps connect Oakland with San Francisco is reopened 
The aftershocks of the highway tragedy are reverberating in Los Angeles as well 
Caltrans abandoned double-decking in the early 1970s , following the 1971 Sylmar earthquake that destroyed freeway sections just north of Los Angeles , Mr. O'Connell explained . 
`` We 've run out of places to build freeways in 
`` We 've run out of places to build freeways in L.A. , and the only place to go is up 
`` We 've run out of places to build freeways in L.A. , and the only place to go is up , '' Mr. O'Connell said , although he acknowledges there are many obstacles , including cost . 
Reasons for the collapse of the Nimitz Freeway were sketchy yesterday . 
While the pillars did have long metal bars running vertically through them for reinforcement , they apparently lacked an adequate number of metal `` ties '' that run horizontally through the column 
Caltrans today uses a variation of the design Mr. Parker describes , with spiraling steel rods inside . 
`` Basically , we had a severe earthquake of significant duration 
Ironically , Caltrans this year began working on a second round of seismic reinforcements of freeways around the state , this time wrapping freeway columns in `` steel blankets '' to reinforce them . 
But only bridges supported with single rows of columns were top priority 
Lionel Corp. 's board unanimously rejected a tender offer of $ 8 a share , or $ 95.4 million , for as much as 90 % of Lionel by a group with a 9.9 % stake in the toy retailer . 
Lionel also urged holders of its stock and debt not to tender their securities , saying it wants to remain independent to pursue its business strategy . 
Lionel Corp. 's board unanimously rejected a tender offer of $ 8 a share , or $ 95.4 million , for as much as 90 % of Lionel by a group with a 9.9 % stake in the toy retailer . Lionel also urged holders of its stock and debt not to tender their securities , saying it wants to remain independent to pursue its business strategy . Lionel also said the offer by Robert I. Toussie Limited Partnership is inadequate , and full of conditions that leave it `` subject to substantial uncertainty . '' 
Mr. Toussie said he would respond to Lionel 's suit 
Efforts by a federal mediator to reignite talks between Boeing Co. and the Machinists union apparently failed 
Company officials and union representatives did n't meet face to face 
In a statement issued after the meeting , the aerospace giant said it wo n't increase its offer 
As the strike enters its 15th day today , some members are getting nervous 
As the strike enters its 15th day today , some members are getting nervous 
In a separate SEC filing , Albert Safer , who holds 6.46 % of United Merchants , said he retained investment bank Lazard Freres & Co. for advice 
Some of it was necessary to get federal help flowing to victims 
Mr. Bush and his aides were accused of responding too slowly 
Mr. Bush and his aides were accused of responding too slowly after the Exxon Valdez oil tanker split open in Alaskan waters 
Mr. Bush and his aides were accused of responding too slowly after the Exxon Valdez oil tanker split open in Alaskan waters and Hurricane Hugo struck the Carolina coast 
Mr. Bush and his aides were accused of responding too slowly after the Exxon Valdez oil tanker split open in Alaskan waters and Hurricane Hugo struck the Carolina coast , and they clearly do n't want a repeat of those charges now . 
He visited the Hugo devastation 
Profit after taxes and minority interests but before extraordinary items increased 22 % to # 92.6 million from # 75.6 million a year earlier 
Though the epicenter of Tuesday 's temblor was located 10 miles north of the town of Santa Cruz , and 50 miles south of San Francisco , its havoc hopscotched up the coast in seemingly random fashion 
Though the epicenter of Tuesday 's temblor was located 10 miles north of the town of Santa Cruz , and 50 miles south of San Francisco , its havoc hopscotched up the coast in seemingly random fashion . 
`` Landfill -- loose and unconsolidated earth -- may feel like rock 
`` Landfill -- loose and unconsolidated earth -- may feel like rock but it behaves like liquid 
Mr. Johnson , of the Berkeley seismographic station , said : `` Landfill can be done 
Mr. Johnson , of the Berkeley seismographic station , said : `` Landfill can be done if it 's properly compacted . 
One old building , the Golden State Bank Building on Front Street , had its yellow brick facade sheared off by the shock of the quake 
It 's a danger . We know it 's there . 
The urgency is heightened 
The urgency is heightened because this week 's earthquake -- while major and followed by hundreds of aftershocks -- did n't release enough pent-up energy tension along the faultlines to preclude more and bigger quakes soon 
If all goes well , the product will be rolled out for national sales sometime next year 
After the confusion surrounding the change of the Coke formula in 1985 , Coca-Cola was reluctant to clutter the Classic name with a brand extension . 
`` The name Classic Coke has tremendous value 
The Coke spokesman said a caffeine-free Classic should help increase volume of the original brand . 
As aftershocks shook the San Francisco Bay area , rescuers searched through rubble for survivors of Tuesday 's temblor , and residents picked their way through glass-strewn streets 
As aftershocks shook the San Francisco Bay area , rescuers searched through rubble for survivors of Tuesday 's temblor 
At least 270 people were reported killed and 1,400 injured in the rush-hour tremor that caused billions of dollars of damage along 100 miles of the San Andreas fault 
Bush declared the region a major disaster area 
The space shuttle Atlantis blasted into orbit from Cape Canaveral , 
South Korea 's President Roh addressed a joint House-Senate meeting and urged patience over U.S. demands for the opening of Seoul 's markets to more American goods , saying trade issues would be `` resolved to mutual satisfaction . '' 
Per capita income rose 1.7 % to $ 13,120 
Britain 's Prime Minister Thatcher told a Commonwealth summit in Kuala Lumpur , Malaysia , that sanctions against South Africa were `` utterly irresponsible , '' officials said . 
Christian legislators are insisting on a Syrian troop pullout from Lebanon 
Charles S. Mitchell , a vice president with Homart Development Co. , the real estate development subsidiary of Sears , Roebuck & Co. , was named president of Figgie Properties , a real estate development unit . 
A spokeswoman said Dow is comfortable with Wall Street expectations that full-year earnings will total about $ 14.60 a share , compared with last year 's record net of $ 2.4 billion , or $ 12.76 a share . 
Dow would earn $ 14.85 a share for the year 
Dow officials were signaling that the company would earn less than $ 15 a share this year 
Whether or not `` great cases make bad-law '' -- as Justice Holmes asserted -- who can doubt that when great confirmation hearings turn on the nominee 's response to these great cases they make bad judicial history 
While the book amply justifies its subtitle , the title itself is dubious 
Perhaps because they won , Mr. Bork 's attackers come through more vividly than his defenders 
Harvard 's Laurence Tribe was the constitutional heavy , laying out legal strategies for the senators and witnesses to follow . 
Republican Sen. Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania engaged the nominee in a verbal contest aimed at showing that Mr. Bork was willing to stretch the Constitution in one area -LRB- free speech -RRB- 
Given Democratic frustration with the Reagan victories and Court appointments , the contingency plans in place , and Mr. Bork 's paper trail of vulnerable writings , it was pretty clear that Judge Bork never stood much chance of being confirmed . 
The nomination still might have been salvaged 
The nomination still might have been salvaged if a number of Democratic moderates in the South and Southwest had broken party lines . 
Mr. Bork 's opponents chose the battlefield , held it and kept it . 
Mr. Bork 's opponents chose the battlefield , held it and kept it . 
Probing more deeply into the doctrine of `` judicial restraint , '' he would have found a long history going back to the great decisions of Justice Holmes . 
Probing more deeply into the doctrine of `` judicial restraint , '' he would have found a long history going back to the great decisions of Justice Holmes . He would discover it also in Alexander Bickel , a subtle constitutional scholar , Mr. Bork 's closest friend at Yale , whose influence on the judge goes well beyond Mr. Bronner 's reporting . 
Unfortunately , Mr. Bork failed to distinguish between such pressures and the emergence of great issues critical to a society that must be settled judicially 
One can understand Mr. Bork 's fear that the new right to privacy will become intolerably stretched 
What is certain is that if Americans allow another happening like the degrading Bork confirmation circus , it will be at their peril 
If the investment bank can sell the securities at a higher price than it paid the issuer , it makes a profit 
If the investment bank can sell the securities at a higher price than it paid the issuer , it makes a profit . 
Normally , Sotheby 's would have earned 20 % of the total in commissions . 
Art dealers say that while auction houses occasionally guarantee the seller of a highly desirable work of art a minimum price , a financial commitment of this size is unprecedented 
Diana D. Brooks , president of Sotheby 's North America division , vehemently denies it offered the Dorrance heirs a money-back guarantee , calling such reports `` inaccurate . '' 
When Christie 's officials asked why the firm was n't picked to sell the Dorrance collection , representatives of the Dorrance family `` told us it was a question of financial considerations 
Collectors who have made their money on Wall Street have become an increasingly important part of the art business 
Collectors who have made their money on Wall Street have become an increasingly important part of the art business and their money has helped fuel the art boom 
In November 1987 , Sotheby 's essentially offered a Wall Street-style `` bridge loan '' of about $ 27 million to Australian businessman Alan Bond to enable him to purchase Vincent van Gogh 's `` Irises '' for $ 53.9 million . It was the highest bid in history for a work of art . 
But two weeks ago , Sotheby 's said that it has the painting under lock and key 
Sotheby 's is offering such deals 
`` There seems to be a lot of art for sale 
Instead , people familiar with the transaction said , the auction house opted to forgo that percentage in order to obtain the collection and in exchange for taking a bigger chunk of proceeds exceeding $ 100 million . 
The Dorrance family will still receive a substantial portion of the auction proceeds above $ 100 million , people familiar with the transaction said . 
The decision to put the entire collection on the block stunned many 
The decision to put the entire collection on the block stunned many , since Mr. Dorrance had served as chairman of the Philadelphia Museum of Art 
The decision to put the entire collection on the block stunned many , since Mr. Dorrance had served as chairman of the Philadelphia Museum of Art , and it had been assumed many of the works would be donated to the institution . 
While he adds that he has no problem with auction houses who sell works in which they have a financial interest , `` It ought not to be hidden in some small print 
In such situations , he says , the house `` is going to put the best light on things . '' 
Dealers and auction houses `` know if they do n't lay out a half a million for this , another one will 
A Christie 's spokeswoman said that while the auction house sometimes waives its seller 's commission to attract art works -- it still gets a commission from the buyer -- Christie 's wo n't offer financial guarantees 
A Christie 's spokeswoman said that while the auction house sometimes waives its seller 's commission to attract art works -- it still gets a commission from the buyer -- Christie 's wo n't offer financial guarantees 
A Christie 's spokeswoman said that while the auction house sometimes waives its seller 's commission to attract art works -- it still gets a commission from the buyer -- Christie 's wo n't offer financial guarantees because `` Christie 's believes its primary role is as an auction house 
Egon Krenz , the man tapped yesterday to become East Germany 's new leader , faces the same task that has fallen to neighboring socialist colleagues : reforming a country in crisis . 
Even if he were to change his stripes and become another Milton Friedman , however , he would still stand a good chance of losing a country 
Mr. Krenz , age 52 , is known as an old-guard ironfist , one likely to continue the method of running a country that the Berlin Wall made famous . 
Faced with another Mr. Honecker , so many despairing East Germans are likely to flee that the two German peoples will get their reunification , de facto , on West German ground . 
But if East Germany 's arthritic Politburo does loosen up enough to permit Mr. Krenz to make serious efforts at reform , he will face a challenge just as fundamental 
Of course East Germany , true to its tradition , could tighten its borders yet further . 
There have been some reports that Mr. Krenz is moving to `` soften '' his reputation , notably rumors that it was he who kept East Germany 's state police off protesters ' backs at the country 's dismal 40th anniversary celebrations earlier this month . 
But even if he effects a Hyde-to-Jekyll transformation , he will face a serious ideological crisis and Reunification Scenario Two 
When Poland moves to reform , it can at least lean on its past 
When Poland moves to reform , it can at least lean on its past : However flawed and short-lived Joseph Pilsudski 's interwar republic , it was a nonsocialist democracy . Czech reformers can recall the Wilsonian ideals of the same period in their country . Even the Soviet Union has Peter the Great to rediscover , should it choose to . 
If it goes capitalist , and increases trade with West Germany , it will convert itself , willy-nilly , into an economic annex of the Federal Republic 
Ideologues are the last to surrender 
Ideologues are the last to surrender , and Germans are an ideological people . 
Helmut Kohl 's governing conservative coalition is proving admirably true to the West German constitution by making more than 500,000 people of German descent automatic citizens this year alone . 
Politically , this currently is wisdom -- particularly given a nervous neighboring France . 
But it would be ironic 
INSURERS ARE FACING billions of dollars in damage claims from the California quake . 
Computer and software companies in the region are expecting virtually no long-term disruption in shipments . 
A bill giving the Transportation Department the power to block airline leveraged buy-outs cleared a House panel . 
The buy-back , which was n't a complete surprise , was announced 
British Airways said it is seeking improved terms and a sharply lower price in any revised bid for United Air 's parent . 
Stock prices rose slightly 
Stock prices rose slightly as trading slowed 
Stock prices rose slightly as trading slowed , while bonds ended little changed despite a slumping dollar . 
News of the major earthquake in California Tuesday triggered a round of dollar sales in early Asian trade 
While Mr. Woodland does n't predict a significant climb for the U.S. unit in light of recent moves in interest rates around the world , he noted that `` its downside potential is surprisingly and -- for dollar bulls -- `` impressively '' limited 
They say that the earthquake , by preventing many banks from operating at full capacity , has given the Fed an additional reason to keep liquidity at a high level . 
They note that the dollar remains extremely vulnerable to the slightest bad news from the stock exchange . 
Indeed , the U.S. unit edged lower 
A slight recovery in the stock market gave currency traders confidence to push the dollar higher 
If the figures show a hefty rise in inflation , they could militate against easing by the Fed 
Crude prices spurted upward in brisk trading on the assumption that heavy earthquake damage occurred to San Francisco area refinery complexes 
Crude prices spurted upward in brisk trading on the assumption that heavy earthquake damage occurred to San Francisco area refinery complexes , but the rise quickly fizzled 
For more than the past year , even the rumor of a major West Coast refinery shutdown has been enough to spark a futures rally 
For more than the past year , even the rumor of a major West Coast refinery shutdown has been enough to spark a futures rally because the gasoline market is so tight . 
But yesterday , as the morning wore on , some major West Coast refinery operators -- including Chevron Corp. , Exxon Corp. and the Shell Oil Co. unit of Royal Dutch\/Shell Group -- said their refineries were n't damaged and were continuing to operate normally 
Most said they shut down their petroleum pipeline operations as a precaution but did n't see any immediate damage . 
As the news spread that the refineries were intact , crude prices plunged 
`` One is the panic , the earthquake in San Francisco , which is positive . '' 
But once that factor was eliminated , traders took profits and focused on crude oil inventories 
After the market closed Tuesday , the American Petroleum Institute had reported that crude stocks increased by 5.7 million barrels in the week ended Friday , which traders viewed as bearish 
But once that factor was eliminated , traders took profits and focused on crude oil inventories , Mr. Barakat said . 
`` The problem is that while on the surface everything is all right , the question is , '' said Mr. Barakat , `` was there any structural damage to the pipelines or anything else 
According to one analyst , workers at the Cananea copper mine in Mexico , which has n't been operating 
The analyst said it will take about two to three months 
He added that , while there has n't been any official announcement as yet , the Highland Valley mine strike in British Columbia , which has lasted more than three months , is regarded as settled 
Another analyst said the Cananea return to operation may not be as near as some expect . 
The first analyst said that the Japanese , as well as the Chinese , bought copper earlier in the week in London 
The first analyst said that the Japanese , as well as the Chinese , bought copper earlier in the week in London , but that this purchasing has since slackened 
`` The focus for some time has been on the copper supply 
`` Now that the supply situation seems to be improving , it would be best for traders to switch their concentration to the demand side 
`` It 's known they need the sugar 
Feedlots fatten cattle for slaughter 
Feedlots fatten cattle for slaughter , so a drop indicates that the production of beef will dip this winter . 
The drug , which is still in the experimental phase , has n't been approved yet by the Food and Drug Admistration 
The drug , which is still in the experimental phase , has n't been approved yet by the Food and Drug Admistration , and its long-term effects are unknown . 
`` We 're shocked by it 
Researchers say they believe FK-506 is 100 times more effective than the traditional anti-rejection drug , cyclosporine , made by Swiss pharmaceutical giant Sandoz Ltd . 
Dr. Fung said that FK-506 would not be available in the market for at least a year 
Researchers could n't estimate the cost of the drug 
Researchers could n't estimate the cost of the drug when it reaches the market 
Dr. Starzl said the research has been largely financed by the National Institute of Health and by university funds 
`` We 've known for six months the effect of this drug 
According to Mr. Laband , `` screaming '' for price controls occurs 
According to Mr. Laband , `` screaming '' for price controls occurs when income redistribution `` threatens to hit home . '' 
According to Mr. Laband , `` screaming '' for price controls occurs when income redistribution `` threatens to hit home . '' 
Allowing uncontrolled prices for necessities would indeed shorten the lines at stores , as he contends . 
Allowing uncontrolled prices for necessities would indeed shorten the lines at stores , as he contends . 
But not because resources are going to their most efficient use , leaving scarce goods `` allocated to those buyers who place the highest value on them . '' 
Rather , lines would diminish 
It is inhumane to imply that a poor , unemployed woman can not receive immediate relief for her family at fair prices 
It is inhumane to imply that a poor , unemployed woman can not receive immediate relief for her family at fair prices because she does not have as much to protect as a rich family . 
These latter-day scalawags would be ill-advised to take advantage of the situation 
South Carolina deserves an A for its quick and timely relief efforts . 
They set up absurd situations , detached from reality 
I 'm surprised he did n't advocate letting people loot 
I 'm surprised he did n't advocate letting people loot , since that behavior can also be foreseen in a disaster 
Price controls were `` so fervently embraced by Charleston 
Mr. Laband described one of the more insidious threats we face 
Since he concentrated on the economic folly of such ordinances , he did n't mention certain other of their effects 
They divert law-enforcement resources at a time they are most needed for protecting lives and property . 
They divert law-enforcement resources at a time they are most needed for protecting lives and property . Also , rather than increase supplies , they reduce them and encourage hoarding . 
Would Mr. Laband also suggest that the Red Cross , Salvation Army , military units , police , fire departments , rescue units and individual citizens cease their efforts to assist Hugo 's victims 
Should they , too , stop `` messing with '' his free market ? 
What about those caring people all over the country who are donating food , water and other necessities of life to these people who could be any of us ? 
Mr. Laband should beware 
The businesses subscribing to Mr. Laband 's effective price system will be remembered 
Though the Cubs ' championship season ended with the National League playoffs , a revival of the Organic Theater 's production of `` Bleacher Bums , '' a play in nine innings set in the Wrigley Field bleachers , continues within spitting distance of the ballpark 
Though the Cubs ' championship season ended with the National League playoffs , a revival of the Organic Theater 's production of `` Bleacher Bums , '' a play in nine innings set in the Wrigley Field bleachers , continues within spitting distance of the ballpark . 
Each is more problematic than an unexpected divisional baseball championship 
Twenty-five years ago the poet Richard Wilbur modernized this 17th-century comedy merely by avoiding `` the zounds sort of thing , '' as he wrote in his introduction . 
The Wilbur translation is remarkable -- well worth a read and even better seen in the theater 
The Wilbur translation is remarkable -- well worth a read and even better seen in the theater if you ever have the opportunity . 
But if you happen to be coming to Chicago in the next few weeks , do n't fail to have a look at Robert Falls 's `` The Misanthrope '' at the Goodman 
If Mr. Wilbur 's translation is a finely ground lens through which we see the pettiness and corruption of 17th-century Paris , Mr. Falls 's production is a mirror in which we see ourselves 
If this version , with its references to Steven Spielberg , Spago and `` thirtysomething '' attracts younger audiences 
When `` The Homecoming '' was first produced on this side of the Atlantic , actors and directors were reverential 
Nobody smiled onstage 
This kind of theater was new to us . 
When `` The Homecoming '' was first produced on this side of the Atlantic , actors and directors were reverential . 
Encouraged by Mr. Wilder 's sly grins , embarrassed grimaces and sputtering rages , the audience gets the joke and begins to laugh 
Though it 's clearly Max 's wife who held sway here until her death , now none of the other male residents of this misbegotten household can challenge Max 
While Steppenwolf was in London with `` The Grapes of Wrath , '' Bruce Sagan , the president of its board of directors , quietly returned to Chicago to buy a piece of real estate in the city 's rapidly reviving North Halsted Street restaurant and theater district 
`` If we wanted to stage ` Death of a Salesman , ' `` Mr. Sagan says , `` Willie Loman would have to live in a ranch house because of the low ceiling 
His board members alone have pledged $ 800,000 
Mr. Sagan compares the importance of Steppenwolf with Orson Welles 's Mercury Theater in the '30s . 
What will Mr. Sagan do with his new theater building 
After enduring three days of heavy selling , the beleaguered Nasdaq over-the-counter market finally rebounded , rising sharply in hearty trading 
Among bigger stocks , the Nasdaq 100 Index rose 1 % , or 4.56 , to 453.05 
While the industrial average rallied on Monday following last Friday 's collapse , the OTC market , which did n't suffer too badly during the correction , tumbled 
As investors speculated about the long - and short-term implications , shares of a number of companies that might either profit or face problems because of the disaster were actively traded 
Insurance-related stocks were mixed 
Frank Gilmartin , a trader who follows insurance stocks for Fox-Pitt Kelton , said his strategy was to sell early . 
Then , if the stocks fell sharply , he planned to begin buying them aggressively 
Then , if the stocks fell sharply , he planned to begin buying them aggressively , on the theory that the companies that insure against property damage and accidents will have to raise rates eventually to compensate for the claims they will pay to earthquake victims and victims of last month 's Hurricane Hugo . 
Many investors expected damage from the hurricane to be the catalyst for higher rates in the industry , which has been depressed because of low rates arising from intense competition . 
`` Now , they 'll have to increase their coffers to protect for the future 
Safeco fell 1\/8 to 32 5\/8 on 462,900 shares . Ohio Casualty rose 1\/4 to 51 3\/4 on 137,200 shares . St. Paul Cos. jumped 2 to 59 3\/4 on 517,500 shares . Academy Insurance fell 1\/32 to 1 3\/16 ; but volume totaled 1.2 million shares . The Nasdaq Insurance Index jumped 4.15 to 529.32 on the day , while the barometer of big insurance and banking issues climbed 1.72 to 455.29 . 
Academy Insurance fell 1\/32 to 1 3\/16 
The Nasdaq Insurance Index jumped 4.15 to 529.32 on the day 
Traders were initially nervous about shares of companies , including many leading OTC computer companies , such as Apple Computer with offices in the vicinity of the area damaged by the quake . 
Apple Computer gained 1 to 48 1\/4 ; Ashton-Tate rose 3\/8 to 10 3\/8 . 
Apple Computer gained 1 to 48 1\/4 ; Ashton-Tate rose 3\/8 to 10 3\/8 . Intel also added 3\/8 to 33 7\/8 . 
But most of those stocks fared well . 
Chiron was up 1\/2 to 27 
Microsoft advanced 1 7\/8 to 80 1\/2 
In other earthquake-related news , Hambrecht & Quist 's OTC market makers were excused from trading yesterday 
In other trading , Medco Containment Services gained 7\/8 to 15 on 1.9 million shares 
Ciba-Geigy Ltd. and Chiron Corp. said they extended their offer for Connaught BioSciences Inc. , valued at 866 million Canadian dollars -LRB- US$ 736 million -RRB- to Oct. 27 . 
The companies earlier said they did n't want to raise their offer to match a rival bid by Institut Merieux S.A. of C$ 37 a share , or C$ 942 million . 
But they said the C$ 30-a-share bid , which was due to expire Monday 
Within minutes after the stock market closed Friday , I called Sen. Bill Bradley of New Jersey , advised him that the Dow Jones Industrial Average had declined by 190 points late that afternoon , and cheerfully informed him that he and his fellow Democrats were to blame 
They had dealt a major setback that afternoon to President Bush 's capital-gains tax cut proposal , which had seemed in the bag 
Sen. Bradley has it in his mind that such a tax cut would unravel the tax reform he helped engineer in 1986 . 
But he knows that as many as 20 of his fellow Democrats are disposed to vote for the cut , popular among their constituents . 
The budget reconciliation had to be dealt with by the Oct. 15 deadline 
It could throw in the towel and hope to win on capital gains late this month 
It could throw in the towel and hope to win on capital gains late this month , or it could follow the White House strategy , to veto reconciliation 
At noon Friday , a senior White House official advised Richard Rahn , the Chamber 's chief economist , that the White House would not agree to a budget reconciliation bill 
He left a message accusing Mr. Darman of selling out . 
The stock market reacted as Mr. Rahn did , crumbling 
If the tax on any gain to those assets was doubled , would n't the value fall to the owners of the assets 
Is n't it reasonable to assume that the asset you own would be worth more 
Is n't it reasonable to assume that the asset you own would be worth more if the government suddenly announced that if you sold it , you would be able to keep 30 % more of its gain than you previously believed 
Is n't it reasonable to assume that the asset you own would be worth more if the government suddenly announced that if you sold it , you would be able to keep 30 % more of its gain than you previously believed ? 
When Richard Rahn advised the financial press that the market crash was caused by the setback to capital gains , he was generally ignored and mildly ridiculed 
When Richard Rahn advised the financial press that the market crash was caused by the setback to capital gains , he was generally ignored and mildly ridiculed . 
Mr. Rahn was pointing out an elephant rumbling through Wall Street 
They are economists and financial reporters who sympathize with the view that a capital-gains tax cut benefits the rich . 
It would inevitably lead to an increase in marginal income-tax rates in 1990 
That is , with capital gains cut , the glue of the 1986 accord will be gone 
The counter-argument , which he has heard , is that if he and his fellow Democrats are successful in killing the president 's proposal , the revenue gap will open up tremendously in 1990 because of the weakened economy 
If Sen. Bradley would permit a vote on capital gains , though , it would pass , Christmas retail sales would be strong instead of burdened by a falling stock market , the 1990 economy would be robust , and the revenue gains at every level of government , including New Jersey 's , would be surprisingly high 
In this atmosphere , there would be no serious consideration of tax increases . 
If Sen. Bradley would permit a vote on capital gains , though , it would pass , Christmas retail sales would be strong instead of burdened by a falling stock market , the 1990 economy would be robust 
Two other defendants previously pleaded guilty 
The percent difference compares actual profit with the 30-day estimate where at least three analysts have issues forecasts in the past 30 days . 
Proceeds from the bonds , with coupon rates in the 8 % range , will be used to replace bonds with an average interest rate of 13.1 % . 
The bond issue is TVA 's first public offering since the Financing Bank was created in 1974 , primarily to finance the TVA . 
But the offering almost did n't happen . 
The TVA , in fact , decided to proceed with the bond offering following an agreement last week with the Financing Bank , which allows TVA to keep borrowing short term from the bank for two years 
Why did he add the Value Fund to the list ? 
`` Emerging growth stocks have n't been popular in America for years , they 've been neglected 
Mr. Templeton 's 147,300-share purchase in the closed-end fund came before the U.S. stock market 's plunge last Friday 
Mr. Templeton 's 147,300-share purchase in the closed-end fund came before the U.S. stock market 's plunge last Friday , but still proved slightly profitable . 
Mr. Sherry declined to comment 
James A. Toney , a vice president , sold 1,500 shares Aug. 28 . 
Mr. Sherry declined to comment when asked about the sales . 
The largest purchase was by Dudley Taft , who bought 4,400 shares for $ 125,075 . 
Mr. Taft , who is also president of Taft Broadcasting Co. , said he bought the shares 
`` Cincinnati Gas & Electric is in good shape 
`` Cincinnati Gas & Electric is in good shape , '' Mr. Taft said , and utilities are `` a good investment 
Glenn and Sharon Beebe of Cincinnati had sued the com - pany in 1981 
The Beebes alleged that toxic fumes from the carpets made them sick . As a result of their illness , the Beebes said , they lost $ 1.8 million in wages and earnings . 
The case had been closely watched 
Plaintiffs ' lawyers say that buildings become `` sick 
He said that ill effects from new carpets manifest themselves immediately 
Scientists are only beginning to understand what causes sick-building syndrome 
Scientists are only beginning to understand what causes sick-building syndrome and much of that research was unavailable 
The Beebes now believe that a prime culprit for their injuries was fumes from an adhesive used in the carpeting . 
But the Beebes did n't come to that conclusion 
State officials said the court 's ruling clears the way for proceedings to condemn buildings in the area . 
As part of the agreement with the state , the developers -- a partnership of Park Tower Realty and Prudential Insurance Co. of America -- said they would not proceed with condemnation proceedings 
Park Tower General Counsel Matthew Mayer said the development team will have to review two additional lawsuits 
Park Tower General Counsel Matthew Mayer said the development team will have to review two additional lawsuits before putting up a $ 155 million letter of credit to cover condemnation costs . 
A magistrate had initially refused the request , ruling that the attack had been a political act for which the man , Mahmoud El-Abed Ahmad , would be exempt from extradition . 
However , Judge Weinstein wrote in his opinion late last month that terrorism and acts of war against civilians can not be defined as political acts . 
THE YOM KIPPUR WAR , WHEN EGYPT CRASHED into Israel on Oct. 6 , 1973 , the holiest day in the Jewish calendar , lasted barely a month . 
Texas simply pumped harder . 
U.S. oil supplies , however , had peaked in 1970 and 1971 and by 1973 were declining . Imports , then six million barrels a day , came primarily from Venezuela and Canada . 
The U.S. did manage to supply the Dutch with oil by relabeling supplies ; once oil is shipped , no one can tell its source 
The U.S. did manage to supply the Dutch with oil by relabeling supplies ; once oil is shipped , no one can tell its source . 
But car-happy Americans panicked 
`` Shortage '' and `` crisis '' became buzz words 
The spot dislocations that showed up were largely the result of confusion -LRB- much of it in Washington 
The embargo lasted only six months 
Times may be tough on Wall Street for some 
Times may be tough on Wall Street for some , but a few bosses are making as much as ever -- or more . 
Because it operates on a fiscal year , Bear Stearns 's yearly filings are available much earlier than those of other firms 
The latest period includes 14 months instead of 12 
At Bear Stearns Cos. , for example , the 15 executive officers led by Chairman Alan `` Ace '' Greenberg got a pay increase to $ 35.9 million for the 14-month period ended June 30 from $ 22.9 million for the 12 months ended April 30 , 1988 . 
Meanwhile , Bear Stearns 's 650 stock and bond salesmen saw thinner paychecks over the past year , which the company says reflected lower commission revenue caused by a decline in investor activity in the markets . 
`` All of us are on a base salary of $ 200,000 if the firm makes nothing 
`` All of us are on a base salary of $ 200,000 if the firm makes nothing -- and that 's pretty low as far as Wall Street goes , '' Mr. Montgoris said . 
According to the proxy statement , James E. Cayne , 55 , Bear Stearns 's president , made $ 3.9 million ; an executive vice president , Michael L. Tarnopol , 53 , made nearly $ 3.4 million 
`` Just because a particular element of the firm is down , '' such as stockbrokerage , `` does n't mean the executive committee should be paid less 
Mr. Craven said his move to the chairmanship means he will take a less active role in the day-to-day management of the group 
Mr. Craven joined Morgan Grenfell as group chief executive in May 1987 
Morgan Grenfell Group PLC said John Craven , group chief executive officer , is taking over the chairmanship of the merchant banking group from Sir Peter Carey , who is retiring . 
News of Mr. Eward 's retirement comes 
Mr. Craven said both Messrs. Eward and Whittington had planned to leave the bank earlier 
Mr. Craven said both Messrs. Eward and Whittington had planned to leave the bank earlier , but Mr. Craven had persuaded them to remain 
`` If there 's any coincidence about the departures it 's that they are leaving at a time when the business is in reasonably good shape and going forward very well 
The bonds have received a rating of double-A-1 from Moody 's 
Par Pharmaceutical Inc. said it named its interim president and chief executive officer , Kenneth I. Sawyer , to those posts permanently , and elected him to the board . 
A Par spokesman said he understood the criminal investigation in Maryland relates to matters Par disclosed in July , when Par said it filed false drug information with the FDA . 
Par also said it was advised by the U.S. attorney for Maryland that it is one of a number of companies being investigated by a federal grand jury for alleged violations of the federal Food , Drug and Cosmetic Act . 
Also yesterday , Ashok Patel , a former Par official who pleaded guilty to providing an FDA employee an illegal gratuity of $ 3,000 , was sentenced by a federal judge in Baltimore to one year of community service and a $ 150,000 fine . 
That 's essentially what budget director Richard Darman is suggesting 
If human beings ca n't cut federal spending honestly -- and they ca n't -- let the computers do it 
If human beings ca n't cut federal spending honestly 
Congress , with a measure of White House complicity , has been manipulating the spending accounts for years under the cover of omnibus appropriations bills . 
We suspect voters are fed up with the finagling . 
Consider , for instance , that even yesterday 's widely publicized sequester is likely to be traduced 
Under the law , Gramm-Rudman 's across-the-board-cuts in federal programs are supposed to be permanent . 
`` Lawmakers have been saying for weeks that they plan to roll back the cuts 
Mr. Bush would be acting in the public interest 
If Washington 's elites ever succeed in bursting the tax dam , Americans will be engulfed in a red sea of new spending programs , such as federalized child care 
Others were the capital-gains cut , Section 89 repeal , the disabled workers bill , and the unprecedented reconsideration of the catastrophic health act . Child care was one of the many `` extraneous '' bills pulled out of the Senate 's reconciliation bill last Friday . 
All this stuff still is in the House 's 1,878-page reconciliation bill 
We have as much nostalgia as anyone for those leafy , breezy days in Washington when honorable men and women dickered over budgets and even log-rolled a bit to see that the bridges got build , roads paved , soldiers paid 
Those days are gone . 
Save the sequester 
Japanese investors , reassured by Monday 's strong rally on Wall Street , erased most of that day 's losses on the Tokyo Stock Exchange . 
In London , stocks closed lower in volatile trading 
Paris shares had a similar reaction 
Foreign investors reportedly started off selling 
`` Nothing has changed fundamentally in the Tokyo market . '' 
But even though Tokyo appears unharmed by recent market volatility , analysts and traders say there are still a few concerns on the horizon 
But even though Tokyo appears unharmed by recent market volatility , analysts and traders say there are still a few concerns on the horizon . 
In particular , Japanese investors will be keeping a wary eye on Wall Street to see whether Monday 's 88.12-point rally holds up 
Yesterday 's buyers favored real estate , construction and other large-capitalization issues , reflecting the fact that many Tokyo investors now feel safer with domestically oriented stocks , analysts said . 
They also are concerned about the persistent strength of the dollar against the yen 
They also are concerned about the persistent strength of the dollar against the yen , as a weaker yen leads to higher import prices in Japan and adds to domestic inflationary pressures . 
Among steel shares , NKK rose 19 to 705 yen -LRB- $ 4.97 -RRB- a share 
In the real estate sector , Mitsui Real Estate Development was up 100 at 2,760 
Prices opened strongly on the basis of Monday 's Wall Street rally and yesterday 's gains in Tokyo . 
But the advance faltered 
If you bought , you wish you had n't 
If you bought , you wish you had n't 
If you bought , you wish you had n't , and if you sold , you wish you had n't 
He said the current market `` is all about sentiment 
Dealers said London showed signs of calming in midafternoon 
Dealers said London showed signs of calming in midafternoon after Wall Street avoided sharp losses despite the trade report 
Dealers said London showed signs of calming in midafternoon after Wall Street avoided sharp losses despite the trade report , but a wave of futures-related selling later in the session sent buyers back to the sidelines . 
Still , some sectors found buying interest 
Hambros rose 5 to 204 
Jaguar shares jumped 23 
Brewery stocks were firm to higher on talk of early bargain-hunting 
Bass ended up 3 higher at 966 , Guinness closed at 589 , down 7 
Bass ended up 3 higher at 966 , Guinness closed at 589 , down 7 , and Scottish & Newcastle dropped 11 to 359 
British Gas finished at 197 , down 2 , on 13 million shares , British Petroleum fell 8 to 291 on 9.4 million shares 
The most active shares were major blue-chips , particularly oils and utilities such as British Gas and British Telecommunications . 
Also in active trading , British Steel fell 1 to 124 
Paris closed lower 
After all , they wo n't soon forget the stock bargains that became available after the October 1987 crash . 
But while they want to be on the alert for similar buying opportunities now , they 're afraid of being hammered by another terrifying plunge 
Called a `` married put , '' the technique is carried out by purchasing a stock 
Because a put option gives its owner the right , but not the obligation , to sell a fixed number of shares of the stock at a stated price on or before the option 's expiration date , the investor is protected against a sudden drop in the stock 's price 
Because a put option gives its owner the right , but not the obligation , to sell a fixed number of shares of the stock at a stated price on or before the option 's expiration date , the investor is protected against a sudden drop in the stock 's price . 
That 's 
That 's because the cost of buying put options eats into an investor 's profit 
`` This is the type of fire insurance you only buy 
`` You always want your house insured 
-- If the stock goes up in price between now and the put 's expiration date , the put will probably expire worthless 
The investor will be out the cost of the put , which is called the `` premium 
-- If the stock stays at the same price between now and the put 's expiration date , the investor 's loss will be limited to the cost of the put , less any amount realized from a closing sale of the put 
-- If the price of the stock declines , the put will increase in value 
Once the stock price is less than the exercise price , or `` strike price , '' of the put , the gain will match the loss on the stock dollar for dollar 
When a stock falls below the put 's strike price , the investor simply sells the stock at a loss and simultaneously sells the put at a profit 
When a stock falls below the put 's strike price , the investor simply sells the stock at a loss 
When a stock falls below the put 's strike price , the investor simply sells the stock at a loss and simultaneously sells the put at a profit . 
Though not reflected in the table , an investor should know that the cost of the option insurance can be partially offset by any dividends that the stock pays . 
For example , Tenneco Inc. pays a quarterly dividend of 76 cents , which would be received 
For example , Tenneco Inc. pays a quarterly dividend of 76 cents , which would be received before the February option expires 
There are more than 650 stocks on which options may be bought and sold , including some over-the-counter stocks . 
They can do this by purchasing `` index puts , '' which are simply put options on indexes that match broad baskets of stocks . 
Unlike options on individual issues , index options are settled only in cash 
Unlike options on individual issues , index options are settled only in cash , and no stock is ever tendered . 
But while index options are convenient , they have several disadvantages 
For one thing , an investor 's portfolio might not closely match the S&P 100 . 
For one thing , an investor 's portfolio might not closely match the S&P 100 . As a result , the OEX insurance may or may not fully protect an investor 's holdings in the event of a market decline . 
In addition , OEX options were suspended from trading last Friday afternoon 
In addition , OEX options were suspended from trading last Friday afternoon , after the stock-market sell-off got under way 
In addition , OEX options were suspended from trading last Friday afternoon , after the stock-market sell-off got under way and trading in the S&P-500 futures contract was halted . 
So an investor who wanted to realize a profit on OEX puts 
In addition , OEX options were suspended from trading last Friday afternoon , after the stock-market sell-off got under way and trading in the S&P-500 futures contract was halted . 
Normally , once the underlying investment is suspended from trading , the options on those investments also do n't trade 
Normally , once the underlying investment is suspended from trading 
Ultimately , whether the insurance provided by purchasing puts is worthwhile depends on the cost of the options . That cost rises in times of high market volatility . 
A call option is similar to a put 
That 's 
Selling a call option gives an investor a small buffer against a stock-market decline . 
But if the price of the stock rises above the strike price of the option , the stock is almost certain to be called away 
But if the price of the stock rises above the strike price of the option , the stock is almost certain to be called away . 
Hopes for quick enactment of pending deficit-reduction legislation faded 
House leaders had hoped to follow the Senate 's lead by getting an agreement from House committee chairmen under which they would drop items that would n't reduce the fiscal 1990 budget deficit from the House-passed bill 
House leaders had hoped to follow the Senate 's lead by getting an agreement from House committee chairmen under which they would drop items that would n't reduce the fiscal 1990 budget deficit from the House-passed bill before the negotiations with the Senate began . 
`` If there is any support for reducing the bill , it is conditioned on their desire to see them passed in another form 
White House Budget Director Richard Darman has said he would continue to press to keep the capital-gains provision in the final version of the bill 
Senate leaders had hoped to be able to send a compromise version of the measure to President Bush by the end of the week 
The bill must be enacted 
Under a proposed two-step amalgamation involving share swaps , ABM Gold Corp. , a gold exploration and management company , will merge with Neptune Resources Corp. , United Gold Corp. and Inca Resources Inc . 
Exports fell for the second month in a row 
`` This is one of the worst trade releases we 've had 
Like most analysts , Mr. Dennis was hesitant to read too much into one month 's numbers 
The Dow Jones Industrial Average tumbled more than 60 points 
The Dow Jones Industrial Average tumbled more than 60 points after the report 's release 
The trade report drew yet another unsettling parallel to October 1987 . 
In 1987 , however , the news was the latest in a string of disappointments on trade 
Commerce Secretary Robert Mosbacher called the worsening trade figures `` disappointing after two very good months . '' 
The bleak trade report was played down by the Bush administration . 
`` The figures today add further evidence to support the view that the improvement in the U.S. trade deficit has essentially stalled out at a level of about a $ 110 billion annual rate , '' said Jeffrey Scott , a research fellow at the Institute for International Economics here . 
`` That 's still an improvement over last year 
Exports declined for the second consecutive month in August , slipping 0.2 % to $ 30.41 billion , the Commerce Department reported . 
Not only was August 's deficit far worse than July 's 
Many economists contend that deep cuts in the U.S. budget deficit are needed 
That 's 
`` People are sick and tired of hearing about these deficits 
`` People are sick and tired of hearing about these deficits , but the imbalances are still there 
That 's because the budget deficit feeds an enormous appetite in this country for both foreign goods and foreign capital , overwhelming the nation 's capacity to export . 
Most economists expect the slowing U.S. economy to curb demand for imports . 
But they foresee little substantial progress in exports 
Mr. Jobs moved to remedy a couple of his computer 's drawbacks yesterday by lowering the entry-level price for a Next machine by $ 1,500 , or 23 % 
Mr. Jobs moved to remedy a couple of his computer 's drawbacks yesterday by lowering the entry-level price for a Next machine by $ 1,500 , or 23 % , if the buyer chooses a hard-disk drive as an alternative to Next 's optical-storage device . 
The hard drive , which is the storage device of choice for virtually every desktop computer user , also now will supplement Next 's futuristic optical device 
His Next computer , introduced about a year ago and aimed primarily at university computer users , sports snazzy graphics , digital sound , built-in networking and a sleek black design . 
The closely held company has n't disclosed sales . 
A computer with the optical device will still cost $ 6,495 
Optical-storage devices can handle very large amounts of data and make it far easier to edit film clips or audio recordings with a computer . 
But the technology , while reliable , is far slower than the widely used hard drives 
He said that the next generation of optical drives will be as fast as hard drives 
Next 's decision to rely on the more-established hard drive in every Next computer does n't signal a retreat from optical storage , said Mr. Jobs , who for years has said this technology will play a crucial role in the next decade . 
`` From the standpoint of being on the forefront of technology , this is a step backward , '' said Jerry W. Sprecher , a senior computing manager for the California state university system . 
`` But it will definitely boost Next 's sales . '' 
Universities , however , say Next 's prices must go even lower 
Universities , however , say Next 's prices must go even lower before large numbers of students purchase the machine . 
Most software is distributed on cheap floppy disks 
Most software is distributed on cheap floppy disks , but the Next computer does n't come with a device that reads them . 
Next 's computer also needs more software applications 
The red ink came as no surprise to Wall Street 
`` The success of a new product in the database line is needed . 
And while the company has n't made a definite statement , it now looks like that 's not going to be anytime soon 
Mr. Maxwell said unless the company can start shipments of the new product sometime this quarter , the fourth-quarter loss is likely to be `` comparable to the third quarter 's 
If the company can start to ship during this quarter , it could stem some , if not all of the red ink 
In a management restructuring , Thomas L. Ringer resigned as chairman , chief executive and a director 
In a management restructuring , Thomas L. Ringer resigned as chairman , chief executive and a director , while Israel Sheinberg resigned as a director . Mr. Sheinberg remains as executive vice president . Thomas M. Hurley and Robert A. Vanourek , who had been designated to take over Recognition 's top spots had Prospect 's tender offer succeeded , were named co-chief executives and directors . 
In addition , the agreement calls for Gilbert H. Lamphere , chairman of Prospect Group 's executive committee , to be named chairman of a restructured board that will include four new independent directors . 
As part of what a Recognition spokeswoman termed an `` amiable agreement , '' Prospect Group will wind up with control of top management posts and an increased stake in the maker of data management equipment . 
Prospect , a New York-based leveraged buy-out firm , also agreed to invest $ 15 million in Recognition 
As part of what a Recognition spokeswoman termed an `` amiable agreement , '' Prospect Group will wind up with control of top management posts and an increased stake in the maker of data management equipment . 
The Corsica and Beretta make up the highest-volume car line at Chevrolet 
Except to characterize its offer as `` fair and generous and in the best interests of Mesa shareholders , '' StatesWest declined to discuss details of its proposal 
Except to characterize its offer as `` fair and generous and in the best interests of Mesa shareholders , '' StatesWest declined to discuss details of its proposal . 
The former president of FirstSouth F.A. , a defunct Arkansas thrift , pleaded guilty to conspiring to inflate the institution 's earnings by concealing worthless loan guarantees . 
The former president of FirstSouth F.A. , a defunct Arkansas thrift , pleaded guilty to conspiring to inflate the institution 's earnings by concealing worthless loan guarantees . 
Nothing , I assumed , would be more hopelessly dated than a political satire on the Iran-Contra affair . 
Though the play clearly is framed around the events of Iran-Contra , it takes in the wide sweep of scandals over the past 30 years 
Though the play clearly is framed around the events of Iran-Contra , it takes in the wide sweep of scandals over the past 30 years . 
Not only are there camera operators on all sides 
As the story of `` Mastergate '' unfolds , we learn that the Internal Revenue Service confiscated one of the properties of a foreign financier who owes the government millions in taxes 
Supposedly the IRS will sell off the assets of MPI 
Supposedly the IRS will sell off the assets of MPI , but before it can , a lowly IRS agent is called into the hospital room of Wylie Slaughter , the dying head of the Central Intelligence Agency 
Daniel von Bargen is ramrod-stiff but totally assured as Major Battle , mixing just the right brand of self-righteousness and patriotism ; Jeff Weiss is fire , brimstone and teary-eyed emotionalism as the far-right senator who serves as a friendly interrogator of Major Battle ; Zach Grenier is maddeningly officious playing a succession of lawyers ; Joseph Daly has the perfect `` aw , shucks '' demeanor of George Bush in his portrayal of the vice president 
With one she is pregnant , with Major Battle she is knitting an American flag 
Though it 's clear that Mr. Gelbart 's sympathies do not lie with the far right , it 's also true that he is evenhanded in dispensing his satirical jabs , taking sharp aim at senators and congressmen of all stripes and particularly at the media 
Though it 's clear that Mr. Gelbart 's sympathies do not lie with the far right 
Though it 's clear that Mr. Gelbart 's sympathies do not lie with the far right , it 's also true that he is evenhanded in dispensing his satirical jabs , taking sharp aim at senators and congressmen of all stripes and particularly at the media . 
`` Mastergate '' is subtitled `` a play on words 
Mr. Gelbart also has fun with language . 
As the hearings begin , the self-important Sen. Bowman -LRB- Jerome Kilty -RRB- announces : `` Let me emphaticize one thing at the outset : We are not looking for hides to skin nor goats to scape 
The evening is short -- 95 minutes without an intermission 
The evening is short -- 95 minutes without an intermission -- but even so , as the play progresses the thrust of Mr. Gelbart 's satire loses its sharpness 
The evening is short -- 95 minutes without an intermission -- but even so , as the play progresses the thrust of Mr. Gelbart 's satire loses its sharpness 
The evening is short -- 95 minutes without an intermission -- but even so , as the play progresses the thrust of Mr. Gelbart 's satire loses its sharpness as his targets pop up ever more predictably . 
The Federal National Mortgage Association set up a three-member office of the chairman and elected James A. Johnson as vice chairman , effective Jan. 1 . 
The penthouse elevator started up from the Gutfreund landing 
Eventually , Mr. Postel broke his toe in the dark . 
The Postels did not give permission . 
Before the Gutfreunds finally left this unfriendly environment for a prodigious duplex on Fifth Avenue and an 18th-century mansion with a specially excavated $ 1 million garage in Paris , the Postels had obtained an injunction to prevent any future hoisting of trees , and in a neighborly spirit hit both the Gutfreunds and the building with a $ 35 million lawsuit 
The young John Gutfreund had been discovered by Billy Salomon of Salomon 
Rising in the firm , he became powerful and bland 
After he had been head of the company for 3 1\/2 years , he and his partners sold it to Phibro , a powerful commodity trading outfit , for $ 550 million in Phibro stock 
Limited partner Billy Salomon , whose family name had been on the firm 's door for 70 years 
Mr. Gutfreund collected $ 32 million 
Mr. Gutfreund collected $ 32 million , while Billy Salomon got $ 10 million , much less than if he had conducted the sale . 
`` The New Crowd '' by Judith Ramsey Ehrlich and Barry J. Rehfeld -LRB- Little , Brown , 444 pages , $ 19.95 -RRB- , describes the displacing of the old `` our crowd '' Jewish Wall Street banking grandees by such new business barons as Saul Steinberg , Carl Icahn , Sanford Weill and Bruce Wasserstein . 
Often the genteel , conservative , long-term-oriented investment bankers were displaced by crude traders : `` When angered , he cursed so forcefully that his face reddened and his pale-blue eyes narrowed into tiny slits 
Often the genteel , conservative , long-term-oriented investment bankers were displaced by crude traders : `` When angered , he cursed so forcefully that his face reddened 
They were old-fashioned elegant gentlemen , who happened to be of German Jewish extraction . 
The cuckoo prefers the nests of other birds and heaves out their eggs . 
But the old guard hired the New Crowd people : It brought in its own cuckoos . 
So , as the Old Crowd toppled from the branch , it should n't have been too surprised 
So , as the Old Crowd toppled from the branch , it should n't have been too surprised . 
Second , a long-term shareholder of a good company need n't worry too much 
Second , a long-term shareholder of a good company need n't worry too much when the stock price drops temporarily : It will bounce back . 
But if a raider takes over when the stock is weak , the shareholder never gets his recovery 
But if a raider takes over 
The earlier generation of `` our crowd '' bankers -- Belmonts , Warburgs , Lehmans , Baches and Schiffs -- had stressed above all probity , tradition , continuity and reputation . 
The book is patronizing about this nouveau riche struggle for respectability , which has its tawdry aspects . 
If those who have the money do n't get involved with the museums and the charities 
The glitzy office that Ivan Boesky vacated for a prison cell 
The Old Crowd is deeply concerned by the backlash from all this . 
It has always been true that those outside the club want to climb in 
In a generation or two some of the New Crowd may attain true respectability 
In a generation or two some of the New Crowd may attain true respectability , perhaps to be displaced in turn by a later flock of unscrupulous raptors . 
Or perhaps Wall Street , when it has suffered enough , will realize that finance is a service industry 
Earlier this week , Mr. Simmons objected to published reports quoting him as saying he planned to sell his Lockheed stake 
Valhi said the articles did n't accurately reflect Valhi and its affiliates ' intentions toward Lockheed . 
U.S. exports to Canada jumped 11.2 % in August from July 
U.S. exports to Canada jumped 11.2 % in August from July while U.S. imports from Canada rose only 2.7 % . 
Some tariffs were eliminated 
For such businessmen , the Canadian government is organizing 55 missions this year to U.S. states bordering on Canada . 
Gold Texas is based in Vancouver , British Columbia 
Bank of New England Corp. , seeking to streamline its business after a year of weak earnings and mounting loan problems , said it will sell some operations and lay off 4 % of its work force . 
Some $ 170 million of the $ 233 million increase in nonperforming loans was related to real estate , and roughly three-quarters of that was in the troubled New England market , according to Richard Driscoll , vice chairman 
Mr. Connolly noted that net third-quarter charge-offs , at $ 63 million , improved slightly from the $ 67 million in the second quarter . 
The latest month 's figures show that imports of steel from European Community nations fell to 466,000 tons from 481,000 a month earlier 
In August , soon after Wang Laboratories Inc. reported a staggering $ 424.3 million loss and replaced its president , two Boston sales representatives sent customers a letter saying : `` We fully expect that you will soon be reading stories in the press reporting the ` Amazing Comeback at Wang 
How soon Wang will stage a comeback 
In August , soon after Wang Laboratories Inc. reported a staggering $ 424.3 million loss and replaced its president , two Boston sales representatives sent customers a letter saying : `` We fully expect that you will soon be reading stories in the press reporting the ` Amazing Comeback at Wang . ' '' 
How soon Wang will stage a comeback , or if it will at all , are still matters of debate . 
`` If your prospect is feeling risk the whole time and you 're not feeling as if you 're backed up by a stable company , you 've lost it before you 've begun 
`` If your prospect is feeling risk the whole time 
`` If your prospect is feeling risk the whole time and you 're not feeling as if you 're backed up by a stable company , you 've lost it 
Consider the difficulties faced by Audi salespeople 
`` It 's very important that we exude confidence 
`` It 's very important that we exude confidence , even though within the family we know there 's a lot of hard work ahead , '' said Richard Miller , the Lowell , Mass. , computer concern 's new president , in a video message to salespeople 
Last year it funded its high employment by heavy borrowing 
Last year it funded its high employment by heavy borrowing , and it suffered huge losses 
After the company reported red ink for the fiscal third quarter , Wang 's marketing department provided the sales force answers to questions such as `` How could you not have known you were going to lose $ 55 million ? '' and `` Is Wang still a viable company 
After the company reported red ink for the fiscal third quarter , Wang 's marketing department provided the sales force answers to questions such as `` How could you not have known you were going to lose $ 55 million 
`` That 's antithetical to the art of selling . '' 
At one sales strategy meeting , an executive suggested ordering salespeople to become experts on the annual report . 
Instead , he says , if the salespeople can get the customers to consider Wang 's products on their merits , he or a top financial officer will try to assuage the fears about finances 
Numerous computer companies are having sales slumps and earnings declines 
Although Wang will report a loss for the first quarter ended Sept. 30 and the full fiscal year , Mr. Miller says he expects the company will return to profitability by the fourth quarter 
`` If a salesman jeopardizes his credibility in this time of trouble , it will be a problem for the long run 
`` If a salesman jeopardizes his credibility in this time of trouble , it will be a problem for the long run , '' says George Palmatier , a Minden , Nev. , sales consultant and author of `` The Marketing Edge . '' 
`` Before the really bad news , we were looking at Wang fairly seriously , '' she says . 
Wang 's overall product line is `` still not as good as other vendors 
`` They were on the road to recovery in terms of customer attitudes 
Wang 's installed base is one of its greatest assets 
The first priority for Wang 's sales force is to make sure it holds on to existing customers . 
But even before Wang 's latest financial troubles surfaced , some customers `` were trying to wall off their Wang installations '' so other departments would n't add Wang 
But even before Wang 's latest financial troubles surfaced , some customers `` were trying to wall off their Wang installations 
One Wang salesman who left the company in July recalls that when he tried to sell products to Eastman Kodak , he worked `` to muster support from internal allies 
One Wang salesman who left the company in July recalls that when he tried to sell products to Eastman Kodak , he worked `` to muster support from internal allies , '' but `` those allies became skeptical as they saw the downtrend . 
One Wang salesman who left the company in July recalls that when he tried to sell products to Eastman Kodak , he worked `` to muster support from internal allies , '' but `` those allies became skeptical 
Consultants say that Wang 's technology is among the best available in the image market . 
`` When they were making the decision , all hell broke loose with the finances 
`` When a company realizes that , it 's hard to go with Wang 
It 's a tough thing 
`` The problem is , if people get down in the dumps , they stop selling 
Paul Hellman , a Framingham , Mass. , sales and management consultant and author of `` Ready , Aim , You 're Hired , '' says : `` The bad news is , you 'll be rejected more . The good news is , it 's not your fault . '' 
So , he advises , make goals achievable . 
For instance , he suggests that salespeople making telephone calls should say to themselves : `` All I want to do today is get 50 rejections . '' 
Pretax operating profit from telephone operations rose 8.2 % 
Revenue in the telecommunications products and services unit rose 27 % to $ 728.8 million 
Operating profit grew 57 % to $ 269 million from $ 171 million 
We think revenue will continue to grow 
We think revenue will continue to grow and that we can control costs 
The company reported a 3.1 % increase in the number of access lines in service 
The company said that the number of access lines dropped slightly in the quarter , a decline attributed to seasonal fluctuations . 
Chairman D.H. Hibbard said the company has set a new five year goal of doubling revenues to about $ 1.8 billion 
Great American said it increased its loan-loss reserves by $ 93 million 
In addition to the increased reserve , the savings bank took a special charge of $ 5 million representing general and administrative expenses from staff reductions and other matters 
On a day some United Airlines employees wanted Mr. Wolf fired 
On a day some United Airlines employees wanted Mr. Wolf fired and takeover stock speculators wanted his scalp , Messrs. Wolf and Pope saw their prospective personal fortunes continue to plummet 
When bank financing for the buy-out collapsed last week , so did UAL 's stock 
Even if the banks resurrect a financing package at $ 250 a share , the two executives would still get about $ 25 million less than they stood to gain in the initial transaction 
He left his last two jobs at Republic Airlines and Flying Tiger with combined stock-option gains of about $ 22 million 
He left his last two jobs at Republic Airlines and Flying Tiger with combined stock-option gains of about $ 22 million , and UAL gave him a $ 15 million bonus 
United paid him a $ 375,000 bonus to lure him away from American Airlines 
Of the combined $ 114.4 million the two men were scheduled to reap under the buy-out , they agreed to invest in the buy-out just $ 15 million , angering many of the thousands of workers asked to make pay concessions 
In a statement , US Facilities said Mr. Percival 's employment contract calls for him to act as a consultant to the company for two years . 
In a statement , US Facilities said Mr. Percival 's employment contract calls for him to act as a consultant to the company for two years . He will also remain a director , US Facilities said , but wo n't serve on any board committees . 
Merck & Co. reported a 25 % increase in earnings ; Warner-Lambert Co. 's profit rose 22 % 
Mevacor , Merck 's new cholesterol-lowering drug , had higher sales than any other prescription medicine has ever achieved in the U.S. in the year following introduction , the company said . 
Prescription-drug world-wide sales rose 9 % in the quarter to $ 340 million ; U.S. sales rose 15 % . World-wide sales of Warner-Lambert 's non-prescription health-care products , such as Halls cough tablets , Rolaids antacid , and Lubriderm skin lotion , increased 3 % to $ 362 million in the third quarter ; U.S. sales rose 5 % . 
Mr. Mark attributed the earnings growth to strong sales in Latin America , Asia and Europe . 
Analysts estimate Colgate 's sales of household products in the U.S. were flat for the quarter 
`` If you could say their business in the U.S. was mediocre , but great everywhere else , that would be fine 
`` If you could say their business in the U.S. was mediocre , but great everywhere else , that would be fine , '' says Bonita Austin , an analyst with Wertheim Schroder & Co . 
`` We 've done a lot to improve -LCB- U.S. . -RCB- results 
H. Anthony Ittleson was elected a director of this company , which primarily has interests in radio and television stations , increasing the number of seats to five . 
Maybe so 
Beantown scribes , who spare no invective 
Mr. Barnicle reminded readers that he still has n't forgiven Globe management for questioning a $ 20 expense chit he submitted for parking his car 
Rival Boston Herald columnist Howie Carr , who usually rails at Statehouse `` hacks '' and nepotism , argued that the new drawings were designed to hide Mr. Madden 's `` rapidly growing forehead '' and the facial defects of `` chinless '' Dan Shaughnessy , a Globe sports columnist . 
I bow to no one in my regard for our terrestrial heritage 
The Internal Revenue Service plans to restructure itself more like a private corporation . 
In addition , the tax-collecting agency says that it will take the unusual step of looking to the private sector to fill two new high-level positions to guide the 120,000-employee agency : a comptroller to oversee daily finances and a chief information officer to update the information system , which includes probably the largest computer data base in the world . 
`` My assessment and everyone 's assessment is that we do not have the kinds of information that let us responsibly and effectively formulate and execute our budget , '' Mr. Goldberg said . 
The IRS operates on a computer system designed in 1961 , which it has been trying to modernize for years . 
`` I think that you will see a significant improvement in the budget formulation and execution process 
Customarily , it would appoint career civil servants from within the agency 
Although the jobs will probably pay between $ 70,000 and $ 80,000 a year , IRS officials are confident that they can attract top-notch candidates from the private sector 
When Maj. Moises Giroldi , the leader of the abortive coup in Panama , was buried , his body bore several gunshot wounds , a cracked skull and broken legs and ribs 
He is now changing the place he sleeps every night , sometimes more than once a night . His meals are most often prepared by women he trusts -- his full-time mistress , Vicky Amado , and her mother , Norma . 
In the two weeks since the rebellion , which the U.S. hesitantly backed , Mr. Noriega has been at his most brutal - and efficient - in maintaining power . 
Before American foreign policy set out to destroy Noriega , it helped create him out of the crucible of Panama 's long history of conspirators and pirates 
For most of the past 30 years , the marriage was one of convenience . 
In 1960 , for example , when Mr. Noriega was both a cadet at an elite military academy in Peru and a spy-in-training for the U.S. Defense Intelligence Agency , he was detained by Lima authorities for allegedly raping and savagely beating a prostitute , according to a U.S. Embassy cable from that period . 
The U.S. has befriended 
The 55-year-old Mr. Noriega is n't as smooth as the shah of Iran , as well-born as Nicaragua 's Anastasio Somoza , as imperial as Ferdinand Marcos of the Philippines or as bloody as Haiti 's Baby Doc Duvalier . 
And out of necessity : The U.S. can make mistakes 
And out of necessity : The U.S. can make mistakes and still hope to remove him from power 
Mr. Noriega might have fallen of his own weight in 1988 because of Panama 's dire economic situation 
It is easy to fight 
Tony was four years older than most of his fellow cadets , and gained admission to the academy 
Mr. Noriega had learned that a local union leader was sleeping with the wife of his deputy . 
He was superb . 
Noriega was an expert at bribing and blackmailing people . '' 
During his years in Chiriqui , however , Mr. Noriega also revealed himself as an officer as perverse as he was ingenious . 
Some American officers interpreted his eagerness and studiousness as a sign of loyalty 
He rose to chief of intelligence in Panama 's socalled G-2 in 1970 
When U.S. diplomats complained to the CIA of Col. Noriega 's moonlighting , intelligence experts always insisted that his allegiance was first to the Americans 
`` Some of us wondered how our intelligence people could put so much stock in his information 
The head of the DEA at the time , John Ingersoll , scotched the assassination plan . 
But he did fly to Panama to scold dictator Torrijos on the drug ties of Panamanian officials , including Mr. Noriega . 
For the first time , the U.S. considered cutting Mr. Noriega from its intelligence payroll 
`` In the world of intelligence , if you want to get information , you get it from seedy characters 
The question is how much you get tied in with seedy characters 
They included one of Mr. Noriega 's closest friends and business partners , Carlos Wittgreen . 
And the investigators were quickly closing in on Mr. Noriega himself . 
Dade County and federal authorities , learning that he intended to fly through Miami , made plans to arrest him on the gun-running charges 
Their original indictment against Mr. Wittgreen , the friend of Mr. Noriega , and the other four was dismissed on a technicality . 
After prodding from Mr. Sanford , U.S. Attorney Jack Eskenazi pleaded with Justice Department officials in Washington to let the indictment proceed 
`` Unfortunately , '' Mr. Eskenazi wrote in a letter , `` those of us in law enforcement in Miami find ourselves frequently attempting to enforce the laws of the United States 
The letter , along with a detailed prosecution memo , sat on the desks of Justice officials for months 
`` I think if we had been allowed to go ahead 
Soon , the military became a veritable mafia controlling legal and illegal businesses . 
Although working for U.S. intelligence , Mr. Noriega was hardly helping the U.S. exclusively 
He allegedly entered into Panama 's first formal business arrangement with Colombian drug bosses , according to Floyd Carlton , a pilot who once worked for Mr. Noriega 
He allegedly entered into Panama 's first formal business arrangement with Colombian drug bosses , according to Floyd Carlton , a pilot who once worked for Mr. Noriega and who testified before the U.S. grand jury in Miami 
Although working for U.S. intelligence , Mr. Noriega was hardly helping the U.S. exclusively . 
But Mr. Noriega was convinced the Reagan White House would n't act against him 
Mr. Blandon says the general allowed the Contras to set up a secret training center in Panama . 
Mr. Blandon says the general allowed the Contras to set up a secret training center in Panama . Mr. Noriega also conveyed intelligence from his spy operation inside the Nicaraguan capital of Managua . 
Although , his help for the Contra cause was limited , it was enough to win him important protectors in the Reagan administration 
As Mr. Noriega 's political troubles grew , so did his offers of assistance to the Contras , an apparent attempt to curry more favor in Washington 
As Mr. Noriega 's political troubles grew , so did his offers of assistance to the Contras , an apparent attempt to curry more favor in Washington . 
For instance , he helped steal the May 1984 Panamanian elections for the ruling party . 
For instance , he helped steal the May 1984 Panamanian elections for the ruling party . 
As Mr. Noriega 's political troubles grew , so did his offers of assistance to the Contras , an apparent attempt to curry more favor in Washington . 
Mr. Noriega was accused of ordering in 1985 the beheading of Hugo Spadafora , his most outspoken political opponent and the first man to publicly finger Mr. Noriega on drug trafficking charges . 
He then ousted President Nicholas Ardito Barletta , a former World Bank official with close ties to the 
Mr. Noriega was accused of ordering in 1985 the beheading of Hugo Spadafora , his most outspoken political opponent and the first man to publicly finger Mr. Noriega on drug trafficking charges . He then ousted President Nicholas Ardito Barletta , a former World Bank official with close ties to the U.S. , after Mr. Barletta tried to create a commission to investigate the murder . 
Mr. Noriega 's proposal was turned down . 
`` I do n't think we created him 
Yesterday 's edition provided analysts ' estimates for the company 
The Federal Reserve Board said output of the nation 's factories , mines and utilities expanded at an annual rate of 1.3 % in the third quarter , substantially slower than the 3.3 % annual rate in the second quarter . 
Factory output dropped 0.2 % , its first decline since February 
The drop is particularly large for white males 
The drop is particularly large for white males 
Lung-cancer mortality rates for people under 45 years of age have begun to decline , federal researchers report . 
A report in this week 's issue of the Journal of the National Cancer Institute also projects that overall U.S. mortality rates from lung cancer , the leading cause of cancer death , should begin to drop in several years 
The report , which comes 
The death rate from lung cancer of white males aged 35 to 44 in the mid-1970s was 13.4 per 100,000 
The report , which comes 25 years after the U.S. Surgeon General issued a report warning against the dangers of smoking , is the strongest indication to date that the reduction in smoking is leading to lower death rates from lung cancer . 
Although lung-cancer mortality rates are increasing for the nation as a whole , the report projects that death rates will begin to decline in the 1990s for men and after the year 2000 for women 
Lung-cancer mortality rates increase with age and are continuing to rise for all age groups over 55 , with sharp increases for everybody but white men . 
But Dr. Fraumeni , one of the authors of the report , said `` the declining rates we 're seeing for younger people we believe may be a harbinger of declining mortality in the future . '' 
`` Even though these favorable trends in lung-cancer mortality affect all sex and race groups , they ca n't be taken for granted 
An editorial in the NCI Journal says the report of declining lung-cancer mortality `` among young men and women in the U.S. indicates that we finally may be winning the battle -- this even in a country where the tobacco industry spends over $ 2 billion a year for promotion of the addictive habit of smoking . '' 
While nearly equal percentages of black and white women currently smoke , in both sexes more whites have given up smoking than blacks 
After gaining strength during a brief run-up when trading began , the Nasdaq Composite Index weakened under selling pressure 
After gaining strength during a brief run-up 
During the last two hours of trading , the composite almost drew even on the day 
`` Every time you thought it was going into a rally it gave up 
`` Everybody 's confused 
Program trading is `` benefiting a few to the detriment of many 
Of the 4,345 stocks that changed hands , 1,174 declined 
The stock , which finished Monday at 29 1\/2 , traded as high as 29 3\/4 and as low as 28 3\/4 
The stock tumbled 2 3\/4 on news that it might have to take a charge against earnings 
The wholesaler of cash and carry merchandise reported fiscal fourthquarter earnings that were better than analysts had expected . 
The wholesaler of cash and carry merchandise reported fiscal fourthquarter earnings that were better than analysts had expected . 
Intermec , a maker of optical character-recognition devices , also reported higher third-quarter earnings . 
MCI Communications tumbled 2 5\/8 to 42 3\/8 on 4.7 million shares 
CoreStates Financial slipped 3\/8 to 43 1\/8 in active trading 
CoreStates Financial slipped 3\/8 to 43 1\/8 in active trading after reporting that third-quarter earnings improved to $ 1.27 a share from $ 1.15 a share a year earlier . 
A&W Brands lost 1\/4 to 27 . 
Robert M. Jelenic , 39 , was named president and chief operating officer of this closely held publisher . 
Robert M. Jelenic , 39 , was named president and chief operating officer of this closely held publisher . In addition , Ralph Ingersoll II , 43 , chairman and chief executive , said he would take on additional responsibilities as editor in chief of the company . 
It started with improvements in hygiene made possible by affordable soap and washable underwear during the Industrial Revolution . 
Medicine in the 19th century was dedicated mostly to combating sepsis and diagnostic analysis . 
New Environmentalism probably started in 1962 with the publication of Rachel Carson 's book `` Silent Spring . '' 
Writing in the 1960s Ms. Carson suggested that the human race could be eliminated in 20 years 
Thousands of chemical products were categorized as carcinogenic , with recommendations that they be banned from industrial use 
Shortly thereafter , hysterical articles began to appear predicting that advanced industrial societies would produce a blackened , uninhabitable planet possibly by the turn of the century . 
Local pollution problems require cheap energy and capital for their solution . 
But the New Environmentalists oppose private wealth creation -LRB- which , they claim , depletes natural resources -RRB- and nuclear power 
The point was to answer the question in the conference title , not to try to create news stories for the event itself . 
Nor was it intended to dictate a set of prescriptive solutions 
Each scientist independently concluded society and government are underreacting 
If the media decide to work harder at educating the public about these complex and technical issues , that hardly can be termed non-objective journalism 
The problems of the environment are so interrelated , so inextricably entwined with our current way of life and so large that it is unlikely we will be able to address them effectively 
The results met estimates of analysts , who had already slashed their projections 
Third-quarter revenue was flat at $ 1.02 billion . 
The volume is well below the industry 's 4 % to 5 % growth rate of recent years , but in line with other soft-drink companies for the third quarter . 
Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc. , fulfilling its dismal earnings forecast for 1989 , said its third-quarter net income fell 68 % on flat revenue . 
Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc. , fulfilling its dismal earnings forecast for 1989 , said its third-quarter net income fell 68 % on flat revenue . 
This year , a number of retail leveraged buyouts have failed , causing jitters among suppliers 
NBC , a leader in morning , prime-time and late night programs but an also-ran on Saturday mornings , when children rule the TV set , is contemplating getting out of the cartoon business . 
`` There is talk of some revamping 
NBC 's options could range from news-oriented programming to sports shows 
`` We feel there is an opportunity for an audience that is not being served by any network 
An NBC spokesman says the network will `` closely monitor '' the Sacramento situation 
Rohm & Haas , which plans to start operating seven new production units this year , attributed the profit slide partly to higher start-up expense . 
The company also cited the stronger dollar , which cuts the value of overseas profit 
Rohm & Haas , which plans to start operating seven new production units this year , attributed the profit slide partly to higher start-up expense . The company also cited the stronger dollar , which cuts the value of overseas profit when it is translated into dollars . 
In addition , the company said , it was hurt by higher than previous-year costs for raw materials 
In addition , the company said , it was hurt by higher than previous-year costs for raw materials , though those costs have declined since the second quarter . 
In this article , I was alleged to have said , `` Any patient with high-risk colon cancer is really getting short shrift 
I did n't say this 
With this treatment we have reduced deaths in high-risk colon cancer by one-third 
I feel any patient with high-risk cancer is getting short shrift 
We have very exciting prospects for far more impressive advances in the treatment of colon cancer during the years immediately ahead . 
This hope , however , will never be realized 
Officials of the Big Three auto makers and 14 petroleum companies said they are setting out to find the most cost-effective fuel for reducing cities ' air-pollution problems , with no bias toward any fuel in particular . 
However , their search notably wo n't include natural gas or pure methanol -- the two front-running alternative fuels -- in tests to be completed by next summer . 
Instead , the tests will focus heavily on new blends of gasoline , which are still undeveloped 
While major oil companies have been experimenting with cleaner-burning gasoline blends for years , only Atlantic Richfield Co. is now marketing a lower-emission gasoline for older cars currently running on leaded fuel 
`` The whole idea here is the automobile and oil companies have joint customers , '' said Keith McHenry , a senior vice president of technology at Amoco Corp . 
`` The whole idea here is the automobile and oil companies have joint customers , '' said Keith McHenry , a senior vice president of technology at Amoco Corp . `` And we are looking for the most cost-effective way to clean up the air . '' 
Oil and auto companies supported a move on Capitol Hill last week to gut Mr. Bush 's plans to require auto makers to begin selling alternative-fueled cars by 1995 . 
Instead , a House subcommittee adopted a clean-fuels program 
The Bush administration has said it will try to resurrect its plan 
Mr. Seidman , who has been the nation 's top bank regulator , inherited the problems of Lincoln 
He made his comments before House Banking Committee hearings to investigate what appears to be the biggest thrift disaster in a scandal-ridden industry . 
The inquiry also will cover the actions of Charles Keating Jr. , who is chairman of American Continental Corp. , Lincoln 's parent 
When Lincoln was seized by the government , for example , 15 % of its loans , or $ 250 million , were to borrowers who were buying real estate from one of American Continental 's 50 other subsidiaries , according to Mr. Seidman 
`` My staff indicated that had we made such findings in one of our own institutions , we would have sought an immediate cease-and-desist order to stop the hazardous operations , '' Mr. Seidman said . 
`` My staff indicated that had we made such findings in one of our own institutions , we would have sought an immediate cease-and-desist order to stop the hazardous operations , '' Mr. Seidman said . 
Leonard Bickwit , an attorney in Washington for Mr. Keating , declined to comment on the hearings 
Lincoln 's treatment by former thrift regulators , in an agency disbanded by the new law , has proved embarrassing for five senators who received thousands of dollars in campaign contributions from Mr. Keating . 
Mr. Seidman said yesterday , for example , that Sen. Dennis DeConcini -LRB- D. , Ariz. -RRB- , who received $ 48,100 in contributions from Mr. Keating , phoned Mr. Seidman to request that he push for a sale of Lincoln 
After the government lawsuit was filed against Lincoln , Sen. DeConcini returned the campaign contributions 
The senator 's spokesman said yesterday that he pushed for the sale of Lincoln 
After the government lawsuit was filed against Lincoln , Sen. DeConcini returned the campaign contributions . 
Senate Banking Committee Chairman Donald Riegle -LRB- D. , Mich . -RRB- has also returned contributions he received from Mr. Keating a year ago . 
House Banking Committee Chairman Henry Gonzalez -LRB- D. , Texas -RRB- said Sen. Cranston volunteered to appear before the House committee 
House Banking Committee Chairman Henry Gonzalez -LRB- D. , Texas -RRB- said Sen. Cranston volunteered to appear before the House committee , if necessary . 
At the hearing , Mr. Seidman said the RTC has already pumped $ 729 million into Lincoln for liquidity . 
In July , Eastern and its creditors agreed on a reorganization plan that called for Eastern to sell $ 1.8 billion in assets 
In July , Eastern and its creditors agreed on a reorganization plan that called for Eastern to sell $ 1.8 billion in assets and to emerge from bankruptcy-law protection at two-thirds its former size . 
But after selling off pieces such as its East Coast shuttle , its Philadelphia hub and various planes , Eastern hit a stumbling block 
But after selling off pieces such as its East Coast shuttle , its Philadelphia hub and various planes , Eastern hit a stumbling block . It could n't sell its South American routes , one of the major assets marked for disposal . 
Eastern ultimately decided it would have to keep and operate the routes itself , which would leave it with less cash for its reorganization . 
Since then , Eastern has been negotiating with creditors over revisions 
Ernst & Young said Eastern 's plans will miss its projections of earnings before interest , tax and depreciation by $ 100 million 
The experts said they expected Eastern would have to issue new debt to cover its costs 
The experts said they expected Eastern would have to issue new debt to cover its costs , and that it would generate far less cash than anticipated . 
Other costs also would increase , including maintenance 
Mr. Bakes declined to give out Eastern 's daily losses 
As to negotiations with creditors , Mr. Lorenzo said in remarks after the conference `` we 'll have to see how they -LCB- talks -RCB- come along . '' 
If Eastern can get creditor support , court confirmation of its plan could be relatively swift 
If Eastern can get creditor support , court confirmation of its plan could be relatively swift . 
But creditors are free to press for court approval of their own plan 
The method of calculating the 20 % tax , paid 
The method of calculating the 20 % tax , paid if it exceeds tax figured the regular way , is due for a change in 1990 , thanks to 1986 's tax act . 
Ways and Means Chairman Rostenkowski backed a simplification plan in the pending House tax bill 
If the law is n't changed , he says , `` we are left staring at rules that are almost impossible to implement 
If the law is n't changed , he says , `` we are left staring at rules that are almost impossible to implement 
Now the Senate 's stripped-down bill omits any proposal to deal with the corporate tax . 
Amending a 1988 return to claim a refund brings cash faster 
A loss -- after insurance recoveries -- is deductible only to the extent that it exceeds $ 100 
In filing an original -LRB- not amended -RRB- return , a couple should consider whether damaged property is owned jointly or separately 
Returns for 1988 from people with six-month filing extensions were due Monday 
Returns for 1988 from people with six-month filing extensions were due Monday , but the IRS says people in the disaster areas wo n't be penalized for late filing 
Interest will be imposed on unpaid taxes 
Interest will be imposed on unpaid taxes , but late-payment penalties on the returns will be waived 
Among the provisions : Fiscal-year taxpayers with returns due last Monday wo n't be penalized 
Extensions ca n't be granted for filing employment-tax returns due Oct. 31 or for depositing withheld taxes 
IRS Notice 89-136 describes this and other deadline relief for Hugo 's victims . 
The IRS denied cost deductions 
The IRS denied cost deductions because few of the temps got to go aboard . 
WHEN AN IRA OWNER dies , the trustee of the individual retirement account must file forms 5498 reporting market values relating to the decedent and each beneficiary , with copies to the executor and beneficiaries 
Gregory Damonne Brown of Fremont , Calif. , a hardworking , reclusive young bachelor , told that story to the Tax Court . 
But judges usually find the real aim is to escape tax on hidden income 
But judges usually find the real aim is to escape tax on hidden income ; and the IRS said Brown must have had such income 
But judges usually find the real aim is to escape tax on hidden income ; and the IRS said Brown must have had such income 
But judges usually find the real aim is to escape tax on hidden income ; and the IRS said Brown must have had such income -- although it uncovered no source -- because he deposited $ 124,732 in a bank account in 1982-84 
Brown had no proof 
Brown had no proof ; but testimony of his mother and stepmother about his father and of an ex-employer about his honesty and habits satisfied a judge that Brown was truthful 
The IRS offered no evidence of hidden sources of taxable income 
They have even sent helicopters in pursuit of bikers 
Bikers -- many of them ardent environmentalists -- proclaim their sport an efficient , safe , fitness-promoting way to get back to nature 
Bikers -- many of them ardent environmentalists -- proclaim their sport an efficient , safe , fitness-promoting way to get back to nature , while asserting a right , as taxpayers , to pedal on public lands . 
Sierra has been instrumental in securing a number of the California bans . 
Pressure from these members prompted the club recently to soften its anti-bike rhetoric 
Pressure from these members prompted the club recently to soften its anti-bike rhetoric ; it no longer , for example , lumps the bikes into the same category as motorcycles and other terrain-marring off-road vehicles . 
But the club still insists that public lands ought to be closed to the bikes 
`` I have a mountain bike 
These groups have been trying to improve the mountain biker 's image ; in the San Francisco-area park district where a ranger was clobbered by a cyclist this summer bikers have formed a volunteer patrol to help rangers enforce regulations 
While some are renegade riders who simply scorn regulations , much bad riding simply reflects ignorance 
Few would have foreseen such a furor 
When the bikes first entered mass production in 1981 , they were dismissed as a fad 
City dwellers love them 
The town is home to the Mountain Bike Hall of Fame 
`` The mountain bike feels as comfortable as the ` paperboy ' bike you had as a kid 
Stock-market tremors again shook bond prices 
Early yesterday , investors scrambled to buy Treasury bonds for safety 
Early yesterday , investors scrambled to buy Treasury bonds for safety as stock prices plummeted 
Early yesterday , investors scrambled to buy Treasury bonds for safety as stock prices plummeted and fears mounted of a replay of Friday . 
Early yesterday , investors scrambled to buy Treasury bonds for safety as stock prices plummeted and fears mounted of a replay of Friday . 
The dollar initially fell against other major currencies on news that the U.S. trade deficit surged in August to $ 10.77 billion . 
The dollar initially fell against other major currencies on news that the U.S. trade deficit surged in August to $ 10.77 billion . 
But the dollar later rebounded , finishing slightly higher against the yen 
In an apparent attempt to keep a lid on short-term interest rates , the Fed once again pumped money into the banking system . 
Fed officials appear reluctant to ease their credit grip any further 
Although stocks have led bonds this week , some traders predict that relationship will reverse during the next few weeks 
Although stocks have led bonds this week , some traders predict that relationship will reverse during the next few weeks . 
But several other traders contend investors have overreacted to junk-bond jitters 
`` They shot the whole orchestra 
Those supermarket tabloids Make me feel slow 
Forest-products operations strengthened in the third quarter 
Weyerhaeuser 's pulp and paper operations were up for the nine months 
Looking ahead to the fourth quarter , the company said export log and lumber markets will be weak 
Bankers Trust New York Corp. became the latest major U.S. bank to increase reserves for its loans to less-developed countries , making a $ 1.6 billion third-quarter addition to its provision . 
`` Step up to the plate 
Citicorp yesterday reported a 9 % third-quarter earnings drop 
Citicorp yesterday reported a 9 % third-quarter earnings drop , which analysts called a bit disappointing , while Manufacturers Hanover Corp. posted a $ 789 million loss for the quarter 
PNC Financial Corp. , the parent of Pittsburgh National Bank , reported net income climbed 9.8 % 
Corporate finance and trading results in member countries of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development were `` relatively flat , sometimes choppy 
The cross-border loan portfolio reflected `` adjustment problems and episodic payment patterns , '' the bank said no interest payments from Argentina in the nine months and none from Brazil in the third quarter 
The cross-border loan portfolio reflected `` adjustment problems and episodic payment patterns , '' the bank said no interest payments from Argentina in the nine months and none from Brazil in the third quarter , while Venezuela brought itself `` substantially current . '' 
`` People were waiting to see if we would take an additional provision '' for medium-term and long-term loans to less-developed countries , a Citicorp spokesman said . 
A `` concerning '' item the analyst cited was the 10 % jump in expenses , which the bank attributes to costs of expanding both its consumer credit-card operations and its overseas branch business . 
Wells Fargo continued to generate one of the highest profit margins among major banks , minimizing a drop in net interest margin with 13 % third-quarter growth in high-yielding business loans and similar growth in mortgages . 
Non-interest income fell slightly to $ 191.9 million from $ 193.3 million 
Wells Fargo has sold all of its non-trade loans made to less-developed countries , and managed to partly reverse the sharp rise in domestic non-accrual loans , which fell 8 % from the previous quarter to $ 806.8 million from $ 880.9 million . 
`` We did n't take part in a lot of deals '' in the quarter 
Trust income grew 15 % , to $ 49.9 million 
Even if the Congress -LRB- I -RRB- retains control of the government , Mr. Gandhi 's ability to push through major initiatives might be hobbled by a thinner majority 
Economic analysts call his trail-blazing liberalization of the Indian economy incomplete 
Economic analysts call his trail-blazing liberalization of the Indian economy incomplete , and many are hoping for major new liberalizations 
Mrs. Gandhi had been assassinated by separatist Sikhs 
In 1977 , Mrs. Gandhi was thrown out of office after her 19-month emergency rule 
In 1977 , Mrs. Gandhi was thrown out of office after her 19-month emergency rule , and in 1980 , after her successors made a mess of their three years in power , she was restored to office 
Most political analysts say that if Mr. Gandhi 's opposition unites to field single candidates in most precincts , the Congress -LRB- I -RRB- will lose big 
Most political analysts say that if Mr. Gandhi 's opposition unites to field single candidates in most precincts , the Congress -LRB- I -RRB- will lose big . 
But if the opposition remains fractured , the Congress -LRB- I -RRB- could win a small majority , or lead a coalition government 
Chimanbhai Mehta , a parliamentarian and former Gandhi ally , predicts Congress -LRB- I -RRB- will win only 150 seats , a quarter of the house 
Analysts say the opposition will struggle this week to unite 
Analysts say the opposition will struggle this week to unite , and its success will be clear 
The arms-kickback scandal is likely to be one of the big talking points in the campaign 
The opposition charged that the money was used to bribe Indian government officials , an allegation denied by Mr. Gandhi 's administration . 
The scandal has faded and flared 
The scandal has faded and flared , but recent disclosures propelled it back onto the front pages 
His term has produced no spectacular failures in politics , in the economy or on the military front , and has chalked up some successes . 
When there are well problems , light problems , road problems , the government tells us to forget it 
Even if it unites for the elections , its coherence is likely to be temporary 
When the Congress -LRB- I -RRB- lost the 1977 election , following Mrs. Gandhi 's hated emergency rule , a similar coalition took power and then disintegrated 
When the Congress -LRB- I -RRB- lost the 1977 election , following Mrs. Gandhi 's hated emergency rule , a similar coalition took power 
Bofors says it ca n't disclose the names of the middlemen 
CACI , based in Arlington , Va. , said it had n't seen the filing by Parsow and Elkhorn 
The partnerships said they may seek board representation 
The inverse trading relationship between bonds and stocks was interrupted yesterday 
The inverse trading relationship between bonds and stocks was interrupted yesterday as bonds fell despite a modest decline in stock prices . 
In early trading , investors were bidding bond prices higher 
In early trading , investors were bidding bond prices higher as stocks tumbled 
In early trading , investors were bidding bond prices higher as stocks tumbled and fears mounted that Friday 's stock market debacle would be repeated . 
But a partial recovery in the Dow Jones Industrial Average , which had been down more than 60 points in midmorning , dashed those expectations . 
`` When stocks stabilized , that was a disappointment 
But bond investors continue to keep a close watch on the jittery stock market . 
The move was meant to keep a lid on interest rates 
She said a more aggressive move was n't needed . 
The Treasury 's benchmark 30-year bond fell more than 1\/2 point , or over $ 5 for each $ 1,000 face amount 
The Treasury 's benchmark 30-year bond fell more than 1\/2 point , or over $ 5 for each $ 1,000 face amount , while the yield moved above 8 % for the first time since Thursday . 
The Treasury 's benchmark 30-year bond fell more than 1\/2 point , or over $ 5 for each $ 1,000 face amount , while the yield moved above 8 % for the first time since Thursday . Investment-grade corporate , municipal and mortgage-backed securities also fell . 
But most junk bonds closed unchanged 
Treasury bonds also were hurt late in the day by a $ 4 billion offering by the Tennessee Valley Authority and the prospect of a huge amount of new agency debt . 
Traders said hedging related to the TVA pricing also pressured Treasury bonds . 
Today the Treasury will announce the size of its next two-year note sale 
Some traders estimate $ 9.75 billion of new two-year Treasurys will be sold next week 
Investment-grade corporate bonds ended 1\/4 to 1\/2 point lower 
TVA offered $ 2 billion of 30-year bonds priced to yield 9.06 % ; $ 1 billion in 10-year notes priced to yield 8.42 % ; and $ 1 billion in five-year notes priced to yield 8.33 % . 
The derivative mortgage-backed market revived after a brief hiatus 
The derivative mortgage-backed market revived after a brief hiatus as two new Remics totaling $ 850 million were offered 
Dealers noted that it 's difficult to structure new Remics 
The Ginnie Mae 9 % issue was yielding 9.43 % to a 12-year average life assumption 
Confusion over the near-term trend for rates dominated the municipal arena 
Long tax-exempt dollar bonds were mostly flat to 3\/8 point lower after a whipsaw session of moving inversely to stocks in modest dealer-led trading . Prices of pre-refunded municipal bonds were capped by news that Chemical Securities Inc. , as agent for a customer , will accept bids today for two large lists of bonds that include many such issues . 
West German government bond prices took a wild roller-coaster ride , pulled down by Monday 's U.S. stock market gains 
British government bonds surged on renewed volatility in the stock market . 
The current ceiling on home loans insured by the Federal Housing Administration would be increased to $ 124,875 . 
The second provision , affecting so-called 235 mortgages , has met strong opposition from investment bankers represented by the Public Securities Association . 
By an 11-2 margin , Senate negotiators voted to preserve the 235 mortgage refinancing plan 
The government currently is subsidizing an estimated 23,000 loans above 11 % under the 235 program 
This sum has been guarded jealously by appropriators anxious to offset spending elsewhere 
The action came 
The bulk of the money would be funneled through the National Endowment for Democracy 
The Senate had refused late Friday to invoke cloture and limit debate 
Final approval -- on a 64-35 roll call -- was never in doubt 
The money will be applied for voter registration and election monitoring 
Critics warned such cash contributions may only undercut the opposition party 's standing 
The decision to raise the ceiling on FHA home loans still faces strong opposition in the House . 
But it is driven by the same fiscal pressures that have forced lawmakers to resort to various bookkeeping devices to juggle as much as $ 1 billion in spending 
These costs will complicate the budget picture in fiscal 1991 
The station is promised $ 1.8 billion within the $ 5.36 billion provided for research and development in the National Aeronautics and Space Administration 
The station is promised $ 1.8 billion within the $ 5.36 billion provided for research and development in the National Aeronautics and Space Administration , and the nation 's high-speed aerospace plane -- cut by the Senate -- could receive as much as $ 60 million in new funds or transfers . 
Similarly , the House agreed to add back $ 62 million to continue work on the advanced communications technology satellite , being developed by General Electric Co . 
And while setting a statutory limit of $ 1.6 billion on the automated space probe , the conference appropriated $ 30 million for the start-up of the CRAF-Cassini mission , a successor to the Voyager space probe 
An estimated $ 1.57 billion is separately allocated for the National Science Foundation 
While the practice was discouraged in the past , the conference agreement is laced with veterans ' hospitals , environmental projects and urban grants designated for specific communities 
The most striking example yesterday may have been in community development funds , where the two houses had separately approved a total of 27 projects valued at $ 20 million 
Yesterday 's conference agreement is the second major bill to emerge from negotiations this week 
Yesterday 's conference agreement is the second major bill to emerge from negotiations this week , as appropriators approved a fiscal 1990 transportation bill late Monday that includes a sweeping ban on smoking on most domestic airline flights . 
Separately , a third conference report covering an $ 18.4 billion Treasury and Postal Service bill was sent to the Senate 
Separately , a third conference report covering an $ 18.4 billion Treasury and Postal Service bill was sent to the Senate after passing the House on a 383-30 roll call yesterday . 
Defense and foreign aid are the two most critical areas remaining from the administration 's standpoint . 
The same issue threatens to spill over to the foreign aid debate 
The same issue threatens to spill over to the foreign aid debate 
Markets usually get noticed 
Gold tried to rally on Monday but ran into the same situation that has subdued gold prices for more than a year : selling by gold producers , who want to fix the highest possible price for their gold . 
Also , Mr. Savaiko noted , stock market investors seeking greater safety are veering toward buying bonds rather than precious metals 
`` They still bear the memory of October 1987 , when they bought gold 
`` They still bear the memory of October 1987 , when they bought gold after the stock market crashed and ended up losing money 
At the moment gold traders are n't concerned about inflation 
At the moment gold traders are n't concerned about inflation , he said , and as for the dollar , `` gold 's association with the currency has been diminishing recently 
Dinsa Mehta , chief bullion trader for Chase Manhattan Bank , said : `` There is little incentive on the part of traders to sell gold 
Dinsa Mehta , chief bullion trader for Chase Manhattan Bank , said : `` There is little incentive on the part of traders to sell gold because the stock market may go lower 
There is little incentive to buy gold 
There is little incentive to buy gold because if the stock market goes higher , it may be just a false alarm 
`` I do n't know what it means over the long run 
Previously , he noted , gold producers tended to back off from a rising gold market , letting prices rise as much as possible 
`` The dollar has n't reacted much to it 
Crude oil prices rose slightly in lackluster activity 
Since stock market indexes plummeted last Friday , participants in all markets have been wary 
When traders become confident that the stock market has stabilized , oil prices are expected to rise as supply and demand fundamentals once again become the major consideration 
When traders become confident that the stock market has stabilized , oil prices are expected to rise 
Crude oil for November delivery edged up by 16 cents a barrel to $ 20.75 a barrel . 
The prices of cattle , hogs and pork belly futures contracts rebounded 
The prices of cattle , hogs and pork belly futures contracts rebounded as livestock traders shook off fears that the Friday stock market plunge would chill consumer spending 
The prices of cattle , hogs and pork belly futures contracts rebounded as livestock traders shook off fears that the Friday stock market plunge would chill consumer spending , which in turn would hurt retail sales of beef and pork . 
Traders are especially sensitive to reports of possible U.S. soybean sales 
Corn futures prices rose slightly 
The nations of southern Africa know a lot about managing elephants ; their herds are thriving . 
Many delegates were willing to craft a compromise 
Five countries announced they would not honor what one Zimbabwean delegate wryly called the `` made in Switzerland '' solution . 
About 45 % of requests for SBA relief loans , which also are available to homeowners , come from small businesses , compared with a 25 % business share after most disasters 
After NBC weather man Willard Scott broadcast the hot-line number , it was flooded with 10,000 calls 
`` It helps us 
HEALTH BENEFITS remain a central lobbying effort 
The Senate , after deleting Section 89 repeal from its deficit-reduction bill , still is expected to join the House in voting to kill the law , which forces companies to provide comparable benefits to laborers and executives alike 
The Senate , after deleting Section 89 repeal from its deficit-reduction bill 
In lobbying on other health-coverage topics , the National Federation of Independent Business will press for legislation that would give self-employed people a 100 % tax deduction for their own health plans , up from 25 % currently . 
And the group will urge that the federal government pre-empt state rules on what must be covered by employers ' health insurance . 
Small-business groups also will fight the medical-leave provision of legislation that would expand parental leaves . 
And they still oppose as too costly an employer-paid health insurance bill sponsored by Sen. Edward Kennedy -LRB- D. , Mass . -RRB- despite his proposal to phase in small business only gradually . 
Sen. Lloyd Bentsen -LRB- D. , Texas -RRB- was outraged 
Even though the announcement was true in the end , it was issued without the senator 's permission 
Small-business suppliers want prisons to stop getting high priority 
The plan would increase the warranty on auto-emission systems to eight years or 80,000 miles from five years or 50,000 for major parts . 
The garage owners say they would benefit 
The garage owners say they would benefit because car owners would be less likely to go back to dealers for the simpler repairs after two years . 
They say the longer the warranty , the longer customers will automatically return to new-car dealers 
They say the longer the warranty , the longer customers will automatically return to new-car dealers , which then find non-warranty work 
Some 70 % of graduates who recently earned an M.B.A. degree say they 'd prefer to work in or own a small company 
Mr. McKinney , 50 years old , was chairman and chief executive of American Fletcher Corp. , Indianapolis 
The company said Mr. McKinney plans to retire 
Moody 's said the proposed recaptilization may `` limit the company 's ability to realize its profit potential 
When the Soviets announced their last soldier had left Afghanistan in February , the voices of skepticism were all but drowned out by an international chorus of euphoria 
Eight months after Gen. Boris Gromov walked across the bridge into the U.S.S.R. , a Soviet-controlled regime remains in Kabul , the refugees sit in their camps , and the restoration of Afghan freedom seems as far off as ever 
Eight months after Gen. Boris Gromov walked across the bridge into the U.S.S.R. , a Soviet-controlled regime remains in Kabul , the refugees sit in their camps 
Those who bought that illusion are now bewildered . 
The terms of the Geneva accords leave Moscow free to provide its clients in Kabul with assistance of any kind -- including the return of Soviet ground forces 
The only fly in the Soviet ointment was the last-minute addition of a unilateral American caveat , that U.S. aid to the resistance would continue 
The only fly in the Soviet ointment was the last-minute addition of a unilateral American caveat , that U.S. aid to the resistance would continue as long as Soviet aid to Kabul did . 
But as soon as the accords were signed , American officials sharply reduced aid 
Since the troop withdrawal , Moscow has poured in an additional $ 200 to $ 300 million worth per month -- nearly $ 2 billion since February , equivalent to the total U.S. aid to the resistance in nine years . 
It is well-known that the regular Afghan infantry is filled with reluctant conscripts . 
But this is not the entire Afghan army 
Complete units have been trained and indoctrinated in the U.S.S.R. and other East bloc nations ; 30,000 to 40,000 of these troops have returned . 
Even if not all these forces are committed to the regime , they are now dependent on it 
Even if not all these forces are committed to the regime , they are now dependent on it . 
Since 1981 , Indian military advisers have been assisting the Kabul regime . 
Those who bought that illusion are now bewildered . Eight months after Gen. Boris Gromov walked across the bridge into the U.S.S.R. , a Soviet-controlled regime remains in Kabul , the refugees sit in their camps , and the restoration of Afghan freedom seems as far off as ever . 
Before his assassination in 1988 , President Zia of Pakistan repeatedly stated that fresh Soviet troops were being inserted into Afghanistan even as others were ostentatiously withdrawn 
Before his assassination in 1988 , President Zia of Pakistan repeatedly stated that fresh Soviet troops were being inserted into Afghanistan 
Eight months after Gen. Boris Gromov walked across the bridge into the U.S.S.R. , a Soviet-controlled regime remains in Kabul , the refugees sit in their camps , and the restoration of Afghan freedom seems as far off as ever . 
This heavy outside support for the worst has undermined better , moderate leaders . 
In autumn last year , for example , the regime garrison at Kandahar was prepared to surrender the city to resistance moderates . 
The deal fell through 
Experienced resistance commanders wanted to use guerrilla action and siege tactics to wear down the regime . 
The wonder is not that the resistance has failed to topple the Kabul regime 
Last summer , in response to congressional criticism , the State Department and the CIA said they had resumed military aid to the resistance months 
Last summer , in response to congressional criticism , the State Department and the CIA said they had resumed military aid to the resistance months after it was cut off 
Last summer , in response to congressional criticism , the State Department and the CIA said they had resumed military aid to the resistance months after it was cut off ; but it is not clear how much is being sent 
Thus far there is no indication that they have been re-supplied with Stingers or other anti-aircraft weapons . 
Nothing stirred the soul of Ronald Reagan and his disciples as much as the crusade to aid Nicaragua 's Contra rebels , or the dream of building a space-based defense shield to knock out Soviet nuclear missiles . 
Yet under Mr. Reagan 's preferred successor , President Bush , those two cherished national-security causes are withering on the vine . 
And , surprisingly , little more than a whimper of protest is being heard 
`` The programs have arthritis , '' says Rep. Henry Hyde , a conservative Republican from Illinois . 
Yet , he asserts , `` you look around ... and you say , ` Who are the leaders ? 
Though he nominally supports both programs , Mr. Bush has n't been a passionate champion of either cause , as Mr. Reagan was 
What 's surprising is that there is n't more of a conservative outcry 
A combination of factors -- a weariness among some conservatives , a decline in the perception of a Soviet threat and a preoccupation with other issues -- seem to explain the strange tranquility . 
Above all , though , conservative Republicans who have championed both the Contras and SDI are reluctant to attack a Republican president for failing to do more 
`` We want to complain , we want to say something about it 
`` We want to complain , we want to say something about it , and we 're going to 
`` We want to complain , we want to say something about it , and we 're going to as it gets worse , '' says Rep. Dan Burton , an Indiana Republican who has been a staunch Contra backer . 
You hate to do it 
Mr. Bush has struck a deal with congressional leaders to provide nonlethal aid to the Contras 
Mr. Bush has struck a deal with congressional leaders to provide nonlethal aid to the Contras until Nicaragua holds national elections next February . 
But the administration has dropped any effort to win military aid for the rebels . 
And the administration 's deal with Congress gives several congressional committees the right to cut off even humanitarian aid next month 
Most analysts think there 's little prospect the Contras can be a significant fighting force without U.S. arms 
The administration continues to support SDI , or Star Wars 
The administration continues to support SDI , or Star Wars , and it recently lobbied to persuade the Senate to restore some of the funds it planned to cut from the program . 
And just last week , Defense Secretary Dick Cheney gave a strong speech listing `` compelling reasons '' to push ahead with SDI and saying he 'd urge President Bush to veto a defense bill with `` inadequate '' funding for the program . 
The House has already voted for a deep cut in funding 
The House has already voted for a deep cut in funding , and in the end the program 's backers will be hard pressed to head off some reduction in spending next year . 
And while the defense secretary is speaking out , President Bush himself has n't launched any high-visibility campaign to drum up support , as President Reagan did . 
The Soviets have agreed to complete a treaty cutting strategic weapons without including restrictions on space-based defenses . 
The Soviets have agreed to complete a treaty cutting strategic weapons without including restrictions on space-based defenses . 
It will be hard down the road to persuade Congress to approve money for SDI plans if lawmakers fear those plans could scuttle a completed treaty . 
More ominous to SDI supporters , the Bush administration appears to have tacitly accepted a new arms-control proposal from the Soviet Union that spells long-term trouble for Star Wars . 
Still , proponents may be shying away from more drumbeating 
Still , proponents may be shying away from more drumbeating because they sense political tides have turned against arming the Nicaraguan rebels or boosting spending on SDI 
Still , proponents may be shying away from more drumbeating because they sense political tides have turned against arming the Nicaraguan rebels or boosting spending on SDI -- particularly when the public perceives the Soviet threat is declining under Mikhail Gorbachev . 
In fact , because communism seems to be beating a global retreat , some conservatives may simply be so pleased that their anti-communist philosophy is prevailing that they do n't have the fire at the moment to push controversial programs 
Some activists are toiling to raise the profile of the two causes . 
Other conservative champions , like Wyoming Republican Sen. Malcolm Wallop , a longtime SDI advocate , do n't have the clout with the Bush White House that they enjoyed with President Reagan . 
`` What I 'd like to see , if he is up to it , is for Reagan to take to the hustings to regenerate enthusiasm for SDI 
His recent speech , provocatively titled `` Blacks ? Animals ? Homosexuals ? What is a Minority ? '' caused an uproar 
He said that other participants in the conference `` do not believe that the rights of Americans should be guaranteed to citizens who are homosexual 
He recalled to the audience a `` strange , infelicitous '' analogy he once heard arguing `` now that we have finally recognized that American blacks have rights , we need to do the same for animals 
'' Mr. Allen objected to this analogy 
He last made waves 
There is a huge divide between Mr. Allen 's we're-all-in-this-together view and the divisive litigation approach of the civil rights groups . 
The exhibition by the U.S.-U.S.S.R. Trade and Economic Council underscores the growing U.S. interest in that nation 's market 
In Beijing , meantime , China opened an international aviation show 
A Daikin executive in charge of exports 
Judge Masaaki Yoneyama told the Osaka District Court Daikin 's `` responsibility is heavy 
Scott Paper Co. said it is abandoning a proposed $ 650 million tree-farming project in Indonesia 
The eucalyptus plantation and pulp mill , which would have covered about 175,000 acres in the Irian Jaya region , had been approved by Indonesia 's investment board . 
With funds of 5.56 billion Hong Kong dollars -LRB- US$ 712 million -RRB- , the new company , Yaohan International Co. , plans to acquire 10 of Hong Kong 's top restaurants . 
It also intends to set up an international wholesale market with the Singapore government next May 
Christie 's will soon have a sale of Dada and Symbolist art 
`` Everything has to be the same between countries , '' says Campo 's Stefan Campo , who is asking clients to sign protest petitions . 
Analysts said the numbers were better than expectations , partly because of strong profit margins and a positive foreign-currency translation . 
`` If you believe that a good performance next year is contingent on an acceleration of revenue , there is n't a lot here to base optimism on 
Sam Yanes , a Polaroid spokesman , said `` I do n't know about disappointing 
Yesterday , the Dow Jones Industrial Average did a now familiar dance : It plunged 60.25 points before lunch , with most of the drop occurring in 25 minutes . 
Yesterday , the Dow Jones Industrial Average did a now familiar dance : It plunged 60.25 points before lunch , with most of the drop occurring in 25 minutes . Then , it rebounded to finish down only 18.65 points . 
`` It 's madness -- that in an hour you can whack off so much value , '' says Stanford Calderwood , chairman of Trinity Investment Management Corp. , Boston . 
There are many reasons for the market 's jumpiness : new trading vehicles such as stock-index futures and options ; computer-driven strategies like program trading ; and crowd psychology . 
Prices are moving up and down so fast 
Like lemmings , we tend to move in the same direction at same time . '' 
Institutions -- who now account for most trading -- count on being able to buy and sell big blocks of stock at an eye-blink . 
But when they discover that markets are n't always as liquid as they supposed -- markets jump 
But when they discover that markets are n't always as liquid as they supposed -- markets jump . 
On Monday , for instance , Howard Ward , a principal at Scudder , Stevens & Clark , found that `` you could n't buy blue-chips at quoted prices without paying up . '' 
And when many firms had to `` pay up , '' Monday 's sudden rally was sparked 
Investors believe they can can rely on such derivative securities to get in and out of the stock market without actually selling any stocks ; that is , a way of staying liquid 
`` It 's the idea that what goes in easy can come out easy 
One new investment style called `` asset allocation '' shifts portfolio weightings between stocks , bonds and cash 
One new investment style called `` asset allocation '' shifts portfolio weightings between stocks , bonds and cash when computer models say one is more attractive . 
It added another 5 % Monday 
When they did , the firm reduced those stock holdings to about 70 % 
The idea was to `` insure '' the value of a portfolio by selling futures 
Before the 1987 crash , an estimated $ 60 billion in institutional money was managed under this hedging technique . 
But in October 1987 , when portfolio insurers rushed to sell at the same time , they overwhelmed both the stock and futures markets . 
Unlike traditional buy-and-hold strategies , all of the above require that market makers be on hand to provide liquidity by buying and selling stocks in a crunch . 
But institutions say Wall Street brokerage firms are less willing to make markets . 
Many traders say that `` circuit breakers '' put in place to damp volatility after the 1987 crash actually added to volatility 
The circuit breakers caused a 30-minute shutdown in trading in Standard & Poor 's 500-stock index futures contract 
`` It was like they put you in a room with a gorilla and told you there were three doors to exit , '' said one Chicago-based futures trader . 
Many traders say that `` circuit breakers '' put in place to damp volatility after the 1987 crash actually added to volatility when the stock market plunged Friday . 
When the deal ran into trouble , the stock tumbled 
There are many reasons for the market 's jumpiness : new trading vehicles such as stock-index futures and options ; computer-driven strategies like program trading ; and crowd psychology . 
Hans Stoll , finance professor at Vanderbilt University , says the current volatility in U.S. markets pales in comparison to the 1930s , decades before derivative instruments such as options and futures were introduced . 
Some people tend to ignore that a 50-point move is less in percentage terms than it was 
John J. Phelan Jr. , chairman of the Big Board , asserts that `` 1988 and 1989 have been two of the least volatile years in the last 30 or 40 years . '' 
But the low average volatility Mr. Phelan is talking about is n't any comfort in a period of rapid stock-market moves like the past week . 
In addition , Sanford Grossman , a Wharton School finance professor , says volatile jumps in stock prices will continue 
Although the network is n't connected to the computer systems that operate either Galileo or the shuttle , part of the network will carry analyses of Galileo data once the craft gets spaceborn 
Although the network is n't connected to the computer systems that operate either Galileo or the shuttle , part of the network will carry analyses of Galileo data 
Mr. Redmond said the intruder had n't yet done any harm 
NASA said the Galileo worm had n't affected its computers or the computers of other government agencies 
NASA said the Galileo worm had n't affected its computers or the computers of other government agencies because they had modified their systems to reject worms . 
If it finds one and gets into the system , it will display a screen when a user logs on that says , `` Worms Against Nuclear Killers ... . You talk of times of peace for all , and then prepare for war . '' 
If it finds one and gets into the system , it will display a screen when a user logs on that says , `` Worms Against Nuclear Killers ... . You talk of times of peace for all , and then prepare for war . '' 
In addition , Mr. Alexander said , the worm sends strange messages to other machines at the center -- such as , `` George Orwell was an optimist , '' or `` Do n't feed the bats tonight . '' 
The passwords are included in the system software 
The passwords are included in the system software when it is installed but are supposed to be replaced 
If it finds one of those passwords , Mr. Alexander said , the worm will do such things as change users ' passwords to a series of random numbers 
NASA said it will take about a week 
Anti-nuclear activists have protested the launch of the Galileo space probe to Jupiter 
Activists fear that if the shuttle carrying Galileo into orbit should explode 
It is now a commonplace that prosecutors are bringing criminal indictments in cases where until a few years ago only a civil action at most would have been brought . 
It is now a commonplace that prosecutors are bringing criminal indictments in cases where until a few years ago only a civil action at most would have been brought . 
Beginning in the early 19th century , with U.S. v. Hudson and Goodwin , the Supreme Court has repeatedly held that a judicial power to declare conduct to be against the public interest and hence criminal , while well established in British law , would usurp legislative authority under the doctrine of separation of powers 
That 's the conventional theory anyway . 
In practice , however , the line between interpretation and redefinition of the criminal law long ago began to blur . 
In particular , a common law of white-collar crime has developed with surprising rapidity over the past decade . 
For example , although insider trading has long been criminal , it has never been statutorily defined 
In 1983 , the Supreme Court tried to supply a workable definition in the Dirks v. SEC decision , which found that liability depended on whether the tipper had breached his fiduciary duty to the corporation in order to obtain `` some personal gain 
In 1983 , the Supreme Court tried to supply a workable definition in the Dirks v. SEC decision , which found that liability depended on whether the tipper had breached his fiduciary duty to the corporation in order to obtain `` some personal gain '' and whether the tippee knew or recklessly disregarded this fact . 
She called her daughter to take her to the bank 
Hearing of this information , the husband discussed it with his broker , Mr. Chestman 
Hearing of this information , the husband discussed it with his broker , Mr. Chestman 
Did Mr. Loeb , his tipper , breach a fiduciary duty -LRB- and , if so , to whom 
Did Mr. Loeb seek personal gain -LRB- and if so , how 
Did Mr. Loeb , his tipper , breach a fiduciary duty -LRB- and , if so , to whom -RRB- ? Did Mr. Loeb seek personal gain -LRB- and if so , how -RRB- ? 
Essentially , Mr. Freeman had invested heavily in the Beatrice leveraged buy-out 
After placing orders to sell , Mr. Freeman called Martin Siegel , an investment banker at Kidder , Peabody & Co. , who was advising on the deal , to confirm these rumors 
Was there a fiduciary breach in order to obtain personal gain ? Did Mr. Freeman have notice of this ? 
Had the case gone to trial the same issues would have surfaced : 
It is not my contention that either Mr. Chestman or Mr. Freeman was an innocent victim of prosecutorial overzealousness . Arguably , both were on notice that their behavior was at least risky . 
But even if they behaved recklessly , reasons still exist to fear and resist this steady process of case-by-case judicial extension of the law of insider trading 
When only civil liability is involved , this method has the undeniable strengths of factual specificity and avoidance of overgeneralization 
When only civil liability is involved , this method has the undeniable strengths of factual specificity and avoidance of overgeneralization . 
When a court decides that a particular actor 's conduct was culpable and so extends the definition of insider trading to reach this conduct , it does not see the potentially enormous number of other cases that will be covered by the expanded rule 
When a court decides that a particular actor 's conduct was culpable 
When a court decides that a particular actor 's conduct was culpable and so extends the definition of insider trading to reach this conduct , it does not see the potentially enormous number of other cases that will be covered by the expanded rule . 
Thus , a court is poorly positioned to make judgments about the social utility of the expanded rule . 
In the past , not only would reputable professionals have rushed to check out such rumors with the company 
In this light , the comparative advantages of legislative law-making become clear : -LRB- 1 -RRB- Before it acts , the legislature typically will hear the views of representatives of all those affected by its decision , not just the immediate parties before the court 
In this light , the comparative advantages of legislative law-making become clear : -LRB- 1 -RRB- Before it acts , the legislature typically will hear the views of representatives of all those affected by its decision , not just the immediate parties before the court 
Although legislative lines can result in under-inclusion -LRB- which explains why the SEC has long resisted a legislative definition of insider trading -RRB- , judicial lawmaking inevitably creates uncertainty because of the shadowy outer edges and implications of most judicial decisions 
At least when the stakes are high , uncertainty in turn results in overinclusion 
Although legislative lines can result in under-inclusion -LRB- which explains why the SEC has long resisted a legislative definition of insider trading -RRB- , judicial lawmaking inevitably creates uncertainty because of the shadowy outer edges and implications of most judicial decisions . 
At least when the stakes are high , uncertainty in turn results in overinclusion 
In 1987 , the Supreme Court attempted in McNally v. U.S. to halt the inexorable expansion of these statutes by adopting a rule of strict construction for ambiguous criminal statues . 
Such a statute illustrates the fundamental problem : Congress finds it is easier to pass sweepingly moralistic prohibitions 
Predictably , when confronted with morally dubious behavior , prosecutors will exploit the latitude such openended statutes give them 
Predictably , when confronted with morally dubious behavior , prosecutors will exploit the latitude such openended statutes give them . 
Corning 's chairman and chief executive officer , James R. Houghton , said operating performance continued to be strong in the telecommunications and health and science segments . 
But the specialty-material segment slowed somewhat 
As for joint ventures , Mr. Houghton said profit was `` essentially flat '' due primarily to a slow recovery at Samsung-Corning Co. in Korea following a strike at a major customer and the disruption of shipments to China . 
Within 10 minutes after an 11:13 a.m. trading halt in UAL , parent of United Airlines , the Dow Jones Industrial Average plunged nearly 27 points to a 60.25-point deficit . 
Computer-guided buying then kicked in 
Nervous investors continued to limit their buying to blue-chip stocks 
Investors were buying yesterday 
Citicorp fell 1\/2 to 32 
In the first hour of trading , about one million shares a minute changed hands on the Big Board 
Delta Air Lines fell 1 7\/8 to 67 7\/8 , USAir Group dropped 3\/4 to 40 1\/4 , Southwest Airlines dipped 1\/2 to 25 
Aside from computer-guided selling , airline stocks took a beating as well . The Dow Jones Transportation Average fell 49.96 to close at 1254.27 . 
Eastern said it is ahead of schedule in resuming its operations 
Philip Morris , the most active Big Board issue for the second consecutive session , was unchanged at 43 1\/4 on 3.9 million shares . 
Other blue-chip consumer issues also fared relatively well : PepsiCo rose 1 3\/8 to 58 1\/2 ; Coca-Cola Co. was unchanged at 66 3\/4 
Other blue-chip consumer issues also fared relatively well : PepsiCo rose 1 3\/8 to 58 1\/2 ; Coca-Cola Co. was unchanged at 66 3\/4 ; McDonald 's also closed unchanged at 30 1\/2 
The Dow Jones Transportation Average fell 49.96 to close at 1254.27 . 
Standard & Poor 's 500-stock index fell 1.69 to 341.16 
Among the takeover-related stocks that sold off yesterday were Disney , which closed down 2 1\/8 to 121 1\/4 . Philips Industries tumbled 3\/8 to 22 7\/8 ; Hilton Hotels fell 2 1\/2 to 92 and Holiday Corp. fell 2 1\/8 to 69 7\/8 . 
International Paper fell 1 3\/8 to 51 1\/2 , Union Carbide eased 7\/8 to 25 , Chevron gained 1\/8 to 64 
In the first hour of trading , about one million shares a minute changed hands on the Big Board as big stock-index arbitrage sell programs pushed prices lower . 
`` Because there is a lot more volatility now , if guys see that they can make a quick 10 % or 15 % profit , they 'll take it 
`` Because there is a lot more volatility now , if guys see that they can make a quick 10 % or 15 % profit , they 'll take it 
Bay Financial , which said it may be forced to file under Chapter 11 
Investment bankers and retailers said the turmoil on Wall Street may benefit managers who plan to bid for U.S. retailing units of the British firm 
Amex issues with big percentage price gains included two Eastern Air Lines preferred stocks , reacting to the news about improved recovery in flight schedules 
On Monday , the company , a provider of environmental consulting services , reported a wider fiscal fourth-quarter loss and predicted a loss for its fiscal 1990 first quarter , but said a profit is expected for all of fiscal 1990 . 
ONE LIBERTY PROPERTIES Inc. declared a dividend of 40 cents a share on its $ 16.50 cumulative convertible preferred stock , payable Jan. 2 to stock of record Dec. 8 . 
But directors of the Great Neck , N.Y. , real estate investment trust did n't act on the common stock dividend . 
And they wo n't consider such a dividend 
`` October is a big rollover month 
Chemical said deposits Monday were about $ 5 million higher than usual 
Chemical said deposits Monday were about $ 5 million higher than usual and it expects more activity 
Harold Jones , Lincoln 's chief retail banking officer , said there has n't yet been `` a discernible response 
Friday 's market rout came smack in the middle of the heaviest month for CD rollovers , when a number of banks and thrifts already have promotions under way . 
Some banks actually boosted yields on the shortest term CDs in the latest week . 
Some banks actually boosted yields on the shortest term CDs in the latest week . 
Six-month CDs of $ 50,000 and less yielded an average 8.02 % in the week ended Tuesday , down from 8.10 % , according to Banxquote . The yield on six-month T-bills fell to 7.82 % on Monday , from 8.01 % the week before . 
Mr. Mehl noted that actual rates are almost identical on small and large-denomination CDs 
Meanwhile , the average yield on six-month CDs of more than $ 90,000 fell to 7.93 % in the latest week , according to Banxquote , from 8.10 % the week before . 
CDs sold by major brokerage houses , which like jumbo CDs tend to closely follow interest rate trends , also posted larger drops in yields . 
`` Even before the market drop , rates were down about half a percentage point 
While the U.S. share of the increase probably will not reach the $ 12 billion or more implicit in the IMF 's request for a doubling of its $ 90 billion capital , the administration probably will agree to a multibillion-dollar increase 
While international politics may argue for the capital increase , there is a clear economic case against it 
Opponents of the increase argue that the IMF practices central planning 
Liberals may support the stabilizing , quasi-governmental role of the IMF on two conditions : that the administration give assurances that liberal Democrats ' support will not be used against them in congressional re-election campaigns 
Because commercial banks and the developing-country governments believe they will get a piece of any capital increase , a scaled-down IMF mission would leave both feeling shortchanged 
Because commercial banks and the developing-country governments believe they will get a piece of any capital increase , a scaled-down IMF mission would leave both feeling shortchanged . 
Furthermore , a U.S. rejection of the capital increase -LRB- and transfer of shares to Japan -RRB- would give Japan an argument against future calls for economic burden-sharing . 
Upping the ante could slow economic development even further 
If conservatives do n't support an increase in the IMF 's capital 
The Merc fined Mr. Roberts $ 15,000 and suspended his trading membership for three years . 
The Merc said that as part of the disciplinary settlement , neither man admitted 
In a move that could pose a new competitive challenge to Time Warner Inc. 's powerful Home Box Office , cable giant Tele-Communications Inc. agreed to buy half of Showtime Networks Inc. from Viacom Inc. for $ 225 million . 
HBO has close to 24 million subscribers to its HBO and Cinemax networks 
For TCI , the investment in Showtime puts it in an unusual position ; as the largest cable operator , with control of close to 12 million of the nation 's 52 million cable subscribers , TCI is HBO 's largest customer . 
In a telephone interview , Robert Thomson , TCI senior vice president , said Showtime 's suit against HBO `` does n't involve us 
In addition to owning HBO , Time Warner owns American Television & Communications Inc. , the nation 's second largest cable operator after TCI . 
Viacom also owns cable systems 
The fight between HBO and Showtime is particularly acrimonious 
The fight between HBO and Showtime is particularly acrimonious because Mr. Biondi is the former chief executive of HBO 
Boeing Co. , already struck by its Machinists union , briefly called off contract talks with its engineers and labeled their demands `` grossly excessive . '' 
Boeing Co. , already struck by its Machinists union , briefly called off contract talks with its engineers and labeled their demands `` grossly excessive . '' 
Later , however , the company agreed to meet on Monday with the Seattle Professional Engineering Employees Association after a federal mediator intervened , according to the union 
Later , however , the company agreed to meet on Monday with the Seattle Professional Engineering Employees Association after a federal mediator intervened , according to the union . 
Machinists already have rejected a package that would have provided a 10 % pay raise plus bonuses over the three-year life of the contract . 
Investor Asher Edelman increased his stake in Intelogic Trace Inc. and cleared the way for additional purchases . 
Intelogic Trace , a computer services company , was spun off to Datapoint holders in 1985 
After Mr. Ackerman announced he was soliciting consents from shareholders in order to wrest control of Datapoint from Mr. Edelman , the corporate raider purchased 30 % of Datapoint 's shares 
In a Securities and Exchange Commission filing , Mr. Edelman said from Sept. 29 to Oct. 13 , he acquired 309,500 shares of Intelogic common shares for $ 2.25 to $ 2.375 each . 
It contends that current government policy is failing to stem the AIDS epidemic 
It contends that current government policy is failing to stem the AIDS epidemic because it suggests the use of condoms can make sex `` safe . '' 
But the report says : `` The only safe sex is sex between uninfected partners 
The federal government should make free , voluntary testing for the AIDS virus the cornerstone of an expanded campaign to stop the spread of acquired immune deficiency syndrome , the Hudson Institute recommended . 
An unexpectedly sharp widening in the U.S. trade gap for August dragged the dollar lower Tuesday 
Soon after the release of the U.S. trade figures , the dollar plunged to an intraday low of 140.95 yen . 
Marc M. Goloven , an economist with Manufacturers Hanover Trust in New York , said that while the figures appear to indicate a sadly deteriorating U.S. trade performance 
He said that while the U.S. trade gap with Canada has widened significantly , the trade deficit with Western Europe and Japan continues to narrow . 
In Tokyo Wednesday , the U.S. currency opened for trading at 142.55 yen , unchanged from Tuesday 's Tokyo close . 
They say that the recent injection of liquidity into the U.S. banking system has been modest 
The move , which injects capital into the system , is seen as an effort to reassure the finanicial markets that the U.S. central bank is ready to provide the ample liquidity . 
But other analysts contend that while the Fed 's move to loosen credit has n't been aggressive 
National Semiconductor Corp. said it settled a four-year-old patent infringement case against Linear Technology Corp. by accepting a $ 3 million payment from Linear in exchange for granting Linear irrevocable licenses for all products involved . 
Linear Technology , Milpitas , Calif. , called the settlement `` positive 
The first two games of the World Series between the Oakland Athletics and San Francisco Giants did n't finish in the top 10 
NBC had five of the top 10 shows ; ABC had four 
P&G already sells its Folgers ground roast coffee to food service concerns , but not to as many markets as Maryland Club . 
Houston-based Maryland Club Foods , which had sales of about $ 200 million last year , sells coffee under the Maryland Club and Butter-Nut brands to restaurants , hotels , offices and airlines . 
Funds will be used to repay existing short-term debt 
President Bush will veto a bill funding the Departments of Labor , Education and Health and Human Services 
Mr. Bush had threatened a veto previously . 
But he put off a firm decision 
Most lawmakers think it will be extremely difficult for Mr. Bush 's opponents on the abortion issue to round up the votes needed to override the veto . 
Mr. Bush has said he personally approves of abortions in the cases of rape , incest and danger to the life of the mother . 
DFC asked the central bank to appoint managers 
An experimental vaccine can alter the immune response of people infected with the AIDS virus , a prominent U.S. scientist said . 
Its effectiveness ca n't be determined 
One of the mysteries of AIDS remains why infected people produce large quantities of antibodies 
Cross & Trecker Corp. said it reached an agreement to sell its Wiedemann division to recently created Murata Wiedemann Inc. , a U.S. affiliate of Murata Machinery Ltd. of Kyoto , Japan . 
Cross & Trecker Corp. said it reached an agreement to sell its Wiedemann division to recently created Murata Wiedemann Inc. , a U.S. affiliate of Murata Machinery Ltd. of Kyoto , Japan . The agreement also includes the purchase of Cross & Trecker 's Warner & Swasey -LRB- Switzerland -RRB- AG unit by a European affiliate of Murata Machinery . 
Bids totaling $ 465 million were submitted 
The average interest rate fell to 8.292 % at Citicorp 's $ 50 million weekly auction of 91-day commercial paper , or corporate IOUs , from 8.483 % at last week 's sale . 
Bids totaling $ 415 million were submitted 
Matra S.A. reported its 1989 first-half profit soared 88 % 
Matra said the sharp improvement in net profit partly reflected a decline of 59 million francs in the group 's net loss from nonrecurring items in the first half of this year to 104 million francs from 163 million a year earlier . 
Matra said the sharp improvement in net profit partly reflected a decline of 59 million francs in the group 's net loss from nonrecurring items in the first half of this year to 104 million francs from 163 million a year earlier . There was also a decline in the group 's net financial costs to 25 million francs from 50 million a year before . 
The original bill was strongly opposed by the Fed and publicly criticized by friends of the Fed as an attempt to undermine the central bank 's independence . 
Polyvinyl chloride capacity `` has overtaken demand 
Polyvinyl chloride capacity `` has overtaken demand 
Third-quarter operating profit of the specialty-chemicals group declined slightly to $ 24.3 million from $ 24.9 million . 
Fiat S.p . A. , Italy 's leading industrial group , is conducting `` concrete '' talks with West Germany 's Daimler-Benz AG on a series of projects in the aerospace sector , Fiat officials said . 
`` While Mr. Reuter 's comments please us very much , there currently are no talks in progress regarding the automotive industry 
In the interview , Mr. Reuter said he is thinking foremost of cooperation in the truck sector 
In the interview , Mr. Reuter said he is thinking foremost of cooperation in the truck sector 
Mr. Boudreau will remain with Penn Pacific as a director and a member of the executive committee . 
Jaguar topped the most-active list for the U.S. over-the-counter market Monday . 
Fears that Ford 's ardor might be cooling put Jaguar shares into reverse 
Fears that Ford 's ardor might be cooling put Jaguar shares into reverse after GM confirmed its friendly negotiations with Jaguar . 
`` Sit tight '' through the coming volatility , Mr. Reitman suggests 
`` Sit tight '' through the coming volatility , Mr. Reitman suggests , though he concedes that many small investors will find Jaguar 's zigzags `` too hard to swallow . '' 
But a crucial point is how Ford reacts 
GM is expected to inject roughly # 200 million -LRB- $ 316 million -RRB- by acquiring some Jaguar shares 
GM is expected to inject roughly # 200 million -LRB- $ 316 million -RRB- by acquiring some Jaguar shares , and then win Jaguar management 's promise of an eventual 30 % stake . 
Ford might challenge the proposal by offering a full bid 
GM might counterbid . 
`` There 's quite a bit of value left in the -LCB- Jaguar -RCB- shares here 
Of course , that was 
Mr. Sloan plans to remain on the board 
The board is n't proposing a slate of its own 
Positive currency rates and strong sales growth led to a substantial rise in consolidated profit in the period 
Microsoft Corp. 's earnings growth continued to outstrip that of most of its competitors and customers in the personal-computer industry 
The Redmond , Wash. company , a bellwether provider of operating systems and software for personal-computer makers and users , reported net income for the quarter ended Sept. 30 of $ 49.6 million , or 87 cents a share , up from $ 36.6 million , or 65 cents a share , in the year-ago period . 
Microsoft previously indicated it would have a strong quarter by forecasting its revenue gain on Oct. 4 , causing a $ 6.50 a share jump in its stock . 
But its stock jumped again yesterday 
The company had been experiencing softening margins because of increased sales of software applications , which have lower margins than do operating systems . 
But the company said that trend was offset in the first quarter by better economies of scale and efficiencies in manufacturing . 
But the company said that trend was offset in the first quarter by better economies of scale and efficiencies in manufacturing . 
While it has predicted that overall growth in unit sales of personal computers is slowing to about a 10 % yearly rate , its own products are selling at a much faster rate 
While it has predicted that overall growth in unit sales of personal computers is slowing to about a 10 % yearly rate , its own products are selling at a much faster rate 
That segment continues to post strong quarter-to-quarter gains 
Compared with its previous quarter , the final period of its 1989 fiscal year , net rose 9 % 
Control Data said it expects its first RISC-based mainframe machine to be introduced next year . 
UAL'S STOCK SKIDDED an additional $ 24.875 , to $ 198 
UAL'S STOCK SKIDDED an additional $ 24.875 , to $ 198 , as British Airways indicated it may balk at any hastily revised version of the aborted $ 6.79 billion buy-out of United Air 's parent . 
Meanwhile , investor Marvin Davis said he remains interested in UAL 
The Dow Jones industrials closed off 18.65 points , at 2638.73 
Bond prices ended lower after an early rally 
Exports declined for the second month in a row 
Eastern Airlines ' creditors have begun exploring alternative approaches to a Chapter 11 reorganization 
Mr. Ely , 57 years old , temporarily increases the board to seven members . 
It has since asked holders not to immediately tender their shares under a recent $ 72-a-share , or $ 104 million , bid from AB SKF of Sweden 
BroadBeach did n't identify the buyer of the shares 
A BroadBeach spokeswoman said the company sold the stock in the open market 
The B\/T gene rearrangement test is more accurate than existing tests for diagnosing the type of cancer , whether it has spread 
Dr. Wyndham Wilson , a cancer treatment specialist at the National Cancer Institute , said the test is widely used in research centers but is n't having a major impact 
Dr. Wyndham Wilson , a cancer treatment specialist at the National Cancer Institute , said the test is widely used in research centers but is n't having a major impact because it is only occasionally useful in choosing the most effective treatment . 
Beyond removing a competitor , the combination should provide `` synergies , '' said Fred Harlow , Unilab 's chief financial officer . 
It also will hand Unilab new markets . 
In Los Angeles , for example , Central has had a strong market position while Unilab 's presence has been less prominent , according to Mr. Harlow 
Couch-potato jocks watching ABC 's `` Monday Night Football '' can now vote during halftime for the greatest play in 20 years from among four or five filmed replays . Two weeks ago , viewers of several NBC daytime consumer segments started calling a 900 number for advice on various life-style issues . 
Interactive telephone technology has taken a new leap in sophistication 
Eventually viewers may grow bored with the technology and resent the cost . 
One of the leaders behind the expanded use of 900 numbers is Call Interactive , a joint venture of giants American Express Co. and American Telephone & Telegraph Co . 
Other long-distance carriers have also begun marketing enhanced 900 service 
For a while , high-cost pornography lines and services that tempt children to dial -LRB- and redial -RRB- movie or music information earned the service a somewhat sleazy image 
In recent months , the technology has become more flexible and able to handle much more volume . 
Before , callers of 900 numbers would just listen and not talk 
Now , callers are led through complex menus of choices to retrieve information they want 
For several years , Turner Broadcasting System 's Cable News Network has invited viewers to respond nightly to topical issues 
The subject will be written into the plots of prime-time shows 
Callers will be sent educational booklets 
Profit from the calls goes to charity 
Profit from the calls goes to charity 
Profit from the calls goes to charity , but ABC Sports also uses the calls as a sales tool : After thanking callers for voting , Frank Gifford offers a football videotape for $ 19.95 
Profit from the calls goes to charity , but ABC Sports also uses the calls as a sales tool : After thanking callers for voting , Frank Gifford offers a football videotape for $ 19.95 
Kurt Sanger , ABC Sports 's marketing director , says that now `` tens of thousands '' of fans call its 900 number each week to vote for the best punt return , quarterback sack , etc . 
Viewers can call a 900 number for additional advice , which will be tailored to their needs based on the numbers they punch -LRB- `` Press one 
If the caller stays on the line and leaves a name and address for the sponsor , coupons and a newsletter will be mailed , and the sponsor will be able to gather a list of desirable potential customers 
If the caller stays on the line and leaves a name and address for the sponsor , coupons and a newsletter will be mailed 
She would n't say what the premium is 
`` We were able to get advertisers to use their promotion budget for this 
`` We were able to get advertisers to use their promotion budget for this , because they get a chance to do couponing , '' says Ms. Seaman . 
`` And we were able to attract some new advertisers 
This service identifies each caller 's phone number 
`` Hard Copy , '' the new syndicated tabloid show from Paramount Pictures , will use its 900 number for additional purposes that include research , says executive producer Mark B. von S. Monsky . 
Although it would be costly to shoot multiple versions , TV programmers could let audiences vote on different endings for a movie 
Although it would be costly to shoot multiple versions , TV programmers could let audiences vote on different endings for a movie . 
`` A menu by phone could let you decide , ` I 'm interested in just the beginning of story No. 1 
Integrated said that it would continue to pursue `` other alternatives '' to sell the five core companies 
Integrated Resources Inc. , the troubled financial-services company that has been trying to sell its core companies to restructure debt , said talks with a potential buyer ended . Integrated said that it would continue to pursue `` other alternatives '' to sell the five core companies and that a group of senior executives plans to make a proposal to purchase three of the companies -- Integrated Resources Equity Corp. , Resources Trust Co. and Integrated Resources Asset Management Corp . 
The company did n't disclose the new estimate 
Integrated said that it would continue to pursue `` other alternatives '' to sell the five core companies and that a group of senior executives plans to make a proposal to purchase three of the companies -- Integrated Resources Equity Corp. , Resources Trust Co. and Integrated Resources Asset Management Corp . 
AN EARTHQUAKE STRUCK Northern California , killing more than 50 people . 
Some buildings collapsed , gas and water lines ruptured 
The tremor was centered near Hollister , southeast of San Francisco , and was felt as far as 200 miles away . 
Major injuries were n't reported at Candlestick Park , where the third game of baseball 's World Series was canceled 
East Germany 's Politburo met amid speculation that the ruling body would oust hard-line leader Honecker , whose rule has been challenged by mass emigration and calls for democratic freedoms . 
Moscow , which left the group in 1983 to avoid explusion over allegations that political dissidents were being certified as insane , could be suspended 
Federal researchers said lung-cancer mortality rates for people under 45 years of age have begun to decline , particularly for white males . 
The National Cancer Institute also projected that overall U.S. mortality rates from lung cancer should begin to drop in several years 
Bush assured Roh that the U.S. would stand by its security commitments 
A White House spokesman said that while Bush would n't alter a longstanding ban on such involvement , `` there 's a clarification needed '' on its interpretation 
London has concluded that Austrian President Waldheim was n't responsible for the execution of six British commandos in World War II 
London has concluded that Austrian President Waldheim was n't responsible for the execution of six British commandos in World War II , although he probably was aware of the slayings . 
Libyan leader Gadhafi met with Egypt 's President Mubarak 
Los Angeles financier Marvin Davis , who put United in play with a $ 5.4 billion bid two months ago , last night proffered both a ray of hope and an extra element of uncertainty by saying he remains interested in acquiring UAL . 
Even as Citicorp and Chase Manhattan Corp. scrambled to line up bank financing for a revised version of the lapsed labor-management bid , British Airways , a 15 % partner in the buying group , indicated it wants to start from scratch 
Although Mr. Wolf and John Pope , UAL 's chief financial officer , stood to pocket $ 114.3 million for stock and options in the buy-out , UAL executives planned to reinvest only $ 15 million in the new company 
Confusion about the two banks ' hurried efforts to round up financing for a new bid that the UAL board has n't even seen yet helped send UAL stock spiraling downward . 
Yesterday 's selling began 
Several reports as the day progressed gave vague or conflicting indications about whether banks would sign up 
Several reports as the day progressed gave vague or conflicting indications about whether banks would sign up . 
Late in the day , Mr. Wolf issued a onepage statement calling Mr. Peterpaul 's blast `` divisive and uncalled for . '' 
The stock of UAL Corp. continued to be pounded amid signs that British Airways may balk at any hasty reformulation of the aborted $ 6.79 billion buy-out of United Airlines ' parent . Even as Citicorp and Chase Manhattan Corp. scrambled to line up bank financing for a revised version of the lapsed labor-management bid , British Airways , a 15 % partner in the buying group , indicated it wants to start from scratch . Adding insult to injury , United 's 25,000-member Machinists ' union , which helped scuttle financing for the first bid , yesterday asked UAL Chairman Stephen Wolf and other UAL directors to resign . A similar demand was made by a group that represents some of United 's 26,000 noncontract employees . Yesterday 's selling began after a Japanese news agency reported that Japanese banks , which balked at the first bid , were ready to reject a revised version at around $ 250 a share , or $ 5.65 billion . 
Meanwhile , in another sign that a new bid is n't imminent , it was learned that the UAL board held a telephone meeting Monday to hear an update on the situation 
The pilots were meeting outside Chicago yesterday . 
A group of United 's noncontract employees said in a statement , `` The fact that Wolf and other officers were going to line their pockets with literally millions of dollars while instituting severe pay cuts on the nonunion employees of United is not only deplorable but inexcusable . '' 
Last week , just before the bank commitments were due , the union asked the U.S. Labor Department to study whether the bid violated legal standards of fairness governing employee investment funds 
In his statement , Mr. Wolf said , `` We continue to believe our approach is sound 
Mr. Wolf has eschewed merger advice from a major Wall Street securities firm 
The huge drop in UAL stock prompted one takeover stock trader , George Kellner , managing partner of Kellner , DiLeo & Co. , to deny publicly rumors that his firm was going out of business . 
Although it may not be legally obligated to sell the company if the buy-out group ca n't revive its bid , it may have to explore alternatives if the buyers come back with a bid much lower than the group 's original $ 300-a-share proposal 
Although it may not be legally obligated to sell the company 
At a meeting Sept. 1 to consider the labor-management bid 
The takeover-stock traders were hoping that Mr. Davis or one of the other interested parties might re-emerge with the situation in disarray 
At a meeting Sept. 1 to consider the labor-management bid , the board also was informed by its investment adviser , First Boston Corp. , of interest expressed by buy-out funds including Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. and Forstmann Little & Co. , as well as by Robert Bass , Morgan Stanley 's buy-out fund , and Pan Am Corp . 
After the offering is completed , Macmillan will own about 56 % of the Berlitz common stock outstanding 
Five million shares will be offered in the 
Proceeds from the borrowings under the credit agreement will be used to pay an $ 80 million cash dividend to Macmillan 
Right away you notice the following things about a Philip Glass concert . 
And , if still conscious at the evening 's end , you notice something else : The audience , at first entranced and hypnotized by the music , releases its pent-up feelings in collective gratitude 
Either one likes it 
The typical Glass audience , which is more likely to be composed of music students than their teachers , certainly does . 
Philip Glass is the emperor , and his music the new clothes , of the avant-garde 
The piano compositions , which have been labeled variously as minimalist , Oriental , repetitive , cyclical , monophonic and hypnotic , are relentlessly tonal 
The piano compositions , which have been labeled variously as minimalist , Oriental , repetitive , cyclical , monophonic and hypnotic , are relentlessly tonal -LRB- therefore unthreatening -RRB- , unvaryingly rhythmic 
The piano compositions , which have been labeled variously as minimalist , Oriental , repetitive , cyclical , monophonic and hypnotic , are relentlessly tonal -LRB- therefore unthreatening -RRB- , unvaryingly rhythmic -LRB- therefore soporific -RRB- , and unflaggingly harmonious but unmelodic 
Far from being minimalist , the music unabatingly torments us with apparent novelties not so cleverly disguised in the simplicities of 4\/4 time , octave intervals , and ragtime or gospel chord progressions . 
But the music has its charm 
`` Opening '' -LRB- 1981 -RRB- , from Glassworks , introduces the audience to the Glass technique : Never straying too far from the piano 's center , Mr. Glass works in the two octaves on either side of middle C 
The music is not especially pianistic 
We hear , we may think , inner voices 
The chords modulate 
The chords modulate , but there is little filigree 
Contrasts predictably accumulate : First the music is loud 
Contrasts predictably accumulate : First the music is loud , then it becomes soft 
`` The Fourth Knee Play , '' an interlude from `` Einstein on the Beach , '' is like a toccata 
When Mr. Glass decides to get really fancy , he crosses his hands and hits a resonant bass note with his right hand 
In `` Mad Rush , '' which came from a commission to write a piece of indeterminate length -LRB- Mr. Glass charmingly , and tellingly , confessed that `` this was no problem for me '' -RRB- , an A section alternates with a B section several times 
Not only is the typical Glasswork open-ended 
`` Mad Rush '' began its life as the accompaniment to the Dalai Lama 's first public address in the 
`` Mad Rush '' began its life as the accompaniment to the Dalai Lama 's first public address in the U.S. , when Mr. Glass played it on the organ at New York 's Cathedral of St. John the Divine . 
Later it was performed on Radio Bremen in Germany 
Later it was performed on Radio Bremen in Germany 
Parts 1 , 2 , and 5 come from the soundtrack of Errol Morris 's acclaimed film , `` The Thin Blue Line 
When used as background in this way , the music has an appropriate eeriness 
When used as background in this way , the music has an appropriate eeriness , as when a two-note phrase , a descending minor third , accompanies the seemingly endless litany of reports , interviews and confessions of witnesses in the Morris film . 
Admirers of Mr. Glass may agree with the critic Richard Kostelanetz 's sense that the 1974 `` Music in Twelve Parts '' is as encyclopedic and weighty as `` The Well-Tempered Clavier . '' 
But while making the obvious point that both composers develop variations from themes , this comparison ignores the intensely claustrophobic nature of Mr. Glass 's music 
Honeywell said it is negotiating the sale of a second stake in Yamatake-Honeywell 
Honeywell previously said it intended to reduce its holding in the Japanese concern as part of a restructuring plan 
This statement surely buttresses your editorial viewpoint that environmental protection is generally silly or excessive 
This fatuous statement was not taken seriously 
The Clean Water Act contains no `` legal standard '' of zero discharge . 
Thus , you do the public a great disservice 
Thus , you do the public a great disservice when Mr. Greve suggests , even facetiously , that the Clean Water Act prohibits the preparation of a scotch and water ; your tippling readers may be led to believe that nothing but chance or oversight protects them , as they cower in the night with their scotch and waters , from the hairyknuckled knock of the Sierra Club at their doors 
To hear advertisers tell it , the magazine just has n't kept up with the times . 
People did n't believe we were in tune with the marketplace 
The magazine had its best year yet in 1988 , when it celebrated its centennial and racked up a 17 % gain in ad pages , to 283 . 
But this year , when the hullabaloo surrounding its centennial died , so too did some advertiser interest 
The reason , ad executives say , is that the entire magazine business has been soft 
When ad dollars are tight , the high page cost is a major deterrent for advertisers 
Even though National Geographic offers far more readers than does a magazine like Smithsonian , `` the page costs you an arm and a leg to develop any frequency 
To combat that problem , National Geographic , like other magazines , began offering regional editions allowing advertisers to appear in only a portion of its magazines 
To combat that problem , National Geographic , like other magazines , began offering regional editions allowing advertisers to appear in only a portion of its magazines -- for example , ads can run only in the magazines sent to subscribers in the largest 25 markets . 
But the magazine was slower than its competitors to come up with its regional editions , and until last year offered fewer of them than did competitors . 
Another sticking point for advertisers was National Geographic 's tradition of lumping its ads together , usually at the beginning or end of the magazine , rather than spreading ads out among its articles , as most magazines do . 
But the magazine was slower than its competitors to come up with its regional editions , and until last year offered fewer of them than did competitors . Another sticking point for advertisers was National Geographic 's tradition of lumping its ads together , usually at the beginning or end of the magazine , rather than spreading ads out among its articles , as most magazines do . And National Geographic 's smaller-than-average size means extra production costs for advertisers . 
It now offers 30 regional editions , it very recently began running ads adjacent to articles 
It now offers 30 regional editions , it very recently began running ads adjacent to articles , and it has been beefing up its sales force . 
However , when negotiations bogged down recently , WCRS 's chief executive , Peter Scott , met in Paris with another French firm , Boulet Dru Dupuy Petit , or BDDP 
According to the executive , BDDP 's involvement prompted renewed vigor in the WCRS-Eurocom talks 
The issue exploded this year 
Traders are likely to oppose such restrictions 
The exchanges contend that dual trading improves liquidity in the markets 
The exchanges contend that dual trading improves liquidity in the markets because traders can buy or sell 
The agency did n't cite specific situations where dual trading might be allowed 
Wendy Gramm , the agency 's chairman , told the Senate Agriculture Committee that she expects the study to be released within two weeks 
Under the rules , traders decide before a session begins whether they will trade for their own account or for customers 
`` It 's too soon to tell 
He said he would n't comment on the CFTC plan 
He said he would n't comment on the CFTC plan until the exchange has seen the full proposal . 
JAPANESE luxury-car makers are trying to set strict design standards for their dealerships . 
Nissan Motor Co. 's Infiniti division likes to insist that every dealer construct and furnish a building in a Japanese style . 
Toyota Motor Corp. 's Lexus division also provides specifications . 
Some are even coming up with their own novel designs . 
Some are even coming up with their own novel designs . But only two-thirds of Lexus dealers are constructing new buildings according to the Lexus specs . 
Yet some dealers have turned down Infiniti or Lexus franchises 
Mr. Seidman says he turned down a Lexus franchise 
Blocked by patent protection from following suit , Dictaphone decided to go a step further and cut the cassette in half again -- down to the length of a paperclip . 
By 1982 , however , the patent status of the Lanier microcassette had changed , permitting Dictaphone to develop its own competitive micro system , which it did . 
Marketing and sales departments then urged abandonment of the pico project . 
Dictaphone went ahead and introduced the pico in 1985 
Dictaphone went ahead and introduced the pico in 1985 , but it has n't sold well . 
It helped Dictaphone attract better engineers 
It helped Dictaphone attract better engineers , and it provided new technology for other company products . 
ONE DAY Carl Barrett of Mobile , Ala. , was raking some sycamore leaves 
The harder he tried to push them into large piles , the closer he came to breaking the rake and straining his back . 
His crude device worked : The lower teeth gathered the leaves into a pile , while the higher , harder teeth moved the top of the pile . 
One customer , Donald Blaggs of Mobile , says the Barrett Rake allowed him to do his lawn in 2 1\/2 hours , two hours less than usual . 
Richard Mason , president of Ames Co. in Parkersburg , W. Va. , says the Barrett rake `` makes sense 
`` They either pick it up 
In 1941 , Raeder and the German navy threatened to attack the Panama Canal 
The Southern Command has grown even bigger since the war 
The brigade has n't been heard from since 
The Army headquarters on the third deck of the Pentagon used to burn a lot of incense to him 
You see , Marshall had this thing about the Navy and the Marines -- he wanted to make them part of the Army 
Now his ghost wo n't let up 
To keep him quiet we invent a new unified command every year or so run by the Army or the Air Force and put more of the Navy and Marines under it . 
But we still hear him moaning at night 
But we still hear him moaning at night because the Navy has a few ships left 
When the shah died , President Carter was so scared that the shah 's ghost would blame him for shoving him out to make way for the ayatollah that he declared the Carter Doctrine 
Mr. Carter said he would go to war to stop anyone from trying to grab Iran . 
But that ghost would n't settle for words , he wanted money and people -- lots . 
So Mr. Carter formed three new Army divisions and gave them to a new bureaucracy in Tampa called the Rapid Deployment Force . 
But that ghost was n't fooled ; he knew the RDF was neither rapid nor deployable nor a force 
After Mr. Carter was defeated in 1980 , the shah 's ghost claimed the credit 
After Mr. Carter was defeated in 1980 , the shah 's ghost claimed the credit 
Why , he used to lay in wait for Cap ; suddenly he 'd leap from behind some statue of Marshall onto Cap 's chest and grab him by the throat and choke him 
Before they let him go he added a thousand bureaucrats to the RDF in Tampa and renamed it Central Command 
They had fun moving the carriers around 
Before they let him go he added a thousand bureaucrats to the RDF in Tampa and renamed it Central Command . He gave those bureaucrats charge of all naval operations in the Persian Gulf and Indian Ocean . 
But the shah still kept leaping out at Cap 
But the shah still kept leaping out at Cap , so Cap bought a hundred merchant ships more and $ 7 billion of loading barges , ramps , etc. , in order that those seven new Army divisions and three Marine brigades could unload from all those new ships and aircraft and go to war in the Zagros mountains . 
Lucky for Cap , Ike was easygoing and soon went away , while the shah -- he kept coming back . 
We had great success in Somalia . 
But then it turned out that President Siad Barrah was not at all a nice person 
But then it turned out that President Siad Barrah was not at all a nice person and the Navy pointed out that the base he promised us in Berbera had silted up about a hundred years ago and anyway was 1,244 miles from the mouth of the Gulf . 
But then it turned out that President Siad Barrah was not at all a nice person and the Navy pointed out that the base he promised us in Berbera had silted up about a hundred years ago and anyway was 1,244 miles from the mouth of the Gulf . 
Still , Berbera was the best we could get 
But that ghost would n't settle for words , he wanted money and people -- lots . 
But would n't you know , now that we are spending jillions of dollars , and have built those new divisions and new air wings , and have positioned all these ships and supplies to fight the Russians in Iran , the Russians seem to have lost interest in the whole subject 
But would n't you know , now that we are spending jillions of dollars , and have built those new divisions and new air wings , and have positioned all these ships and supplies to fight the Russians in Iran , the Russians seem to have lost interest in the whole subject . 
Predictably , some Navy guys said : `` Do we still need to keep all 18 Army divisions on active duty and all those extra land-based aircraft without bases and all those Army guys playing admiral in Tampa ? Could n't we save $ 20 billion or $ 30 billion a year by shifting that stuff to the reserves ? 
Predictably , some Navy guys said : `` Do we still need to keep all 18 Army divisions on active duty and all those extra land-based aircraft without bases and all those Army guys playing admiral in Tampa ? Could n't we save $ 20 billion or $ 30 billion a year by shifting that stuff to the reserves ? And why not save the costs of a thousand bureaucrats by abolishing Central Command and putting responsibility for Gulf naval operations back where it belongs , afloat with the task force commander in the Gulf ? 
He would n't leave 
He would n't leave until Mr. Cheney promised to do whatever the Pentagon systems analysts told him . 
So next day Mr. Cheney went out and did just that : He canceled the 600-ship Navy and cut back one carrier and 20 frigates . 
So next day Mr. Cheney went out and did just that : He canceled the 600-ship Navy and cut back one carrier and 20 frigates . Then he canceled production of the Navy 's most important carrier aircraft , the F-14 and the A-6 . 
Marshall 's ghost is satisfied for now 
They know that they can hold off the ghosts only a little while longer by cutting carriers and ships . 
Then the whole thing will start to collapse 
For one thing , there is an old master on the wall -- `` Samuel Anointing David , '' a big baroque canvas painted by Mattia Preti , a 17th-century Neapolitan . 
The rub is that the $ 28 million was plucked from the funds of this federally insured institution 
Though the agency could remove Mr. Paul , it has no current intention to do that 
`` It 's not like selling Chevrolets , '' Mr. Paul says 
Although Mr. Paul has pared a $ 1.35 billion junk-bond portfolio to less than $ 900 million since April , the high-yield debt market has plummeted 
Divesting itself of what is left , as is required of all thrift institutions by July 1994 under the new federal S&L bailout law , may well prove difficult . 
Mr. Paul has a plan to bring in $ 150 million by selling off 63 of CenTrust 's 71 branches 
Embittered shareholders -LRB- some of whom are suing -RRB- say the chairman and his collection epitomize the excesses of speculation that set off the national S&L crisis . 
`` They say , ` Johnny Payson got $ 53 million for his 
The great collectors we depended on , such as Paul Mellon or Norton Simon , have stopped buying 
-LRB- Trouble is , Mr. Bond has yet to pay up 
-LRB- Trouble is , Mr. Bond has yet to pay up , and until he does , Sotheby 's has the painting under lock and key 
When Mr. Paul moved in on the art market , he let it be known that virtually no piece was too costly to be considered by CenTrust 
There , on one of his first shopping trips , Mr. Paul picked up several paintings at stunning prices . 
There , on one of his first shopping trips , Mr. Paul picked up several paintings at stunning prices . 
`` He says he ` stole them , ' '' recalls Mr. Guterman . 
Mr. Paul quickly became more aggressive in his collecting , with the help of George Wachter , a Sotheby 's expert in old masters whom he met at an exhibition of the Guterman items . 
People were interested in seeing him 
Mr. Hall says Mr. Paul `` was known to spend a lot of money . People were interested in seeing him , but it was recognized that the route was through Sotheby 's and particularly George Wachter . '' 
Sotheby 's , the auction house founded in London 1744 and now under the umbrella of Sotheby 's Holdings Inc. , was hoping to stir up interest in old masters 
`` An unknown quantity to most of the art world , Paul is no stranger to lavish spending , '' the magazine said , noting that he does n't stop at paint on canvas 
`` He recently bid $ 30,000 at a Paris charity auction for a dinner cooked by six of the world 's great chefs 
In its letter to him , dated March 2 and shared with reporters , Alex Hager , the chief of the thrift-institution bureau in the comptroller 's office , expressed puzzlement that the S&L could be so profligate 
The comptroller 's office eventually extended the deadline to six months but broadened its demands , ordering that the `` book value of the collection -LCB- be -RCB- reduced to zero . '' 
Mr. Paul says that at one point he did indeed have eight or nine of the paintings at home 
He explains that he was `` merely storing the paintings at home -- with some display -- because of the special dehumidified environment '' required for their safekeeping 
He explains that he was `` merely storing the paintings at home -- with some display -- because of the special dehumidified environment '' required for their safekeeping , until CenTrust 's new building was ready for them . 
It came on the heels of a number of local newspaper articles suggesting that Mr. Paul has benefited handsomely from his association with CenTrust . 
Adding to Mr. Paul 's problems , dealers -LRB- some with vested interests -RRB- insist that he , relying rather too heavily on Sotheby 's advice , paid much too much for several pieces in the CenTrust collection . 
David Tunick , the president of David Tunick Inc. , a New York gallery , says scholars question the authenticity of the Rubens . 
Victor Wiener , the executive director of the Appraisers Association of America , agrees that Mr. Paul paid very dearly for the Rubens 
`` It 's not beyond credibility the Rubens will someday be worth $ 12 million 
Victor Wiener , the executive director of the Appraisers Association of America , agrees that Mr. Paul paid very dearly for the Rubens and adds that getting rid of it any time soon for a similar sum would be quite a feat . 
Art prices are skyrocketing 
Salomon Brothers Inc. , the investment-banking firm , in its annual tally of investment returns , reported that old masters appreciated 51 % in the year ended June 1 , the greatest return of any of 13 assets it tracked . 
Art indexes track winners , not losers . 
But art that has fallen sharply in value is rarely put up for sale . 
It 's not that there are n't any bids 
In January , the Preti painting that now hangs at CenTrust was expected to bring no more than $ 700,000 at auction 
Mr. Hall of the Colnaghi gallery says $ 1.15 million `` would have been an impossible price for anyone to ask for a Preti four years ago . '' 
But from his vantage point , it is n't that Mr. Paul , a customer of his too , overpaid for the work , `` a gargantuan painting by an artist who is not a household word . '' 
Mr. Paul boasts that he spotted bargains in old masters 
`` They went up 51 % last year 
Sotheby 's vice president Diana Levitt says the auction house has been `` assisting '' Mr. Paul in selling the paintings . 
That is n't 51 % 
Mr. Paul boasts that he spotted bargains in old masters just before they took an upward turn . 
Mr. Paul says he had not one but four advisers 
He says he expects to sell the collection -- including the controversial Rubens -- `` carefully and prudently , just as it was put together . '' 
That is , he is being compelled to put them on the market too soon , and has already gotten offers that are less than he paid for some of the art works . 
`` On occasion , he paid a high price 
`` On occasion , he paid a high price , '' Mr. Wachter concedes , but he says those who bid less and dropped out 
Naomi Bernhard Levinson , a fine-arts appraiser at Bernhard Associates in San Francisco , considers it `` definite conflict of interest for an auction house to both advise a client on purchases 
Frequently , clients express interest in paintings but do n't end up bidding 
Mr. Paul says that he has feelers out over much of the globe 
Because of the pressure on CenTrust to sell , dealers and collectors have been trying to get the paintings at bargain-basement prices . 
`` I tried to steal the picture 
Because of the pressure on CenTrust to sell , dealers and collectors have been trying to get the paintings at bargain-basement prices . But so far , Mr. Paul and his advisers are holding fast . 
`` I do n't think I have a life style that is , frankly , so flamboyant , '' he says . 
The offices are done in hardwood and oriental rugs , leatherbound books and , of course , a $ 12 million Rubens . 
`` Do n't say it 's a gold ceiling . 
`` Otherwise , the regulators will take it for decadence 
The percent difference compares actual profit with the 30-day estimate where at least three analysts have issues forecasts in the past 30 days . 
All of the former board 's members were CPAs , provoking conflict-of-interest criticism 
The new board 's seven-member structure kept four CPAs 
In the late 1960s some CPAs failed to correct such abuses as clients picking permissive rules that hyped earnings and stock prices . 
And in November 1970 Congress had passed a special act to overrule one board rule . 
The FASB since then has issued 102 rules 
Amcast Industrial Corp. said it plans to repurchase 500,000 shares , or about 7 % of its shares outstanding , in open market transactions . 
Total value of the contract could be $ 100 million 
The No. 1 domestic aluminum producer , Aluminum Co. of America , Friday said its earnings fell 3.2 % to $ 219 million , or $ 2.46 a share . 
Much of the price decline has been blamed on a slowing economy 
Much of the price decline has been blamed on a slowing economy and the third quarter is typically the industry 's slowest period . 
He said shipments are continuing at a `` healthy '' pace 
But William O. Bourke , chairman and chief executive officer , said the ingot price `` appears to have bottomed out . '' He said shipments are continuing at a `` healthy '' pace and the company has no excess inventory . 
Yesterday 's 88-point recovery from Friday 's megadrop in the Dow Jones industrials had many brokerage houses proclaiming that stocks are a good bargain again . 
After sitting with 20 % of his fund in cash before Friday 's sell-off , Mr. Neff says he bought `` a narrow list of stocks '' yesterday 
`` This is not a grossly overvalued market 
The common view , says Abby Cohen , strategist for Drexel Burnham Lambert , is that there will be `` mild economic growth , modest profit expansion 
`` I 've been two-thirds in cash since July 
`` Generalizations about value are n't useful , '' says New York money manager John LeFrere of Delta Capital Management . 
For instance , he says , International Business Machines and Unisys might look cheap 
Money manager Robert Ross , head of Duncan Ross Associates Ltd. in Vancouver , British Columbia , says stocks would have to fall 15 % to 20 % 
But quite a few money managers are n't buying it . 
There are still bulls out there . 
Some investors say Friday 's sell-off was a good thing 
Friday 's big fall was `` just a blunder by the stock market , '' says John Connolly , chief strategist for Dean Witter . 
`` Investors are n't going to be throwing money at any of the proposed LBOs 
Earlier this year , bankers and other investors were willing to provide financing 
`` Competition from third parties who have cash and are prepared to buy has always existed and will continue , '' added Mr. Rosenthal . 
`` But when prices were crazy , it was even harder to do an LBO 
`` Having to take on less debt would certainly be an advantage , '' said Mr. Leblang . 
Not only could the Wall Street gyrations damp Christmas sales if consumers lose confidence in the economy 
Further , many institutions today holding troubled retailers ' debt securities will be reticent to consider additional retailing investments . 
However , the lower prices these retail chains are now expected to bring should make it easier for managers to raise the necessary capital and pay back the resulting debt . 
`` What 's encouraging about this is that retail chains will be sold on the basis of their sales and earnings , not liquidation values , '' said Joseph E. Brooks , chairman and chief executive officer of Ann Taylor Inc. , a specialty chain . 
`` Prices for retail chains are lower today than they were last week , which will help management , '' said Gilbert Harrison , chairman of Financo Inc. , an investment-banking firm specializing in retailing acquisitions . 
Justin 's attorney , Charles E. Baxley , said Justin would ask an appeals court to set aside the order temporarily , pending an expedited appeal . 
FERC 's regulation had given pipelines until March 31 , 1989 , to pass on to customers as much as 50 % of the costs of buying out their broken contracts , which were made with producers 
A majority of old contracts were renegotiated by the deadline and settled at steep discounts . 
According to industry lawyers , the ruling gives pipeline companies an important second chance to resolve remaining disputes and take advantage of the cost-sharing mechanism . 
The court ordered FERC to justify within 60 days not only its cost-sharing deadline , but other major elements of its proposed regulation for introducing more competition into natural-gas transportation . 
Expo enthusiasts argue that holding the fair would attract businesses , create jobs and help renovate abandoned sections of town . 
`` This city already has too many tourists 
`` What do we want casinos for 
Not all Poles are pleased . 
According to the Middle East Economic Survey , the North African nation is holding talks with Italy for adding a fourth pipe to a section of the Trans-Mediterranean pipeline , expanding capacity by up to six billion cubic meters a year from 12.5 billion . 
South Africa 's National Union of Mineworkers agreed to suspend the strike by diamond workers and resume negotiations with De Beers Consolidated Mines Ltd. over their wage dispute , De Beers said . 
West German Environment Minister Klaus Toepfer said Bonn is convinced of the need for cooperation , `` especially with our neighbors in the East 
The Swedish publishers of a new Estonian-language newspaper rushed an extra edition across the Baltic on Oct. 10 
The Swedish publishing company Bonniers owns 51 % of Are Paev 
Korean car exports have slid about 40 % so far this year 
They are enjoying domestic sales that are more than making up for lost overseas sales . 
In fact , some auto executives suggest that slackened demand for their cars in the U.S. and Canada is a blessing 
It 's an optimistic move in a industry already facing world-wide overcapacity . 
But South Korean auto makers are confident that the export market will bounce back 
The company plans to expand plant capacity 50 % by 1991 . 
The company plans to expand plant capacity 50 % by 1991 . 
Hyundai and Daewoo seem unconcerned about the SsangYong threat 
Shipments of its Lemans to GM 's Pontiac division are off about 65 % from a year ago , versus a 44 % decline for Hyundai and an 18 % increase for Kia . 
The big problem for Daewoo , which holds about 21 % of the market , is the long series of labor disruptions it suffered this year . 
In fact , a sister company , Daewoo Shipbuilding and Heavy Machinery , plans to build 240,000 minicars by the mid-1990s . 
Hyundai , the Korean market leader with a 58 % share , also plans to jump into minicars at the same time . It has a similar project for 200,000 cars a year . 
As the stock market bounced back , withdrawals of money from stock funds amounted to a mere trickle compared with Black Monday 
Other mutual fund companies reported even lighter withdrawal requests . 
Of course , the relative calm could be jolted if the market plunges again . 
And any strong surge in redemptions could force some funds to dump stocks to raise cash , as some did during Black Monday . 
Vanguard Group Inc. saw heavy exchanges from stock funds into money market funds 
`` In the first hour , the real nervous folks came along , '' a spokesman said . 
As stocks rose , in fact , some investors changed course and reversed their sell orders 
Most of that increase came in the first hour after the phone lines opened at 8 a.m . 
Many funds allow investors to void orders 
As stocks rose , in fact , some investors changed course and reversed their sell orders . 
At Scudder and at the smaller Ivy funds group in Hingham , Mass. , for instance , some shareholders called early in the morning to switch money from stock funds to money market funds 
Because mutual fund trades do n't take effect until the market close -- in this case , at 4 p.m. -- these shareholders effectively stayed put 
At Fidelity 's office in downtown Boston , Gerald Sherman walked in shortly after 7:30 a.m. and placed an order to switch his retirement accounts out of three stock funds and into a money market fund . 
At Scudder and at the smaller Ivy funds group in Hingham , Mass. , for instance , some shareholders called early in the morning to switch money from stock funds to money market funds , but later called back to reverse the switches . 
Shareholders have been steadily bailing out of several big junk funds the past several weeks 
Much of the money has been switched into money market funds , fund executives say . 
When the market stabilized , he added , the firm sold the bonds and quickly paid the loans back 
SOFT CONTACT LENSES WON federal blessing on March 18 , 1971 , and quickly became eye openers for their makers . 
In September 1971 California officials seized `` bootlegged '' lenses 
In October doctors were debating the product 's safety , some claiming it caused infections . 
Although Bausch remains the leader among the six majors , Johnson & Johnson , with its new disposables , is coming on fast 
In the wake of Friday 's plunge and yesterday 's rebound , some companies are already postponing deals 
As in other jittery times , many small businesses expect a particularly rough time raising funds 
At the time , its shares were selling above their initial offering price of $ 19 
At the time , its shares were selling above their initial offering price of $ 19 , and bankers believed Staples would sell new stock without a hitch . 
Business , however , continues to be `` robust 
`` We have capital requirements 
Unless the market goes right back up , he says , `` it may take us six to nine months to find the money , instead of three 
Unless the market goes right back up , he says , `` it may take us six to nine months to find the money , instead of three . '' 
As the market dropped Friday , Robertson Stephens slashed the value of the offering by 7 % 
For many , the situation is especially discouraging 
`` We were just beginning to look at the increase in IPOs , seeing the light at the end of the tunnel , '' says Frank Kline Jr. , partner in Lambda Funds , a Beverly Hills , Calif. , venture capital concern . 
Exabyte Corp. had been planning to sell 10 % of its stock this week in an IPO that would raise up to $ 28.5 million . 
Many companies are hesitating . 
KnowledgeWare Inc. , an Atlanta computer-software concern , says it is still planning to go ahead with its IPO this week or next 
Many companies are hesitating . 
Many companies are hesitating . 
Delayed financings also would affect the operations of many companies . 
In a sagging market , the Federal Reserve System `` might flood the market with funds 
Partly because the 1987 market crash made it harder for them to find financing , many high-technology concerns have made such alliances recently 
Alan Wells , president of Bollinger , Wells , Lett & Co. , a New York merger specialist , thinks panicky investors may lose their enthusiasm for leveraged buy-out and giant takeover deals . 
Peter Drake , biotechnology analyst for Vector Securities International , Chicago , thinks market uncertainty may encourage small companies to form more strategic alliances with big corporations . 
Bay Financial Corp. , hurt by high debts and deteriorating real estate investments , reported a wider loss for the fourth quarter 
Bay Financial Corp. , hurt by high debts and deteriorating real estate investments , reported a wider loss for the fourth quarter and said it might be forced to seek a bankruptcy-court reorganization 
Bay said a `` substantial part '' of its debt outstanding is in default as a result of inability to sell certain properties quickly and lower-than-expected prices for sales made . 
Although it is having serious cash-flow problems , Bay said the fair-market value of its holdings , minus debt , was equal to $ 6.02 a share at June 30 based on a recent appraisal 
A year earlier , fair-market value per share was $ 26.02 
TRW Inc. reported a 12 % decline in third-quarter net income 
The latest quarter included a gain of 11 cents a share as a partial reversal of the recall charge 
The company said aerospace and defense sales were up 2 % for the quarter to $ 802 million 
The group had an operating profit of $ 65 million , against a loss of $ 13 million a year earlier . 
a tragicomic monologue by an idealistic , not unheroic , though sadly self-deceived English butler in his sixties -- proceeds 
As the narrator Stevens , the solitary butler of Darlington Hall , mulls over such hallowed terms as `` greatness , '' `` dignity , '' `` service '' and `` loyalty , '' we see how pious cant subverts the soul 
As he stands on a hill at the beginning of a six-day motor expedition from Oxfordshire to Cornwall , where a former housekeeper resides , perhaps the victim of an unhappy 20-year marriage , perhaps -LRB- he hopes with more fervor than he will ever acknowledge -RRB- not disinclined to return to domestic service , Stevens surveys the view 
As he stands on a hill at the beginning of a six-day motor expedition from Oxfordshire to Cornwall , where a former housekeeper resides , perhaps the victim of an unhappy 20-year marriage , perhaps -LRB- he hopes with more fervor than he will ever acknowledge -RRB- not disinclined to return to domestic service , Stevens surveys the view 
`` We call this land of ours Great Britain 
`` We call this land of ours Great Britain , and there may be those who believe this a somewhat immodest practice . 
An ill-mannered mountain ? An effusive landscape ? 
Continentals are unable to be butlers 
Despite his racial advantage , to be a great butler is a heroic calling ; one 's pantry is `` not unlike general 's headquarters during a battle . '' 
In the end , after meeting with the former housekeeper , Stevens sits by the seashore at dusk , thinking of her and of his employer , and declares `` I trusted . I trusted in his lordship 's wisdom ... . I ca n't even say I made my own mistakes . Really -- one has to ask oneself -- what dignity is there in that ? '' 
We understand such rueful wisdom must be retrospective : The owl of Minerva only spreads her wings at dusk . 
First , he suggests , GPA Group Ltd. , the international aircraft leasing company based in Ireland , could lease some of its Boeing jetliners to the Soviet airline . 
Then Aer Lingus , the Irish flag carrier , could teach Aeroflot pilots to fly the Boeings 
Aer Rianta , the Irish airport authority , could build a cargo terminal in the Soviet Union . Aeroflot could lease some of its cargo planes to Aer Lingus , through GPA , for a joint-venture cargo airline . 
Aer Rianta , the Irish airport authority , could build a cargo terminal in the Soviet Union . Aeroflot could lease some of its cargo planes to Aer Lingus , through GPA , for a joint-venture cargo airline . 
The Irish-Soviet aviation connection is alive and well here at Shannon Airport . 
Unlikely as it may seem , tiny , politically neutral Ireland has penetrated the mighty Soviet airline bureaucracy . 
And as Aeroflot struggles to boost its service standards , upgrade its fleet and pursue commercial opportunities , the Irish aviation industry seems poised to benefit 
`` Irish and Soviet people are similar , '' says Mr. Ovcharenko . 
Aeroflot carried about 125 million passengers last year 
What Aeroflot does n't pour into its own gas-guzzling Ilyushins is bartered to the airport authority , which resells it to 11 Western carriers including Air France , Trans World Airlines and Pakistan International Airlines . 
Duty-free shops in Leningrad 's Pulkova Airport opened in July 
When it opened in 1939 , Shannon was the first landfall in Europe for thirsty airplanes flying from North America 
Advances in aircraft fuel efficiency over the years made a Shannon stop unnecessary for most Western air fleets 
Advances in aircraft fuel efficiency over the years made a Shannon stop unnecessary for most Western air fleets , but Aeroflot still flies inefficient Ilyushins that ca n't make it from Moscow to Managua on one hop . 
As a result , Ireland did n't spurn the Soviets 
As a result , Ireland did n't spurn the Soviets after they shot down a Korean Air Lines jetliner over the Sea of Japan in 1983 
As a result , Ireland did n't spurn the Soviets after they shot down a Korean Air Lines jetliner over the Sea of Japan in 1983 , though it suspended direct Moscow-Shannon flights for two months . 
In fact , Aer Lingus started ferrying Russians from Shannon to New York 
Today , Aer Rianta is making a heap of money from its Soviet friendship . 
When Nucor Corp. begins shipping steel from the world 's first thin-slab plant this month , it will begin testing the competitive mettle of its giant competitors 
New , efficient and sophisticated processes make it easier for smaller , less cash-rich companies to make steel at a fraction of what Big Steel paid decades ago . 
New , efficient and sophisticated processes make it easier for smaller , less cash-rich companies to make steel at a fraction of what Big Steel paid decades ago . It also enables minimills finally to get a toehold in the flat-rolled steel market -- the major steelmakers ' largest , most prized , and until now , untouchable , market . 
In fact , they 've spent billions of dollars to boost the percentage of continously cast steel to 60.9 % in 1988 , from 39.6 % five years before . 
In fact , they 've spent billions of dollars to boost the percentage of continously cast steel to 60.9 % in 1988 , from 39.6 % five years before . Moreover , their balance sheets are rich with diversity , their old plants shuttered , and work forces lean . 
The problem : They 're saddled with huge plants that require costly maintenance . 
`` They 've got too much invested in the old stuff 
Nucor 's plant in Crawfordsville , Ind. , ultimately will produce only one million tons annually , a drop in the 40-million-ton-a-year flat-rolled steel bucket 
Nucor 's plant in Crawfordsville , Ind. , ultimately will produce only one million tons annually , a drop in the 40-million-ton-a-year flat-rolled steel bucket , and it will be years 
Nucor 's plant in Crawfordsville , Ind. , ultimately will produce only one million tons annually , a drop in the 40-million-ton-a-year flat-rolled steel bucket , and it will be years before such plants can compete in the high-profit market . 
Nucor 's plant in Crawfordsville , Ind. , ultimately will produce only one million tons annually , a drop in the 40-million-ton-a-year flat-rolled steel bucket , and it will be years before such plants can compete in the high-profit market . 
Because all operations are connected , one equipment failure forces a complete plant shutdown 
`` At this point , the minimill capacity wo n't make a great dent in the integrated market 
`` At this point , the minimill capacity wo n't make a great dent in the integrated market , but it does challenge them to develop new markets , '' says James McCall , vice president , materials , at Battelle , a technology and management-research giant based in Columbus , Ohio . 
When they determined that GM needed parts more quickly , Armco convinced a steel service center to build a processing plant nearby 
When they determined that GM needed parts more quickly , Armco convinced a steel service center to build a processing plant nearby 
Cementing such relationships with major clients -- car and appliance makers -- is a means of survival 
Cementing such relationships with major clients -- car and appliance makers -- is a means of survival , especially when those key clients are relying on a smaller pool of producers and flirting with plastic and aluminum makers . 
For example , when Detroit began talking about plastic-bodied cars , the American Iron and Steel Institute began a major lobbying effort to show auto makers how they could use steel more efficiently by simply redesigning how a car door is assembled 
Cementing such relationships with major clients -- car and appliance makers -- is a means of survival , especially when those key clients are relying on a smaller pool of producers and flirting with plastic and aluminum makers . 
Indeed , with demand for steel not growing fast enough to absorb capacity , steelmakers will have to change the way they do business . 
After letting aluminum-makers take the recycling lead , a group of the nation 's largest steelmakers started a recycling institute to promote steel cans to an environmentally conscious nation 
Battelle 's Mr. McCall thinks steelmakers should concentrate more on construction . 
After letting aluminum-makers take the recycling lead , a group of the nation 's largest steelmakers started a recycling institute to promote steel cans to an environmentally conscious nation . `` We said : ` We 've got a product : if you want it , you can buy it , ' '' he says , adding : `` Now we 're figuring out what people need , and are going back to make it . '' Still others are looking at overseas markets . 
Almost all capital-improvement programs announced by major steelmakers within the past year involve building electrogalvanizing lines , used to produce steel for such products as household appliances and car doors . 
Although he does n't expect any bankruptcies , he does see more plants being sold or closed 
`` Unless there is an enormous rate of economic growth or a further drop in the dollar , it 's unlikely that consumption of U.S. produced steel will grow sufficiently to offset the growth of minimills 
Japanese and European steelmakers , which have led the recent technology developments , are anxiously awaiting the lifting of trade restraints in 1992 . 
After 78 days of mind-numbing testimony in federal court in Boston , the trial is being all but ignored by analysts and patent attorneys . 
That may be the largest patent award ever 
The highest patent damage award to date was in 1986 , when Smith International Inc. was ordered to pay $ 205 million to Baker Hughes Inc. for infringing on a patent on an oil drilling bit seal . 
You might find something 
Few analysts think it is worth their time to slog through the Polaroid trial testimony . 
And Eugene Glazer , an analyst at Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. , said : `` If you hired an attorney to be there all the time and give you a -LRB- prediction -RRB- of the eventual award , I would be willing to bet that he would be off '' by a lot 
The main issues remaining are how to calculate damages 
`` Carr told Kodak on many occasions to avoid various features because of Polaroid 's patent positions 
Mr. Crary said testimony by Kodak 's patent counsel , Francis T. Carr of Kenyon & Kenyon , showed that `` he worked with Kodak continuously from the outset of the project '' in an effort to avoid infringement . 
The main issues remaining are how to calculate damages and whether the infringement was `` willful and deliberate . '' 
Observers also wonder whether Judge Mazzone will use the lost-profits method of determining damages , which Polaroid favors 
Polaroid claims it could have manufactured and sold all the instant cameras and film sold by Kodak if Kodak had n't entered the market . 
Moreover , Polaroid contends it could have sold them at a higher price 
Moreover , Polaroid contends it could have sold them at a higher price 
Kodak hired Robert Buzzell 
The main reason was a delay in shipment of new high-end disk drives , a business that accounts for some 10 % of IBM 's $ 60 billion of annual revenue . 
IBM , which telegraphed the poor results three weeks ago , also cited an increase in its leasing business , which tends to lock in business long-term but cut revenue in the near term . 
In addition , IBM noted that the stronger dollar has cut the value of overseas revenue and earnings 
Jay Stevens of Dean Witter actually cut his per-share earnings estimate to $ 9 from $ 9.50 for 1989 and to $ 9.50 from $ 10.35 in 1990 
Mr. Stevens said he kept a `` buy\/hold '' recommendation on the stock 
The stock closed yesterday at $ 103 a share , up just $ 1 in composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange 
`` A key part of the question is , how soon does this disk-drive come 
`` A key part of the question is , how soon does this disk-drive come and how soon does production ramp up ? '' said Steve Cohen at SoundView Financial Group . 
He said IBM has priced its leases aggressively , thinking that would help win business . 
He said IBM has not only hurt its short-term revenue outlook 
IBM is expected to get a boost soon when it announces some new versions of its mainframes . 
But the basic technology in the line is almost five years old , which means it is long in the tooth 
IBM is gaining momentum in the personal-computer market , and is expected to introduce some impressive workstations early next year . 
But it 's hard to squeeze much profit out of the personal-computer business these days 
But it 's hard to squeeze much profit out of the personal-computer business these days , and the workstation market , while important , is too small to rely on for much growth 
The disk drives will doubtless sell well 
The main reason was a delay in shipment of new high-end disk drives , a business that accounts for some 10 % of IBM 's $ 60 billion of annual revenue . 
The disk drives will doubtless sell well when they finally become available . 
But the AS\/400 , IBM 's highly successful minicomputer line , is losing its momentum 
But the AS\/400 , IBM 's highly successful minicomputer line , is losing its momentum , and some analysts said sales could even decline in the fourth quarter . 
In addition , IBM 's growth in software in the third quarter was just 8.8 % , well below historical levels 
In addition , IBM 's growth in software in the third quarter was just 8.8 % , well below historical levels even when adjusted to reflect last year 's payment from Fujitsu and the stronger dollar . 
D. Wayne Calloway , also chief executive officer of the company , indicated that he expects analysts to raise their forecasts for 1989 
PepsiCo Inc. 's chairman said he is `` more than comfortable with '' analysts ' estimates that third-quarter earnings rose to at least 98 cents to $ 1 a share from 91 cents the year earlier . 
Mr. Calloway blamed the slower volume on rainier weather , a dearth of new products in the industry and -- to a much lesser extent -- pricing . 
Same-store sales for Pizza Hut rose about 13 % , while Taco Bell 's increased 22 % 
After a four-year , $ 7.7 billion acquisition binge that brought a major soft-drink company , soda bottlers , a fast-food chain and an overseas snack-food giant to Pepsi , Mr. Calloway said he does n't expect any major acquisition in the next year or so . 
He met Mr. Bush in the 1950s , when the president was a young oil man in Midland 
The provincially owned utility said it is tearing up the deal 
`` Nothing has happened since we signed the contract to undermine our conviction that Hydro-Quebec was the lowest-cost , most environmentally acceptable choice for meeting a part of our customers ' energy needs through the year 2020 
Options traders were hurt worse than others on Friday because of the highly volatile nature of options , which often rise or fall in value several times the amount of the price change in the individual stock or index of stocks on which they are based . 
Options traders were hurt worse than others on Friday because of the highly volatile nature of options , which often rise or fall in value several times the amount of the price change in the individual stock or index of stocks on which they are based . 
Options traders who , in return for a small fee , or premium , had previously sold put options on stocks or stock indexes were forced on Friday to buy those contracts back at the previously agreed prices , which were substantially above those in the market 
Options traders who , in return for a small fee , or premium , had previously sold put options on stocks or stock indexes were forced on Friday to buy those contracts back at the previously agreed prices , which were substantially above those in the market as it was falling . 
Making matters worse was the fact that late Friday afternoon the CBOE halted stock-index options trading in step with the Chicago Mercantile Exchange 's halt in stock-index futures . 
Exchange officials reasoned that they would n't have been able to make such a rotation with the time remaining Friday afternoon 
The damage was so bad at Fossett Corp. , an options trading firm here , that it was forced to transfer its accounts to First Options of Chicago , a unit of Continental Bank Corp. , as a result of options trading losses . 
Fossett still had several million dollars in capital left after Friday 's close of trading , but not enough that regulators , worried about another potential market plunge yesterday , would let it reopen for trading , options exchange officials said . 
A federal official said that Continental Bank worked with securities and banking regulators over the weekend to fashion the Fossett bailout 
Mr. Stevens declined to give the specific contributions to the $ 50 million guarantee from each participant . 
But CBOE and Amex officials said that Options Clearing Corp. contributed $ 20 million to the guarantee , the CBOE put up $ 8 million , the Amex added $ 4 million 
Although such sessions may never replace coffee breaks , on-site massage , as it is known in the trade , is certainly infiltrating corporate America 
Ms. Foster 's indulgence is nothing like the oily , hour-long rubfests enjoyed by spa visitors . 
Nor does it at all resemble -LRB- despite what some executives think -RRB- the more intimate variety offered at specialty parlors in bad parts of town . 
Massage advocates say that kneading the head , shoulders , neck and back can go a long way toward easing tension and improving morale . 
They also insist that touching is a basic need , as powerful as the need for food or sleep 
`` The blood flows to your head , you feel lightheaded 
`` When you leave the room after your massage , people say you look like you 're glowing 
They also insist that touching is a basic need , as powerful as the need for food or sleep , and that the office is as good a place as any to do it . Massage advocates say that kneading the head , shoulders , neck and back can go a long way toward easing tension and improving morale . 
Three years ago , the Internal Revenue Service 's office in San Jose , Calif. , opened its doors to on-site massage . 
And even though employees paid the bill , taxpayers grumbled 
`` Sometimes , with the release of stress , you hear ` oohs ' and ` ahs ' coming out of the room , '' explains Morgan Banks , the agency 's health specialist . 
Last month , the complaints intensified 
Not everyone , however , is at ease with office massage . 
Some masseurs have tried to get around this by calling themselves `` bodyworkers '' and describing their office visits as `` reinvigoration breaks . '' 
But massage , no matter how chaste , is still associated in many minds with seedy fronts for prostitution 
Last year , the research and development division of Weyerhaeuser Co. , the large wood-products concern , invited a masseuse to its Tacoma , Wash. , offices . 
His massage chair is kept in a closet 
`` This is common with a lot of large companies , '' says Mr. Borner , who worked for American Telephone & Telegraph Co. for 23 years 
Elisa Byler , a St. Louis masseuse , won over officials at Emerson Electric Co. , a maker of electrical and electronic equipment , by providing documents and other articles trumpeting the therapeutic benefits of massage . 
`` The idea is to keep the clothes on 
`` It was a powerful point in my career , '' says the 31-year-old Mr. MacInnis , who has since taken out a $ 1 million liability policy for his business . 
`` But he pulled through 
`` But he pulled through , and after the ambulance left , there were still six people in line waiting for a massage 
`` But he pulled through , and after the ambulance left 
The next woman was older 
The next woman was older , and I was afraid to touch her . 
Linda Aldridge , who does full-body work in Pittsburgh , says that while on-site massage is better than nothing , tired workers should realize it is only the tip of the iceberg 
The syndicate , led by Schroders Asia Ltd. , agreed last November to provide the loan to Asia Development Corp. , a U.S. property developer . 
Lenders had doubts about the project even before June 4 
When the loan agreement was announced , it was hailed as one of the first Western-style financing transactions ever used in China 
Unlike most loans to China , there was no Chinese guarantor . 
The loan was to have matured in just two to three years 
The loan was to have matured in just two to three years , as soon as construction was completed . 
But in a letter sent in August to Asia Development , Schroders said the loan was terminated 
But in a letter sent in August to Asia Development , Schroders said the loan was terminated because the developer had failed to deliver adequate financial data and pay certain fees to the loan-management committee on time , according to officials close to the project . 
Creditors involved in the project contend , however , that the termination actually had nothing to do with these technical violations . 
The bank syndicate is made up mostly of European banks 
The 11 banks in the syndicate sustained no monetary losses 
The proposed merger comes 
The proposed merger comes as K mart 's profit is declining 
K mart tested the warehouse-club sector last year with its acquisition of a 51 % interest in Makro Inc . 
The company had losses for several years 
In the year ended Jan. 31 , Pace rang up profit of $ 9.4 million , or 72 cents a share , after a tax-loss carry-forward , on sales of $ 1.3 billion 
`` Warehouse productivity is really beginning to take off . '' 
She said , `` I would say K mart 's number one job is to address its market-share loss -LCB- in discount stores -RCB- , which longer-term will lead to improved profit margins . At that point , perhaps diversification would be appropriate . '' 
But K mart 's Mr. Antonini is intent on pushing the company into new retail businesses . 
For instance , K mart is opening big food and general merchandise stores , called hypermarkets , and warehouse-type stores specializing in office products and sporting goods . 
Traders nervously watching their Quotron electronic-data machines yesterday morning were stunned to see the Dow Jones Industrial Average plummet 99 points in seconds . 
The prices of the individual stocks that make up the average were correct 
The Quotrons were wrong . 
Holly Stark , a vice president who heads the trading desk at Dillon Read Capital Corp. , said that once she figured out the Quotron numbers were wrong , she called brokers to tell them 
To confuse matters further , when UAL Corp. stock finally opened on the New York Stock Exchange at 11:08 a.m. , the price was listed at $ 324.75 a share , up about $ 45 from Friday 
To confuse matters further , when UAL Corp. stock finally opened on the New York Stock Exchange at 11:08 a.m. , the price was listed at $ 324.75 a share , up about $ 45 from Friday 
That was the New York Stock Exchange 's blooper . 
When the market opened at 9:30 a.m. EST , a reporter for the Reuters newswire miscalculated the industrial average 's drop as a 4 % decline when it really was down 0.7 % 
When the market opened at 9:30 a.m. EST , a reporter for the Reuters newswire miscalculated the industrial average 's drop as a 4 % decline 
When the market opened at 9:30 a.m. EST , a reporter for the Reuters newswire miscalculated the industrial average 's drop as a 4 % decline when it really was down 0.7 % . 
Meanwhile , some currency traders at West German banks in Frankfurt said they sold dollars on the news 
Meanwhile , some currency traders at West German banks in Frankfurt said they sold dollars on the news and had to buy them back later at higher prices . 
Dillon Read 's Ms. Stark said in early afternoon that she was still viewing prices and other data as subject to verification 
She said Quotron switched to a backup system 
It turns out Mr. Friend 's client , Machelle Parks of Cincinnati , did n't like the way defense attorney Tom Alexander acted during the legal proceedings . 
So she has agreed to forgo monetary damages against Mr. Alexander 's client in return for the right to punch the attorney . 
Last month , Mr. Friend says , Mr. Alexander 's associate agreed that Derr would pay $ 50,000 as part of an overall settlement . 
When Ms. Parks and her mother heard about what had happened , Mr. Friend says , they volunteered that they would like to give Mr. Alexander a good walloping 
Mr. Friend says he passed that along to his adversary 
Mr. Friend says he passed that along to his adversary , and soon they were talking about the ground rules under which Derr could keep its money 
Although time and place have yet to be determined , some details are in place 
Although they do n't contemplate delivering any disabling blows , he says that Mr. Alexander will be asked to sign a release from liability , just in case 
As financial markets rebounded , trading volume in the Chicago Mercantile Exchange 's huge Standard & Poor 's 500 stock-index futures pit soared 
The sudden influx of liquidity enabled several traders to reap six-figure windfalls in a matter of minutes 
Since the crash , many futures traders have n't assumed large positions for fear that the S&P 500 market , with much of its customer order flow missing , would dry up 
Traders were shouting bids and offers 
The contract fell five points at the open to 323.85 , the maximum opening move allowed under safeguards adopted by the Merc to stem a market slide . 
Brokerage firms as a rule do n't comment on their market activity . 
The market for $ 200 billion of high-yield junk bonds regained some of its footing 
The market for $ 200 billion of high-yield junk bonds regained some of its footing as the Dow Jones Industrial Average rebounded from Friday 's plunge . 
On Friday , trading in practically every issue ground to a halt 
On Friday , trading in practically every issue ground to a halt as potential buyers fled 
`` Nothing traded on Friday 
`` Nothing traded on Friday , and people were n't really sure where the market should have opened '' yesterday , said Raymond Minella , co-head of merchant banking at Merrill Lynch & Co . 
`` Now , I feel maybe there 's a little bit of euphoria . '' 
But before the stock market rebounded from a sharp early sell-off yesterday , he said , `` You could n't buy -LCB- junk bonds -RCB- and you could n't give them away 
But before the stock market rebounded from a sharp early sell-off yesterday , he said , `` You could n't buy -LCB- junk bonds 
Yesterday 's rally was led by RJR Holdings 13 3\/4 % bonds , which initially tumbled three points , or $ 30 for each $ 1,000 face amount , to 96 1\/4 
Yesterday 's rally was led by RJR Holdings 13 3\/4 % bonds , which initially tumbled three points , or $ 30 for each $ 1,000 face amount , to 96 1\/4 before rebounding to 99 3\/4 . 
Yesterday 's rally was led by RJR Holdings 13 3\/4 % bonds , which initially tumbled three points , or $ 30 for each $ 1,000 face amount , to 96 1\/4 before rebounding to 99 3\/4 . Bonds issued by Kroger , Duracell , Safeway and American Standard also showed big gains , recovering almost all their losses from Friday and early yesterday . 
Paul Asquith , associate professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology 's Sloan School of Management , citing a pattern of junk-bond default rates that are low in the early years after issuance 
`` It 's possible to have a 10 % default rate in one year 
`` You could still have some very bad times ahead , '' said Mr. Bachmann . 
Many issues `` bounced off the floor 
Many issues `` bounced off the floor , '' Mr. Minella said , and benchmark junk issues `` recovered all of their losses '' from Friday and early yesterday . 
In contrast , he says , `` The stock market gained back only about half what it lost Friday 
Traders said yesterday 's rally was fueled by insurance companies looking for bargains after a drastic slide in prices the past month . 
Donald Trump , who faced rising doubt about his bid for American Airlines parent AMR 
Donald Trump , who faced rising doubt about his bid for American Airlines parent AMR Corp. even before a United Airlines buy-out came apart Friday , withdrew his $ 7.54 billion offer . 
Separately , bankers representing the group trying to buy United 's parent UAL Corp. met with other banks about reviving that purchase at a lower price , possibly around $ 250 a share , or $ 5.65 billion . 
The Manhattan real-estate developer acted 
News about UAL and AMR , whose shares never reopened 
UAL tumbled $ 56.875 to $ 222.875 on volume of 2.3 million shares 
UAL tumbled $ 56.875 to $ 222.875 on volume of 2.3 million shares , and AMR declined by $ 22.125 to $ 76.50 
Some said Friday 's market debacle had given Mr. Trump an excuse to bail out of an offer that showed signs of stalling 
After reaching an intraday high of $ 107.50 the day Mr. Trump disclosed his bid Oct. 5 , AMR 's stock had retreated as low as $ 97.75 last week 
Some takeover stock traders had been betting against Mr. Trump 
Mr. Trump withdrew his bid 
AMR had weighed a wide range of possible responses , from flat rejection to recapitalizations and leveraged buy-outs that might have included either employees , a friendlier buyer such as Texas billionaire Robert Bass , or both . 
AMR declined to comment 
In an attempt to persuade investors that his bid was n't just `` a stock play , '' Mr. Trump promised last week to notify the market 
Assuming that he paid a rough average price of $ 80 a share , and assuming he did n't sell 
Some analysts said AMR Chairman Robert Crandall might seize the opportunity presented by the stock price drop to protect the nation 's largest airline with a defensive transaction , such as the sale of stock to a friendly holder or company employees . 
Some analysts said they believed Mr. Trump , whose towering ego had been viewed by some as a reason to believe he would n't back out , might come back with a lower bid . 
Mr. Trump , who vowed Wednesday to `` go forward '' with the bid , said he was dropping it `` in light of the recent change in market conditions . '' He said he might now sell his AMR stake , buy more shares , or make another offer at a lower price . 
Officials familiar with the talks said Citicorp had discussed lowering the offer to $ 250 a share 
Officials familiar with the talks said Citicorp had discussed lowering the offer to $ 250 a share , but said that price was a talking point 
The first UAL deal unraveled 
Citibank and Chase had agreed to commit $ 3 billion 
Together , Citicorp and Chase received $ 8 million in fees to raise the rest of the financing . 
Officials familiar with the bank talks said the UAL buy-out group -- UAL pilots , management , and British Airways PLC -- is now willing to pay higher bank fees and interest , but is n't likely to boost its $ 965 million equity contribution . 
UAL 's board could reject the new price as too low , especially since there are n't any competing bids . 
The pilot union is vowing to pursue an acquisition whatever the board decides . 
The pilots could play hardball by noting they are crucial to any sale or restructuring 
If they were to insist on a low bid of , say $ 200 a share , the board might n't be able to obtain a higher offer from other bidders 
If they were to insist on a low bid of , say $ 200 a share , the board might n't be able to obtain a higher offer from other bidders 
The pilots could play hardball by noting they are crucial to any sale or restructuring because they can refuse to fly the airplanes . If they were to insist on a low bid of , say $ 200 a share , the board might n't be able to obtain a higher offer from other bidders because banks might hesitate to finance a transaction the pilots oppose . 
Also , because UAL Chairman Stephen Wolf and other UAL executives have joined the pilots ' bid , the board might be forced to exclude him from its deliberations 
