Also excluded will be investments in companies with `` significant '' business stemming from weapons manufacture , alcoholic beverages or tobacco . 
The fund also might buy and sell futures and options contracts , subject to approval by the New York State Insurance Department . 
. 
if they want to work a lot , because their repertoire and audience appeal are limited . 
, because their repertoire and audience appeal are limited . 
, so he does n't have to play the same Mozart and Strauss concertos over and over again . 
-LRB- though a touch of the old Tashi still survives -RRB- and now goes on the road with piano , bass , a slide show , and a repertoire that ranges from light classical to light jazz to light pop , with a few notable exceptions . 
But you ca n't dismiss Mr. Stoltzman 's music or his motives as merely commercial and lightweight . 
, and he plays superbly . 
, and that it was his mother 's birthday , so he was going to play her favorite tune from the record . 
, so he was going to play her favorite tune from the record . 
Then , as if to show that he could play fast as well , he offered the second movement from Saint-Saens 's Sonata for Clarinet , a whimsical , puckish tidbit that reflected the flip side of the Stoltzman personality . 
. 
And so it went through the first half : an ingeniously chosen potpourri of pieces , none longer than five minutes , none that would disturb or challenge a listener . 
, '' and then built on the image by joining with Mr. Douglas in some Bach two-part inventions , cleverly arranged for clarinet and bassoon by Mr. Douglas . 
Keeping the mood light , the two then chanted and chortled their way through some murderous polyrhythms , devised by Mr. Douglas as an alternative to Hindemith 's dry theory-teaching techniques , and then , with Mr. Gomez , soared and improvised on the composer 's tight `` Bebop Etudes . '' 
, devised by Mr. Douglas as an alternative to Hindemith 's dry theory-teaching techniques , and then , with Mr. Gomez , soared and improvised on the composer 's tight `` Bebop Etudes . '' 
The end of the first half , however , brought what the standing-room-only crowd seemed to be waiting for : the pop singer Judy Collins , who appears on `` Inner Voices . '' 
`` Deep Peace '' also featured a slide show of lovely but predictable images of clouds , beaches , deserts , sunsets , etc . 
, but they probably would have gotten away with it , had they not felt compelled to add Ms. Collins 's signature tune , `` Amazing Grace , '' and ask for audience participation . 
Or was it because Ms. Collins had gone ? 
because Ms. Collins had gone ? 
, because Mr. Stolzman offered the most substantial music of the evening just after intermission : Steve Reich 's `` New York Counterpoint , '' one of a series of Reich works that juxtapose a live performer with recorded tracks of his or her own playing . 
He also unfortunately illustrated this intricate , jazzy tapestry with Mr. Pearson 's images , this time of geometric or repeating objects , in a kitschy mirroring of the musical structure that was thoroughly distracting from Mr. Reich 's piece and Mr. Stoltzman 's elegant execution of it . 
, but like the first half , much of it was easy to take and ultimately forgettable . 
, but can audiences really enjoy them only if the music is purged of threatening elements , served up in bite-sized morsels and accompanied by visuals ? 
only if the music is purged of threatening elements , served up in bite-sized morsels and accompanied by visuals ? 
But it was neither deep nor lasting : light entertainment that was no substitute for an evening of Brahms . 
In fact , he liberated the U.S. from one of the world 's most corrupt organizations -- UNESCO . 
Ever since , the remaining members have been desperate for the United States to rejoin this dreadful group . 
But we can think of many reasons to stay out for the foreseeable future and well beyond . 
when its anti-Western ideology , financial corruption and top leadership got out of hand . 
and when a mysterious office fire was set just before Congress sent accountants to trace U.S. funds . 
, such as when several of his top aides were uncovered as KGB plants and ejected from France and when a mysterious office fire was set just before Congress sent accountants to trace U.S. funds . 
just before Congress sent accountants to trace U.S. funds . 
, but even his replacement , the more personally genial Spanish biochemist Federico Mayor , has had little success at achieving reforms . 
, but Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze last year admitted , `` The exaggerated ideological approach undermined tolerance intrinsic to UNESCO . '' 
, and a hard-line Polish communist in exile directs the human-rights and peace division . 
only when delivered through U.N. organizations -- which of course are made up largely of governments that fear these principles at home . 
, but there 's no reason to cloud the importance and allure of Western concepts of freedom and justice . 
The gene thus can prevent a plant from fertilizing itself . 
Such so-called male-sterile plants can then be fertilized by pollen from another strain of the plant , thereby producing hybrid seed . 
, thereby producing hybrid seed . 
because the male part , the tassel , and the female , the ear , are some distance apart on the corn plant . 
, which then pollinate the male-sterile plants . 
and they yielded as much as 20 % more corn than naturally pollinated plants . 
, and one-third of rice produced in that country is grown from hybrid seeds . 
just before the pollen is about to develop and it deactivates the anthers of every flower in the plant . 
and it deactivates the anthers of every flower in the plant . 
The researchers also pulled off a second genetic engineering trick in order to get male-sterile plants in large enough numbers to produce a commercial hybrid seed crop . 
Both genes are then inserted into a few greenhouse plants , which are then pollinated and allowed to mature and produce seed . 
, which are then pollinated and allowed to mature and produce seed . 
and half will be male fertile and herbicide susceptible . 
, which costs U.S. seed producers about $ 70 million annually . 
But there have been problems with chemical sprays damaging plants ' female reproductive organs and concern for the toxicity of such chemical sprays to humans , animals and beneficial insects . 
However , Paul Johanson , Monsanto 's director of plant sciences , said the company 's chemical spray overcomes these problems and is `` gentle on the female organ . '' 
because pollination , while easy in corn because the carrier is wind , is more complex and involves insects as carriers in crops such as cotton . 
. 
because the carrier is wind , is more complex and involves insects as carriers in crops such as cotton . 
, and another to then successfully pollinate the plant , '' he said . 
Nevertheless , he said , he is negotiating with Plant Genetic to acquire the technology to try breeding hybrid cotton . 
until those debts are repaid , most banks refused even to play administrative roles in the new financing , forcing an embarrassed Nomura to postpone it this week . 
With Japan 's cash-flush banks aligned against it , though , raising money may be difficult . 
, bankers here say , but as the largest underwriters in the Eurobond market , they might be able to scuttle borrowings there , too . 
and I am not about to be blackmailed by Japanese banks or any other international interests . '' 
, and relations have been at a flashpoint for months . 
Meanwhile , the securities companies -- most of them smaller than the banks -- are seeking access only to limited kinds of banking that would n't open them to the full brunt of competition from the banks . 
And their suspicions of each other run deep . 
And Industrial Bank of Japan started up a London securities subsidiary that sells Japanese stocks to non-Japanese institutions overseas , a move that stirred the anger of the stock brokerage firms . 
But for the next few months , these boys of summers long past are going to be reveling in an Indian summer of the soul . 
. 
. 
while lying on a beach in Australia . 
. 
because life behind the plate is so rough . -RRB- 
But as they hurl fireballs that smolder rather than burn , and relive old duels in the sun , it 's clear that most are there to make their fans cheer again or recapture the camaraderie of seasons past or prove to themselves and their colleagues that they still have it -- or something close to it . 
. 
. '' 
, but it proves to me that I would have been able to play if I 'd stayed healthy , '' he says . 
if I 'd stayed healthy , '' he says . 
before and after training with the Tropics . 
. 
and that will be the end of the whole story . '' 
But the ballplayers disagree . 
, but most appear to be in their late 30s . -RRB- 
And there 's pride . 
as he prepares for some practice swings . 
Nonetheless , one ca n't help wonder whether the game will be just a little bit slower . 
So he adjusts . 
Still , `` how sweet it is , '' he says , savoring the fat sound of the well-hit line drive that bounces off the center field wall . 
And do n't expect many complete games by pitchers -- perhaps three out of 288 , laughs Mr. Fingers , the former Oakland reliever . 
, '' he says . 
And expect slower fastballs . 
, but I will throw 80-plus , '' he says . 
But he is n't worried . 
Mr. Zayadi was previously president and chief operating officer of Zellers Inc. , a retail chain that is owned by Toronto-based Hudson 's Bay Co. , Canada 's largest department store operator . 
Separately , Statistics Canada reported that its industrial-product price index dropped 0.2 % in September , its third consecutive monthly decline . 
It also reported a 2.6 % decline in its raw-materials price index for September . 
because the stock is undervalued . 
as long as Jaguar shareholders agree . 
But the government 's action , which caught Jaguar management flat-footed , may scuttle the GM minority deal by forcing it to fight for all of Jaguar . 
before Ford 's Sept. 19 announcement of its interest in a minority stake . 
But it is n't clear how long GM would be willing to fight Ford for Jaguar . 
, or there only may be one player in town , '' one person said . 
if an out-and-out bidding war were to start now . '' 
U.S. auto analysts also noted that Ford is in the best position to benefit from the large number of Jaguar shares that have moved over the past month into the hands of arbitragers waiting for the highest takeover bid . 
, analysts add , because fewer than 3 % of its shares are owned by employees and management . 
But GM officials said they , too , were surprised by the move , which left them to `` consider all our options and explore matters further . '' 
. 
, because management had believed the government would n't lift the golden share without consulting the company first . 
Indeed , the government is taking a calculated risk . 
after selling its stake in Jaguar in 
so the playing field is level between all contestants . '' 
and analysts say the market could continue to soften in the months ahead . 
London shares also rose , while trading in Frankfurt , West Germany , ended higher . 
, while trading in Frankfurt , West Germany , ended higher . 
, while 208 issues were unchanged . 
But other sectors failed to attract investor interest and remained sluggish , making overall trading appear mixed . 
as increased anticipation of inflation followed rising consumer prices reported last week . 
although supply has been increasing . 
The gains also sparked buying interest in other real-estate companies , traders said . 
But trading was very sketchy , as investment decision makers remain wary from gyrations and upsets of recent weeks . 
, as investment decision makers remain wary from gyrations and upsets of recent weeks . 
Meanwhile , the broad-based Financial Times 100-share index added 30.4 points to end at 2142.6 , while reaching its minimum of 2120.5 a half hour into the session . 
, while reaching its minimum of 2120.5 a half hour into the session . 
The market also moved at early afternoon on news that Jaguar shares were being temporarily suspended at 746 pence -LRB- $ 11.80 -RRB- each . 
But although the golden share has been waived , a hostile bidder for Jaguar would still have to alter the British concern 's articles of association which ban shareholdings of more than 15 % . 
. 
, with new Chancellor of the Exchequer John Major expected to clarify his approach to the British economy and currency issues . 
, as selective buying by foreigners helped propel prices . 
Additionally , the end of the month position-squaring might have also played a minor role , traders said . 
Additionally , the end of the month position-squaring might have also played a minor role , traders said . 
As a result , consumer prices for the first 10 months of 1989 surged by 5 % and wholesale prices by 1.3 % . 
and wholesale prices by 1.3 % . 
But when market interest rates move up rapidly , increases in bank CD yields sometimes lag . 
. 
Most yields on short-term jumbo CDs , those with denominations over $ 90,000 , also moved in the opposite direction of Treasury bill yields . 
However , CDs sold through major broker-dealer networks were up slightly almost across the board . 
The average six-month CD in that category added 0.05 percentage point to 8.35 % , for example . 
Still , on average , the major California banks have the highest yields on CDs , according to Banxquote . 
when the monsieur avec clipboard leaned over my shoulder during the coffee phase of dinner and asked whether I wanted to ride in a montgolfiere . 
and so far the festivities had been taken up entirely by eating , drinking , smoking , sleeping and drinking . 
But as the French embody a Zen-like state of blase when it comes to athletics -LRB- try finding a Nautilus machine in Paris -RRB- , my fellow conventioners were having none of it . 
. 
when it comes to athletics -LRB- try finding a Nautilus machine in Paris -RRB- , my fellow conventioners were having none of it . 
But in Epinal , a gray 16th-century river town adjacent to France 's Vosges mountain region , none of these Yankee-come-lately enthusiasms for things aloft was evident . 
They will also tell you that even if you hate heights , you can still balloon . 
. 
, you can still balloon . 
At least not when you are ascending . -RRB- 
while watching the balloons inflate and lots of standing around deciding who would fly in what balloon and in what order -LRB- the baskets hold no more than four passengers -RRB- . 
, '' listening to the driver holler into a walkie-talkie . 
and the French cows amble about the fields . 
, even if your pilote in silly plaid beret kept pointing out how `` belle '' it all was . 
And neither can your pilot . 
and most average a leisurely 5-10 miles an hour . 
. 
. 
as our basket plunged into the canal . 
before he plunged us into the drink again . 
while the French half of our ballooning tag team scrambled in . 
We finally rendezvoused with our balloon , which had come to rest on a dirt road amid a clutch of Epinalers who watched us disassemble our craft -- another half-an-hour of non-flight activity -- that included the precision routine of yanking the balloon to the ground , punching all the air out of it , rolling it up and cramming it and the basket into the trailer . 
and it was followed by our driving immediately to the nearest watering hole . 
while we sat under Cinzano umbrellas , me nursing an espresso and my ego . 
Still , I figured the event 's envy-quotient back in the U.S.A. was near peerless . 
. 
. '' 
Mr. Mulford , responding to critics of intervention , also said intervention is `` highly visible , '' is taken seriously by financial markets and works better than `` was recognized some time ago . '' 
and instead asked to appear after the Treasury official had completed his testimony . 
after the Treasury official had completed his testimony . 
Mr. Johnson also said that `` in the scheme of things , these things are minor . '' 
But because the growth of the German economy has been stronger than expected , Mr. Mulford said , it 's difficult for the U.S. to argue that Germany ought to adopt more stimulative monetary and fiscal policies . 
. 
But nonetheless U.S. companies might be more successful in European markets if not for the German export push , he said . 
But nonetheless U.S. companies might be more successful in European markets if not for the German export push , he said . 
, while three others retired . 
Concerns about the pace of the Vienna talks -- which are aimed at the destruction of some 100,000 weapons , as well as major reductions and realignments of troops in central Europe -- also are being registered at the Pentagon . 
But some American defense officials believe the North Atlantic Treaty Organization should take more time to examine the long-term implications of the options being considered . 
once Soviet armored forces are thinned out . 
unless the West retains a residual force of nuclear weapons in Europe . 
But even though NATO negotiators have only 10 months left under the Bush timetable , they are still wrestling over such seemingly fundamental questions as `` What is a tank ? '' 
'' 
, while the U.S. would lose none because it has no light tanks in Europe . 
because it has no light tanks in Europe . 
But the issue is stickier than it seems . 
And some U.S. Army analysts worry that the proposed Soviet redefinition is aimed at blocking the U.S. from developing lighter , more transportable , high-technology tanks . 
, then argued for exempting some 4,000 Russian planes because they are `` solely defensive . '' 
because they are `` solely defensive . '' 
, '' and only President Bush and Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev may be able to resolve it . 
Greece and Turkey , for example , are suspected of overstating their arsenals in hopes that they can emerge from the arms-reduction treaty with large remaining forces to deter each other . 
if you miss 50 tanks somewhere ? '' asks Rep. Norman Dicks -LRB- D. , Wash. -RRB- , a member of the House group that visited the talks in Vienna . 
. 
The move also reflects Coke 's eagerness to have a hand in developing the soft-drink markets in Pacific Basin countries . 
because when Coke looks to the Pacific area , it sees an economic and demographic gold mine . 
. 
And unlike Europe and the U.S. , where populations are aging , the Pacific Basin countries have growing proportions of youths -- the heaviest consumers of Coca-Cola and other sodas . 
, or how much the company would invest in the transaction . 
In the past , however , Coke has typically taken a minority stake in such ventures . 
when results were sluggish in a given country . 
And combining Fraser & Neave 's own soft drinks with Coca-Cola 's gives the Singapore company more than half the share of the soda market there , Coke said . 
, which in turn owns approximately 40 % of Fiat , Italy 's biggest private-sector industrial group . 
The Aga Khan , meanwhile , agreed to trade some of his stake in Luxembourg-based Ifint S.A. , another Agnelli family company , for 7.45 % of Giovanni Agnelli & Co. 's capital . 
, while IFI owns 23 % . 
Its capital will also be raised to 232.4 billion lire -LRB- $ 172.5 million -RRB- from the current 204.3 billion lire . 
, but an IFI spokesman said no cash would change hands . 
Mr. Agnelli and the Aga Khan also have some business ties , and a spokesman for the Agnelli company did n't rule out that the current agreement could lead to further collaboration . 
, and a spokesman for the Agnelli company did n't rule out that the current agreement could lead to further collaboration . 
For instance , Ifint earlier this year bought an 18 % stake in Alisarda , the Aga Khan 's airline , which flies between Italy and Sardinia . 
And it treats such activities in a frivolous , cavalier fashion , with total indifference to common sense and public safety . 
Employers could also pay a subminimum `` training wage '' for 90 days to new workers who are up to 19 years old , and then for another 90 days if the company institutes a specific training program for the newcomers . 
, and then for another 90 days if the company institutes a specific training program for the newcomers . 
if the company institutes a specific training program for the newcomers . 
. 
, while the training subminimum would be shorter , unless it is tied to a training plan . 
, unless it is tied to a training plan . 
, while new workers need far less than six months to be trained for their jobs . 
, and their soundings showed that the Senate appeared to be heading toward enough strength to override another Bush veto , a Democratic staff official said . 
`` if we 'd held their feet to the fire . '' 
, but he cited concessions from the White House on the training wage , which he said make it `` less harsh . '' 
. '' 
, so the youth are not exploited and older workers are not displaced . '' 
and older workers are not displaced . '' 
and no new generating facilities will be required for several years , Moody 's said . 
but one analyst estimated that it was $ 150 million . 
The move also would allow the company to concentrate on core businesses , which include ceramic tile , floor coverings and furniture . 
Moreover , such a sale could help Armstrong reassure its investors and deter the Belzbergs , who own a 9.85 % stake in the Lancaster , Pa. , company . 
so that it could make stain-resistant products with higher quality dyes . 
, but economists said the report offered little new information on the degree to which the U.S. economy is slowing . 
However , it does n't give much of a clue as to whether a recession is on the horizon . 
. 
, but monthly changes in this measure are even less reliable than those in other economic indicators . 
. 
The department also said it takes four months to establish a trend . 
Meanwhile , the National Association of Manufacturers said yesterday a recent poll of 53 executives on its board found that 61 % do n't expect a recession to occur until 1991 or later . 
. 
even if that means higher rates . 
Citicorp also said that the average rate rose to 8.0087 % at its $ 50 million auction of 182-day commercial paper from 7.962 % at last week 's sale . 
, but it 's unlikely . 
It 's also unnecessary . 
He also is an entertaining writer , combining wisecracks and wordplay with programmatic detail and lucid explanations of how computers work . 
, but the KGB in East Berlin was willing to pay two of his associates , Peter Carl and Dirk Brezinski , $ 15,000 for some of the material Hess collected . 
. 
and he was asked to switch to helping run the lab 's computers . 
But after much tracking , it became evident to Mr. Stoll , through various clues , that the hacker was not on the Berkeley campus or even in California . 
so that he could monitor all the telephone lines coming into the lab 's computers . 
. 
when Sventek came on the line . 
, calling up other systems managers to alert them but keeping his own system open to avoid arousing suspicion . 
. 
, and he had the impression other federal security agencies were tangled up in legal red tape . 
'' because it 's possible that the CIA and the National Security Agency were more interested than they let on to Mr. Stoll . 
, ultimately tracing the hacker to West Germany . 
The West Germans then took over and finally found Markus Hess . 
The West Germans then took over and finally found Markus Hess . 
The closely held Sunnyvale , Calif. , company also will announce an agreement to supply computers to Control Data Corp. , which will sell Mips machines under its own label . 
Mips also wants to wedge into markets other than traditional RISC applications such as engineering ; Mips said the new machine will also be used by businesses and for communications . 
because it gives the the five-year-old company one more ally as it battles more established electronic concerns such as Sun , Hewlett-Packard Co. , Motorola Inc. and Intel Corp. for the emerging market for RISC machines . 
as it battles more established electronic concerns such as Sun , Hewlett-Packard Co. , Motorola Inc. and Intel Corp. for the emerging market for RISC machines . 
Last month , for example , Mips agreed to supply its computers to Nixdorf Computer AG of West Germany and France 's Groupe Bull . 
and companies such as Japan 's NEC Corp. and West Germany 's Siemens A.G. have agreed to make Mips chips under license . 
Instead , the GAO and the Congressional Budget Office said , the RTC should consider using Treasury debt , which is less expensive and subject to oversight by Congress . 
as assets of sick thrifts are sold . 
But higher interest rates paid on off-budget debt could add billions to the bailout costs , and would n't be subject to congressional scrutiny , Ways and Means members argued . 
, but that is a net cost . 
In the meantime , the agency must raise cash to maintain assets , such as real estate , until they can be sold . 
, until they can be sold . 
Then the short-term debt is paid off through the proceeds of selling the assets . 
, then hold the assets until they can be sold under favorable conditions . 
until they can be sold under favorable conditions . 
, but the administration does n't want it to be included on the federal budget , because it would `` distort '' the budget process by requiring either exemptions from Gramm-Rudman or big increases in the budget deficit . 
, because it would `` distort '' the budget process by requiring either exemptions from Gramm-Rudman or big increases in the budget deficit . 
But the worst possibility would be raising no working capital , he said . 
. 
, unless you 're the pastry chef of this city 's Chez Panisse restaurant and you 've just lost your priceless personal dessert notebook . 
and you 've just lost your priceless personal dessert notebook . 
when it was stolen from her house recently . 
Instead , they figure the culprit probably took money from Ms. Shere 's wallet and discarded all the tips in the five-by-eight-inch looseleaf . 
Still , the restaurant 's ever-changing menu of five-course dinners -- it supposedly has n't repeated a meal since opening in 1971 -- requires constant improvisation . 
since opening in 1971 -- requires constant improvisation . 
And that puts added pressure on Chez Panisse dessert-menu planners . 
, but she has received moral support from Baker 's Dozen , a group of California pastry chefs that meets regularly to discuss issues like how to keep meringues from weeping and how bovine eating habits affect butter texture . 
when you consider how many things are made out of eggs and butter and milk . 
, but Mr. Weekes has said that Mr. Hollander wanted to have his own team . 
The Wilmington , Mass. , garment service company also boosted its quarterly dividend 20 % to three cents a share adjusted for the split . 
Separately , UniFirst reported that net income rose 21 % to $ 3 million , or 29 cents a share adjusted for the split , for the fourth quarter ended Aug. 26 . 
In addition , Healthcare agreed to make monthly rent and mortgage payments of $ 2.7 million to $ 3 million to HealthVest during the standstill period , to be paid when Healthcare successfully completes asset sales . 
when Healthcare successfully completes asset sales . 
. 
because Healthcare has n't made complete rent and mortgage payments since July . 
because it completed a transaction with Greenery Rehabilitation Group Inc. in which Greenery purchased stock and warrants for $ 500,000 and loaned Healthcare $ 9 million . 
But the Reserve Fund , America 's first money fund , was not named , nor were the creators of the money-fund concept , Harry Brown and myself . 
, nor were the creators of the money-fund concept , Harry Brown and myself . 
as 300 local and state dignitaries packed into his elegant , marble-columned courtroom here last year for his swearing in as President Judge of Cambria County . 
. 
But then Judge O'Kicki often behaved like a man who would be king -- and , some say , an arrogant and abusive one . 
But then Judge O'Kicki often behaved like a man who would be king -- and , some say , an arrogant and abusive one . 
. 
after pocketing a $ 500 bribe . 
while wearing nothing at all . 
. 
Even if only some of the allegations stand up , however , they provide ample testimony to the awesome power of judges in rural communities . 
, particularly since jurists in smaller jurisdictions operate without many of the restraints that serve as corrective measures in urban areas . 
As a result , says Mr. Geiger , lawyers think twice before appealing a judge 's ruling , are reluctant to mount , or even support , challenges against him for re-election and are usually loath to file complaints that might impugn a judge 's integrity . 
before appealing a judge 's ruling , are reluctant to mount , or even support , challenges against him for re-election and are usually loath to file complaints that might impugn a judge 's integrity . 
It was also in law school that Mr. O'Kicki and his first wife had the first of seven daughters . 
; in 1981 , he was effectively re-elected . 
And when he ran unsuccessfully for a state appellate court seat in 1983 , the Pennsylvania Bar Association rated him `` one of the best available , '' after interviewing local lawyers . 
. 
, '' after interviewing local lawyers . 
, shortly after the scandal became public . 
. '' 
when he visited . 
. 
, he told the grand jury , until the judge walked up to him after the courtroom had cleared and suggested a kickback . 
after the courtroom had cleared and suggested a kickback . 
But he did n't complain to the state 's Judicial Inquiry and Review Board , either , saying later that he feared retribution . 
But he did n't complain to the state 's Judicial Inquiry and Review Board , either , saying later that he feared retribution . 
And no one with a complaint about the judge would allow his name to be printed . 
, and I think that 's what you 're going to find from everyone else you talk to up here , '' says local attorney Edward F. Peduzzi . 
when you live in a small community . 
until the lid is sealed tightly shut . '' 
, while scribbling notes ordering spectators to stop whispering or to take off their hats in his courtroom . 
after they defied his order to extend the school year by several weeks to make up for time lost during a teachers ' strike . 
until mandatory retirement would force aside the presiding president judge , giving Judge O'Kicki the seniority required to take over as the county 's top court administrator . 
when he bought a new red Pontiac Sunbird in October 1984 , according to the grand-jury report . 
Yet , despite the judge 's imperial bearing , no one ever had reason to suspect possible wrongdoing , says John Bognato , president of Cambria County 's 150-member bar association . 
. '' 
, after the state attorney general 's office launched an unrelated investigation into corruption in Cambria County . 
. 
Then , as an additional precaution , the car dealership took the judge 's photograph as he stood next to his new car with sales papers in hand -- proof that he had received the loan documents . 
as he stood next to his new car with sales papers in hand -- proof that he had received the loan documents . 
But when the judge received his payment book , he disavowed the deal . 
. 
Later , the judge went a step farther . 
. 
, and I am not inclined to extend myself as far as any favors are concerned , '' the judge wrote back in a letter attached to the grand jury 's report . 
... . '' 
before it could be resold . 
, although he contends that if he were as corrupt as state prosecutors believe , he would be far wealthier than he is . 
. 
, '' says the judge . 
, but that only 1.4 % of it comes from recycled paper . 
By contrast , the Los Angeles Times , for example , uses 83 % recycled paper . 
if the Securities and Exchange Commission approves this as the effective date of the registration statement . 
and which the company said would be used for acquisitions and other general corporate purposes . 
However , the maximum coupon at which the notes can be reset is 16 1\/4 % . 
, and 75 % of the loans are covered by a General Electric pool policy covering losses of as much as 10 % of the original principal balance of the loans . 
, and also has operations in Belgium . 
Separately , EG&G said it sold most of its Mason Research Institute subsidiary to Transgenic Sciences Inc. , a closely held biotechnology company based in Worcester , Mass . 
after his assets are liquidated . 
after the IRS broke off negotiations with Mr. Hunt on a settlement of the one-time tycoon 's personal bankruptcy case . 
. 
, it also means that Mr. Hunt could be stripped of virtually all of his assets if the Tax Court rules against him in a 1982 case heard earlier this year in Washington , D.C . 
if the Tax Court rules against him in a 1982 case heard earlier this year in Washington , D.C . 
Separately , a federal judge hearing Mr. Hunt 's bankruptcy case yesterday turned down a proposed $ 65.7 million settlement between Mr. Hunt and Minpeco S.A. , another major creditor in the case . 
and 30 % would go to other creditors . 
But they have been at odds over how much Mr. Hunt would owe the government after his assets are sold . 
after his assets are sold . 
but Mr. Hunt would agree to no more than $ 60 million . 
if he had settled with the IRS . 
`` But they wanted to roll the dice and we 're going to let them , '' Mr. Hartt said . 
and we 're going to let them , '' Mr. Hartt said . 
But it marks a big change for the Japanese , who shunned mortgage securities after getting burned by a big downturn in interest rates a few years back . 
after getting burned by a big downturn in interest rates a few years back . 
, but we 're making some headway , '' says Fannie Mae 's chairman , David O. Maxwell , who visits Tokyo at least once a year to explain and drum up investor interest in mortgage securities . 
And a Fannie Mae seminar this week promises to draw hundreds of prospective investors , who can be expected to channel tens of billions of dollars into the market in the next few years . 
Ultimately , he says , strong demand could help to drive down interest rates on mortgage securities . 
But other Japanese institutions say privately that they are considering asking to join the 59-dealer selling group . 
. 
if necessary . 
But there is a risk , which the Japanese discovered when they first dipped their toes into the market nearly five years ago . 
when they first dipped their toes into the market nearly five years ago . 
. 
, since it forces them to reinvest their money -- usually at lower rates than the original mortgage securities carried . 
`` So they were surprised and very disappointed by prepayment . '' 
, since most mortgages require homeowners to make monthly payments . 
But Japanese institutional investors are used to quarterly or semiannual payments on their investments , so the monthly cash flow posed administrative problems . 
, so the monthly cash flow posed administrative problems . 
As a result , Japanese investors steered clear of the mortgage securities . 
But they did n't lose touch with the U.S. issuers . 
And Japanese investors took up nearly all of two $ 200 million Real Estate Mortgage Investment Conduits , a kind of collateralized mortgage obligation , that were offered to foreigners this year . 
In addition , further packaging of mortgage-backed securities , such as Blackstone 's fund , have reduced the effects of prepayment risk and automatically reinvest monthly payments so institutions do n't have to . 
so institutions do n't have to . 
Therefore , the debate about poison pills will continue to rage in the boardrooms of corporations and the halls of academia . 
-- typically , if a hostile bidder acquires more than a specified percentage of the corporation 's stock . 
if certain events occur -- typically , if a hostile bidder acquires more than a specified percentage of the corporation 's stock . 
if certain events occur -- typically , if a hostile bidder acquires more than a specified percentage of the corporation 's stock . 
However , these discount purchase rights may generally be redeemed at a nominal cost by the corporation 's directors if they approve of a bidder . 
if they approve of a bidder . 
, who are thereby put in a better position to pursue the long-term interests of the corporation . 
, and does this strategy require implementation over an extended period ? 
, then institutional investors are likely to be favorably disposed toward a specific poison pill . 
However , the problem is that once most poison pills are adopted , they survive forever . 
. 
? 
? 
, unless a new poison pill were approved by the then-current shareholders , who would have an opportunity to evaluate the corporation 's strategy and management team at that time . 
after it received a huge litigation settlement from Texaco . 
unless continued by a vote of the shareholders . 
He later resigned from his executive positions with Enfield , saying that actions by its board `` amounted to -LCB- my -RCB- dismissal . '' 
But in another sense , the $ 846 million purchase is uncharacteristically nervy , industry analysts say . 
But some Japanese government officials and businessmen worry that the prominent purchase is just the sort of deal that should be avoided for the time being . 
In particular , they criticize the timing , coming as it does on the heels of Sony Corp. 's controversial purchase of Columbia Pictures Entertainment Inc . 
`` But they did n't have to choose this particular moment . '' 
, and Sumitomo Life Insurance Co. paid $ 300 million for Atlanta 's IBM Tower last year . 
, but those with money who want to buy for themselves pay no attention , '' says an official of the Japan-U.S . Business Council . 
But to Mitsubishi Estate , the acquisition has just the elements that should win support from both sides . 
Finally , Mitsubishi Estate has no plans to interfere with Rockefeller 's management beyond taking a place on the board . 
, and we 'll rely very much on their leadership , '' says Mitsubishi Estate President Jotaro Takagi . 
, but also suggests the clout inherent in maintaining such close ties . 
in part because it has had little need for bold overseas ventures : In the year ended March 31 , 57.4 % of its total revenue came from office building management . 
But the Rockefeller investment is its largest . 
Nonetheless , it will barely make a dent in Mitsubishi Estate 's finances , analysts say . 
, but the Marunouchi holdings alone are estimated to have a market value of as much as 10 trillion yen to 11 trillion yen . 
Moreover , as a member of the Mitsubishi group , which is headed by one of Japan 's largest banks , it is sure to win a favorable loan . 
Analysts say the company also could easily issue new convertible bonds or warrants . 
Meanwhile , at home , Mitsubishi has control of some major projects . 
when it is completed in 1993 . 
Mitsubishi is also pushing ahead with a controversial plan to redevelop Marunouchi into a business center of high-tech buildings , a project budgeted for 30 years and six trillion yen . 
, but the two entertainment giants could end up becoming partners in a number of ventures as part of a settlement of their acrimonious legal dispute over Hollywood producers Peter Guber and Jon Peters . 
, and both Warner and Sony have accused each other of trying to sabotage each other 's prospects for success in the entertainment business . 
But it may amount to little more than posturing ; the two have continued on-again , off-again settlement talks over the last few weeks , and people familiar with the talks say the matter could be resolved within a week . 
, and people familiar with the talks say the matter could be resolved within a week . 
But the people familiar with the talks said that Warner is n't expected to get any cash in the settlement . 
Instead , Sony is likely to agree to let Warner participate in certain of its businesses , such as the record club of Sony 's CBS Records unit . 
, but it does n't have a powerful world-wide record club like CBS . 
The two sides are also discussing certain business ventures involving cable rights to Columbia 's movies . 
In addition , Sony is expected to agree to swap Columbia 's 35 % stake in the sprawling Burbank , Calif. , studio that Warner and Columbia share , in exchange for the old MGM studio lot that Warner acquired with the purchase of Lorimar Telepictures Corp . 
Still , it may be tough for the two to have a smooth partnership in anything , in the wake of sworn affidavits filed over the last week . 
One , for example , came from CBS Records Chairman Walter Yetnikoff , who will head a committee that will oversee Sony 's entertainment division , including both records and movies . 
after the merger is complete , denied that in his own affidavit , and called Mr. Yetnikoff 's remarks `` vicious '' and his claims `` reckless , irresponsible and baseless , '' saying Warner under his leadership has started a number of businesses in Japan . 
Mr. Ross also said he enjoys `` warm professional and personal relationships '' with Japanese executives including Sony Chairman Akio Morita , `` who has visited my home here . '' 
But despite the acrimony between Mr. Ross and Mr. Yetnikoff , officials of the Time side of Time Warner have reportedly been increasingly interested in a settlement that might yield attractive business opportunities . 
since Sony announced its plans to hire Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters . 
But both sides appear to be more willing now to meet each other 's terms to resolve the issue . 
And although Warner has said it wanted the producers to fulfill the terms of their contract , the producers said in sworn court declarations that they did n't believe the relationship could be repaired after the acrimony of the legal battle . 
. 
Any settlement is also expected to exclude Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters from any of the projects they were working on at Warner . 
But that does n't mean Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters might not eventually get their hands on some of their projects ; studios develop hundreds of movies but produce only 10 to 20 each year . 
. 
Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters also almost certainly would n't be able to participate in future sequels to `` Batman , '' the blockbuster hit they produced for Warner . 
But in acquiring Guber-Peters Entertainment , Sony will actually get a piece of the profits from `` Batman , '' since the publicly held concern gets certain revenue from the movies Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters produce . 
, '' since the publicly held concern gets certain revenue from the movies Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters produce . 
And our action today will allow Gulf Power to avoid prolonged , distracting legal proceedings . '' 
The Appleyard Agency , for example , allegedly made contributions from 1982 to 1984 to various funds for political candidates , then submitted bills to Gulf Power . 
, then submitted bills to Gulf Power . 
The government also indicated that former Gulf Power senior vice president Jacob F. `` Jake '' Horton was the mastermind behind the use of the ad agencies -- Appleyard , Dick Leonard Group II Inc. and Hemmer & Yates Corp. -- to make payments to various political candidates from 1981 to 1988 . 
after learning he might be fired following the uncovering of irregularities in a company audit . 
Repeat customers also can purchase luxury items at reduced prices . 
But at a time of mounting concern over alcohol abuse , some liquor marketers consider Seagram 's frequent buyer promotion risky . 
. '' 
And Dewar 's gave discounts on Scottish merchandise to people who sent in bottle labels . 
But the scope of Seagram 's Chivas promotion sets it apart . 
But Goya Foods Inc. believes it can milk some sales by bucking the trend . 
And it 's adding 15 to 20 new outlets a day , says Greg Ricca , sales director at La Lecheria . 
And the merchandise was , well , fake . 
As a result , marketers of faux gems steadily lost space in department stores to more fashionable rivals -- cosmetics makers . 
But lately , retailers say , fake has become more fashionable . 
And jewelry makers are beginning to use many of the same marketing tricks honed in the aggressive world of cosmetics . 
And it 's growing fast , with annual sales gains of more than 10 % . 
, and they 're even beginning to borrow a perennial favorite of the beauty business -- offering a gift when consumers make a purchase . 
when consumers make a purchase . 
But there are limits . 
But cosmetics firms still have one big marketing edge : They motivate sales people with commissions . 
, but claims against the jetliner 's maker are being pursued , a federal judge said . 
Northwest , a unit of NWA Inc. , and McDonnell Douglas Corp. , which made the MD-80 aircraft , also are pursuing counterclaims against each other in the crash near Detroit Metropolitan Airport . 
as the jury trial was to begin yesterday . 
Also , a cockpit warning system failed to alert the pilots the flaps and slats were not set for takeoff , the NTSB said . 
But there may be less there than meets the eye . 
-- in which he plays the role of Old Testament-style temporal , political messiah -- and then to make the U.S. part of a unified international theocracy . 
Then he would move his movement to Europe . 
But that was not to be . 
But internal church documents clearly show that at its publicity-seeking heights , as when it organized a spectacular Yankee Stadium bicentennial rally in 1976 , there actually were only about 2,000 full-time Unification Church members in the U.S. 
Yet these purchases can be misleading . 
, but those revenues were a pittance compared to the costs of Mr. Moon 's lavish international conferences , speaking tours , and assorted land buys . 
Likewise , journalists John Burgess and Michael Isikoff of the Washington Post have estimated that at least $ 800 million was transferred from Japan to the U.S. to deal with the church 's annual operating losses in this country . 
, and the total amount lost in this journalistic black hole was estimated at $ 150 million by 1984 . 
as Mr. Moon now concentrates more on developing his empire in the Far East . 
So Mr. Moon is in retreat , refocusing on the Far East . 
, and that alternative sources of funds will be necessary to meet its obligations . 
, but its cash flow from investments has so far lagged behind its payments to victims . 
, but Manville has the right of first refusal on any sales of its stock held by the trust . 
, but no decision has been made . 
The filing also said the trust is considering a sale of Manville securities in the open market ; an extraordinary dividend on the common stock ; or a recapitalization of Manville . 
, and all but Kirgizia have reported rioting in the past six months . 
when he can not guarantee a return flight ? '' 
because they had condemned China 's crackdown on its pro-democracy movement . 
, and Chinese lawmakers said the two can only return if they `` abandon their antagonistic stand against the Chinese government and their attempt to nullify the Sino-British joint declaration on Hong Kong . '' 
if they `` abandon their antagonistic stand against the Chinese government and their attempt to nullify the Sino-British joint declaration on Hong Kong . '' 
However , a Canadian Embassy official in Tel Aviv said that Canada was unlikely to sell the Candu heavy-water reactor to Israel since Israel has n't signed the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty . 
since Israel has n't signed the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty . 
The two are also signing a trade agreement . 
, but it can `` offer experience . '' 
, and the bids will be allocated based on these discount offers . 
and that marital privileges , which protect spouses from incriminating each other , do n't apply in her case . 
As a result , Judge John F. Keenan of New York ordered Mrs. Marcos to turn over to the court all pleadings and documents she may have filed in foreign countries in opposition to U.S. requests for evidence . 
because she was brought here involuntarily and because providing the materials would violate her marital privilege . 
and because providing the materials would violate her marital privilege . 
because she was brought here involuntarily and because providing the materials would violate her marital privilege . 
For instance , the documents could involve foreign business dealings or bank accounts . 
The judge also said the two marital testimonial privileges cited by Mrs. Marcos do n't apply . 
But Judge Keenan said that privilege 's purpose is `` fostering harmony in marriage . '' 
, the judge said . 
But Judge Keenan said that privilege is meant to protect private utterances -- not litigation papers filed with foreign governments , as Mrs. Marcos 's attorneys maintained . 
. 
As a result , he said he will examine the Marcos documents sought by the prosecutors to determine whether turning over the filings is self-incrimination . 
Judge Keenan also directed the prosecutors to show that Mrs. Marcos 's Fifth Amendment right against self-incrimination wo n't be violated . 
and their practice with Japanese clients will be limited to advising them on matters of foreign law . 
The office may also be able to advise foreign and multinational clients on international law and general matters . 
The Sidley-Ashurst venture will also be staffed by another Sidley partner specializing in corporate law , a partner from Ashurst concentrating on acquisitions and a Japanese attorney . 
The UAW also charged that the state applied its own standards for determining pay in a discriminatory manner . 
until everybody with more seniority had spoken first , so younger employees -- often the most enthusiastic and innovative -- seldom spoke up at all . 
, so younger employees -- often the most enthusiastic and innovative -- seldom spoke up at all . 
But in 1986 , the badges and the `` do n't speak out of turn '' rule were abolished -- early steps in a cultural revolution still rolling on with all the subtlety of a freight train . 
, and now many designers drive foreign cars to get useful ideas . 
And in a Japanese corporate first , Nissan recently opened the first coed company dormitory for single employees at the suburban Tokyo technical center . 
`` But in the end , top management decided to follow the voice of the younger generation . '' 
`` But in the end , top management decided to follow the voice of the younger generation . '' 
But its surprising progress so far holds important lessons for companies in trouble . 
unless top management first admits that things have gone badly awry and then publicly leads the charge . 
and then publicly leads the charge . 
. '' 
Meanwhile , President Kume ordered everyone from top executives to rookie designers to go `` town watching , '' to visit chic parts of Tokyo to try to gain insights into developing cars for trend-setters . 
But when they arrived at the door , all were afraid to go in , fearing that they would be out of place . 
, fearing that they would be out of place . 
Later , Nissan borrowed other Honda practices , including an engineering `` idea contest '' to promote inventiveness . 
, but they seem to be genuine -- so much so , in fact , that some older employees have resisted . 
-- so much so , in fact , that some older employees have resisted . 
but instead `` were neglected , '' says Kouji Hori , the personnel manager at the Nissan Technical Center . 
Since then , Nissan also has launched new versions of the $ 13,249 240SX sporty coupe and 300ZX sports car . 
, but sales have passed 50,000 , and there 's a one-year waiting list for the car . 
, and there 's a one-year waiting list for the car . 
Then , there 's the S-Cargo , an offbeat delivery van with a snail-like body that inspired its name . 
, and a gift shop sells such items as alarm clocks styled like the Pao 's oversized speedometer . 
before beginning a depressing eight-year slide that continued through last year . 
, but even the 25 % market share that Nissan expects in 1989 will leave it far below its position at the beginning of the decade . 
, and even that timetable might prove optimistic . 
, he adds , just as arch-rival Toyota unleashes its own batch of new cars . 
Likewise , in the U.S. , Nissan has grabbed 5.2 % of the car market so far this year , up from 4.5 % a year ago . But even that brings Nissan only to the share it had in 1987 , and leaves the company behind its high of 5.5 % in 1980 and 1982 . 
But even that brings Nissan only to the share it had in 1987 , and leaves the company behind its high of 5.5 % in 1980 and 1982 . 
But this year , Honda has revamped the Accord and made it a midsized car . Nissan instead has kept its new Stanza a bit smaller than that and cut the base price 6 % ; at $ 11,450 , Stanza prices start $ 749 below the predecessor model yet have a more-powerful engine . 
Nissan instead has kept its new Stanza a bit smaller than that and cut the base price 6 % ; at $ 11,450 , Stanza prices start $ 749 below the predecessor model yet have a more-powerful engine . 
yet have a more-powerful engine . 
But `` on a new car , a rebate does n't work well '' because it cheapens the vehicle 's image , contends Thomas D. Mignanelli , executive vice president of Nissan 's U.S. sales arm . 
'' because it cheapens the vehicle 's image , contends Thomas D. Mignanelli , executive vice president of Nissan 's U.S. sales arm . 
, where its Sentra does n't measure up to the Honda Civic and Toyota Corolla . 
fully eight months before the cars hit American showrooms . 
because they are so unlike any other U.S. auto advertising . 
On the other hand , Nissan 's sales goals for Infiniti are modest compared with Toyota 's targets for Lexus . 
, '' confesses Takashi Oka , who led the Infiniti development team . 
But on reflection , Mr. Oka says , he concluded that Nissan is being prudent in following its slow-startup strategy instead of simply copying Lexus . 
, and we 're in no hurry to generate large profits right away , '' Mr. Oka says . 
, even though profits are n't exactly robust . 
But Nissan expects to earn only 120 billion yen in the current fiscal year , a modest increase of 4.7 % . 
. 
For example , Nissan 's U.S. operations include 10 separate subsidiaries -- for manufacturing , sales , design , research , etc. -- that report separately back to Japan . 
And in July , Nissan 's Tennessee manufacturing plant beat back a United Auto Workers organizing effort with aggressive tactics that have left some workers bitter . 
Perhaps the biggest challenge , however , will be to prevent a return to its former corporate rigidity as its recovery continues . 
as its recovery continues . 
, and there are many more things to do , '' President Kume says . 
He adds , however , that `` the momentum we have generated is unstoppable . 
, but any records it produces will be distributed by Warner . 
, because `` their standing in the entertainment industry is second to none . 
so that there wo n't be any expectation of detailed negotiations or agreements . 
Rather , senior administration officials said that the unexpected meeting was scheduled at Mr. Bush 's request because of his preference for conducting diplomacy through highly personal and informal meetings with other leaders . 
Instead , he said that the purpose is simply for the two to get `` better acquainted '' and discuss a wide range of issues without a formal agenda . 
, though it will hardly eliminate it . 
But he added : `` The mere fact of a meeting does n't deal with the substance of policy . '' 
. '' 
. '' 
. 
and the number could grow to 16 million by the year 2005 . 
But one Bush administration official knowledgeable about the summit plan cautioned against assuming that there will be bold new initiatives on the Soviet economy or other issues . 
Instead , this official said , `` This is vintage George Bush . 
. 
because Mr. Reagan was pulled into discussing the possible elimination of nuclear weapons without consulting American allies . 
But word of the possible session was closely held by the president and a handful of top aides , and word of it did n't reach many second-level officials until the past few days . 
, and word of it did n't reach many second-level officials until the past few days . 
Indeed , many senior officials had been insisting for weeks that Mr. Bush was n't interested in such an informal get-together . 
. 
. 
BNL previously reported that its Georgia branch had taken on loan commitments topping $ 3 billion without the Rome-based management 's approval . 
BNL also said that its board had approved `` after an in-depth discussion , '' a letter to the Bank of Italy outlining measures the state-owned bank has taken or plans to take to improve controls on its foreign branches . 
Bank of Italy has also ordered BNL to shore up its capital base to account for potential foreign loan losses , and the Rome bank has outlined a 3 trillion lire capital-raising operation . 
, and the Rome bank has outlined a 3 trillion lire capital-raising operation . 
, but Mohandas Gandhi certainly provided a recognizable beginning to non-violent civil disobedience as we know it today . 
'' and later a renewed campaign of civil disobedience `` resulted in rioting and a second imprisonment . '' 
, but some of his law breaking was justified because India was then under occupation by a foreign power , and Indians were not able to participate fully in decisions that vitally affected them . 
because India was then under occupation by a foreign power , and Indians were not able to participate fully in decisions that vitally affected them . 
, and Indians were not able to participate fully in decisions that vitally affected them . 
It is difficult , however , to justify civil disobedience , non-violent or not , where citizens have full recourse to the ballot box to effect change . 
because some individual or group disagrees with it . 
But most cases of non-violent civil disobedience are not nearly so benign . 
, but there is a fundamental difference between them . 
; but , before we get on with that , let me make just a few tangential remarks about lawful demonstrations . 
. 
, but they have little value in educating anyone about the issues in dispute . 
when they leave the site of the grievance and become mobile . 
, but the prices can be huge . 
until the authorities carry them away . 
, but its impact on that individual was violent and terminal . 
, but the result of their trespasses has been to seriously impair the rights of others unconnected with their dispute . 
, so the second situation hypothesized above would be simply a case of `` chickens coming home to roost . '' 
Or maybe the TV network would lose nothing . 
, yet does irreparable damage to the nation as a whole . 
, thereby giving great help and comfort to the enemy propagandists . 
, thus giving dignity to their allegations of the war 's `` immorality . '' 
if future generations called upon to defend the U.S. yield to the temptation to avoid the danger of combat by simply declaring the war immoral and hiding until it is over ? 
until it is over ? 
Finally , I think it important to point out the extraordinarily high visibility of non-violent civil disobedience in these days of intensive media coverage . 
, and no second invitation will be required . 
. 
. 
until he resigned in 1973 . 
In the 1989 period also , interest expense and tax rates were lower than a year ago . 
But they also are to see that taxpayers get all allowable tax benefits and to ask if filers who sought IRS aid were satisfied with it . 
But they also are to see that taxpayers get all allowable tax benefits and to ask if filers who sought IRS aid were satisfied with it . 
, but the IRS will excuse from the fullscale rigors anyone who was audited without change for either 1986 or 1987 . 
But they were stripped from the Senate bill after staffers estimated penalty revenue would fall by $ 216 million over five years . 
after staffers estimated penalty revenue would fall by $ 216 million over five years . 
Still , congressional aides say penalty reform is a strong candidate for enactment , even if not this time around , although some provisions may be modified . 
, even if not this time around , although some provisions may be modified . 
, even if not this time around , although some provisions may be modified . 
And taxpayer groups are urging legislation in many other states . 
The group also seeks uniformity among states in provisions for taxpayers ' rights . 
Also unaltered : 12 cents for charitable activities and nine cents for medical and moving costs . 
, but he could n't milk it , the Tax Court says . 
But it 's rare to see both functions in one case . 
-- and the IRS denied them all . 
when his best brood mare died . 
Yet he took little businesslike care with his cattle : He had no prior experience and did n't seek business counsel about them . 
. 
when Eastern changed its business plan . 
as long as no other labor group got a raise . 
. 
, but a federal district court , an appeals court and now the arbitrator have all sided with the pilots . 
, but he 's famous -- make that infamous -- in advertising circles : A marketing consultant , he pioneered slashing ad agency commissions , to the delight of advertising clients and the dismay of agencies . 
. 
, although one senior Young & Rubicam executive , echoing others , said : `` I think ad agencies owe Carl -LCB- Spielvogel -RCB- a vote of thanks for getting him out of the consulting business . '' 
But industry executives also believe hiring Mr. Achenbaum is a shrewd move for Backer Spielvogel , a unit of Saatchi & Saatchi . 
But industry executives also believe hiring Mr. Achenbaum is a shrewd move for Backer Spielvogel , a unit of Saatchi & Saatchi . 
; aside from agency compensation issues , he helped Nissan , for example , come up with its positioning and pricing for its new Infiniti line . 
His client contacts , meanwhile , could prove a gold mine for an agency that has had few new business wins of late . 
, so I have a pretty good notion of what clients are interested in when they look for an agency , '' Mr. Achenbaum said . 
when they look for an agency , '' Mr. Achenbaum said . 
And with Al 's record of being a delver and a detail guy , you can see how the two fit , '' said Alan Gottesman , an analyst with PaineWebber . 
? ' '' Mr. Spielvogel said . 
. 
. 
But Mr. Achenbaum pioneered negotiated fees , which often worked out to less than 15 % . 
if it drops the account . 
He ultimately became so well-known for cutting compensation , however , that clients did n't seek him out for anything else . 
He ultimately became so well-known for cutting compensation , however , that clients did n't seek him out for anything else . 
, and he has a long relationship with Hyundai , which is having severe troubles , including declining sales . 
And much better at that than at -LCB- the price-cutting -RCB- he 's been doing recently . '' 
if WPP 's bid were successful , but he did n't . 
, but he did n't . 
, and an announcer at the end of the ads would tell customers where to `` find the true performance label . '' 
and which created ads for the black market . 
-- though not necessarily to end his influence . 
and whose face has a perpetual pallor , nonetheless continues to display an energy , a precision of thought and a willingness to say publicly what most other Asian leaders dare say only privately . 
, nonetheless continues to display an energy , a precision of thought and a willingness to say publicly what most other Asian leaders dare say only privately . 
and now that team is part in exile , part being rusticated and part missing . '' 
because China could have been a good engine for growth , not just for Hong Kong and Taiwan but for Japan , Korea and the rest of Asia . '' 
and yet retain political control , Mr. Lee said , `` I would think that the Soviets face a deeper dilemma because they have been more in blinkers than the Chinese -- I mean keeping their people cut off from the outside world . '' 
because they have been more in blinkers than the Chinese -- I mean keeping their people cut off from the outside world . '' 
`` But I think the Soviet peoples are more introverted than the Chinese . '' 
Regardless , he said , he still believes the Soviet Union , while falling far short of the efficiency of a Western economy , may well manage to improve considerably . 
. 
-- then in 15 years , the economies of these countries would be totally restructured to be able to almost sustain growth by themselves . '' 
, and Japan can grow and not cut back , and so too , Korea , Taiwan , Hong Kong , Singapore , ASEAN , Australia and New Zealand -- then in 15 years , the economies of these countries would be totally restructured to be able to almost sustain growth by themselves . '' 
`` And if the Europeans come in , they benefit too . 
. 
, and we are prepared to do it . '' 
and yet they need . 
yet they need . 
when the Japanese came down -LCB- during World War II -RCB- ... . 
because I show British serials on my television network or read their books . 
`` But the Filipinos and the Americans , when I talk to them , there 's so much passion about Filipino manhood being diminished as a result of being squatted upon by the Americans and so on . 
. 
but we let it pass ... . 
when they try to pretend they 're still the master race . '' 
But they have just taken it for granted . '' 
And when they lose , then we can expect China to stop aid . 
. 
, then we can expect China to stop aid . 
and then discard them . '' 
as neurosurgeon Walter Levy and colleagues carefully cut away a woman 's spinal tumor at the Cleveland Clinic in 1978 . 
Then , says Dr. Levy , `` she woke up paralyzed . '' 
. 
. 
' or ` raise your arm . ' 
. 
But for brain tests , the unwieldy machines `` would have required patients to stand on their heads , '' says Reginald Bickford , a researcher at the University of California at San Diego . 
after scientists at Britain 's Sheffield University developed a handy , compact magnet for brain stimulation . 
, and an estimated 500 have been sold . 
, but we 're getting close , '' says Dr. Levy , who is now with the University of Pittsburgh . 
For example , paralyzed car-crash victims occasionally have some intact spinal tissues that , if preserved by emergency surgery , enable partial recovery . 
. 
But such operations typically are n't performed because there is no sign right after an injury that surgery would be beneficial . 
because there is no sign right after an injury that surgery would be beneficial . 
if we could retrieve limb function '' in such people , Dr. Tator says . 
But no significant problems have been reported among hundreds of people tested with the devices . 
, '' says Sam Bridgers , a neurologist who has studied the brain stimulators at Yale University . 
And some doctors who have conducted hours of tests on themselves report temporary headaches . 
Similarly , a Purdue University team led by heart researcher W.A. Tacker hopes to develop ways to magnetically induce cardiac muscle contractions . 
The devices ' most remarkable possibilities , though , involve the brain . 
Scientists also are exploring memory and perception with the new machines . 
. 
as U.S. companies seek to spread the risks and costs of commercializing new superconductors and to meet the challenges posed by foreign consortia , especially in Japan . 
The Wilmington , Del. , chemicals concern previously signed research superconductor agreements with Oak Ridge National Laboratory and with Argonne National Laboratory . 
, with principal payments beginning thereafter . 
, which will then transfer them to a master trust . 
Still , 20 Japanese companies , including giants such as Sanyo Industries Corp. , Matsushita Electronics Components Corp. and Sony Corp. have set up shop in the state of Northern Baja California . 
when he takes office Nov. 1 , as the first opposition governor in Mexico 's modern history . 
But the two countries remain separated by a cultural barrier wider than the ocean . 
But Mexico urgently needs more help . 
But maintaining the key components of his strategy -- a stable exchange rate and high level of imports -- will consume enormous amounts of foreign exchange . 
, '' he says . 
, and that by slightly opening the gate , that money will enter Mexico . 
It is hoped that other Japanese would then follow the leader . 
But Japanese investors say that their reluctance to invest stems not only from concerns about Mexico 's economic outlook , but also reservations about Mexico 's recently revamped investment law . 
It also made artful use of semantics , redefining as non-strategic industries some that had been in the national domain . 
, but instead is trying have his grandson become a naturalized Mexican so his family gains direct control . 
so his family gains direct control . 
if we want them to invest elsewhere , '' says Mr. Ruffo , the governor-elect of the National Action Party and himself a succesful businessman . 
But Mr. Ruffo frets that an even bigger problem could be protectionism from the U.S. , where some politicians oppose what they consider Japanese efforts to use maquiladoras to crack the U.S. market through the back door . 
, while the others forecast a modest rebound after the New Year . 
, while the dollar bears see the U.S. currency trading around 1.7600 marks and 138 yen . 
as the Federal Reserve eases interest rates . 
Mr. White also predicted a half-point cut in the U.S. discount rate in the near future . 
Indeed , in early October the West German central bank raised its discount and Lombard rates by a full percentage point . 
And a week later , Japan raised its official discount rate by a half point to 3.75 % . 
But predictions that central banks of the Group of Seven -LRB- G-7 -RRB- major industrial nations would continue their massive dollar sales went astray , as the market drove the dollar downward on its own , reacting to Wall Street 's plunge and subsequent price volatility , lower U.S. interest rates and signs of a slowing U.S. economy . 
, as the market drove the dollar downward on its own , reacting to Wall Street 's plunge and subsequent price volatility , lower U.S. interest rates and signs of a slowing U.S. economy . 
, thus damping dollar demand . 
But , Mr. Kakita added , once U.S. equities regain some stability , players will move back into dollar-denominated investments , especially Treasury bonds , whose value rises when interest rates decline . 
, whose value rises when interest rates decline . 
when interest rates decline . 
, '' he predicted , explaining that Japanese institutions are comfortable with the dollar anywhere between current levels and 135 yen . 
as U.S. economic data , particularly U.S. trade figures , level off . 
`` But I 'm not one of these great dollar bears you see more of these days , '' Mr. Zapfel said . 
But , he warned , the currency will remain at risk . 
He said the government will also repeal the 1 % transaction tax on the first-time purchase of stakes in companies . 
because it tends to drive securities trading and other banking activities out of Frankfurt into rival financial centers , especially London , where trading transactions is n't taxed . 
, but the government has been reluctant to abolish the levy for budgetary concerns . 
after the tax disappears . 
even if the current center-right coalition loses the elections in December 1990 . 
, and only if accompanied by a lower wage for the first six months of a job . 
. 
, but one individual close to the situation said the resignation was forced . 
Separately , Chemical confirmed that it took an undisclosed charge in the second quarter for losses on forward-rate agreements involving foreign currency written by its branch in Frankfurt , West Germany . 
'' and that no personnel changes were made as a result . 
'' and that no personnel changes were made as a result . 
. 
because each must be valued separately in light of current market conditions . 
. 
Then there were two gold watches once owned by Allan Pinkerton , who founded the company in Chicago in 1850 . 
But there were supposed to be three , Mr. Wathen 's company claims . 
. 
, it can also bring a host of unforeseen problems . 
Yet although California Plant Protection was netting bigger and bigger clients -- the firm provided security for the 1984 Summer Olympics in Los Angeles -- it still did n't have the name recognition of Pinkerton 's . 
. 
So when American Brands Inc. decided to sell the unit in 1987 as part of a divestiture of its food and security industries operations , Mr. Wathen saw a chance to accomplish several objectives . 
. 
while slashing overhead costs because the two already operated in many of the same cities . 
because the two already operated in many of the same cities . 
and he could get the name recognition he 'd wanted . 
Mr. Wathen also relished the chance to demonstrate an entrepreneur like himself , who 'd spent his whole career in the security business , could run Pinkerton 's better than an unfocused conglomerate or investment banker . 
But there were hitches , not the least of which was that , Mr. Wathen says , he proceeded almost blindly in doing the $ 95 million acquisition , which was completed in January 1988 . 
, '' he says . 
And regional offices were `` egregiously overstaffed , '' he claims . 
, `` and half of the employees had company automobiles . '' 
, says Lloyd Greif of Sutro & Co. in Los Angeles , which arranged the Pinkerton 's acquisition . 
Next , Mr. Wathen raised Pinkerton 's rates , which were 75-cents-an-hour lower than California Plant Protection 's average rate of around $ 8.63 . 
And he got rid of low-margin businesses that just were n't making money for the company . 
But Mr. Wathen 's team still must pay down about $ 82 million of long-term bank debt from the acquisition within the next four years . 
and Pinkerton 's was forced to borrow $ 20 million of subordinated debt . 
if a lot of the problems had n't been there , '' Mr. Wathen says . 
and still turn a modest profit . 
and we concluded that we did not have liability under the contract , '' says American Brands . 
. '' 
And then there 's the case of the missing gold watch . 
And then there 's the case of the missing gold watch . 
The company is also renewing its emphasis on investigations , particularly undercover investigations for corporations . 
. 
and it carries historical and sentimental value . 
as raw milk prices continued their rise , the Agriculture Department said . 
, while turkey prices rose 1.2 cents a pound to 38.5 cents . 
, while beef cattle slipped 80 cents to $ 67.40 for each hundred pounds and calves dropped 90 cents to $ 90.20 . 
and calves dropped 90 cents to $ 90.20 . 
, and sorghum grain averaged $ 3.61 for each hundred pounds , down 19 cents , according to the department . 
after the Bermuda Supreme Court lifts or modifies an interim injunction restraining the company from buying its shares . 
But it does that at the cost of deepening the taxpayer 's exposure if the FHA is forced to pay for more loans going sour . 
if the FHA is forced to pay for more loans going sour . 
But the higher mortgage ceiling is only the starter kit for what Senator Alan Cranston and Majority Leader George Mitchell have in mind for housing . 
. 
. 
But even if he agrees , Mr. Kemp does n't write the nation 's housing law -- Congress does . 
-- Congress does . 
And the majority of Members cynically view the current discrediting of HUD as mainly a chance to shove through their own slate of projects . 
-- and a part that 's gone . 
. '' 
But the FHA program is hemorrhaging bad loans . 
, and they are surely headed for the Capitol Hill sausage-grinder . 
, and the moves will not have a material effect on the company , Gillette said . 
while striving to improve supplies to frustrated consumers . 
, but that the most difficult work was still ahead . 
. 
When I must think with precision , Detached from all other thoughts While trying to reach a decision . 
While trying to reach a decision . 
But often nothing 's resolved , To my frustration and fury : With pros and cons in limbo , I feel like a hung jury . 
But there are signs that labor-management cooperation could change the politics of health-care legislation and the economics of medicine . 
. 
By contrast , Japan 's equal 6.7 % of GNP , a nation 's total output of goods and services . 
because many companies are using higher employee insurance premiums , deductibles and co-payments to deflect surging medical costs to workers . 
, '' but this is a false hope , Mr. Schramm says . 
But 1991 could be a window for action . 
, if Congress takes steps that patients fear will limit the availability of care . 
and then to draft medical-practice guidelines . 
while limiting unnecessary tests and medical procedures . 
and -LCB- it -RCB- cuts against the grain of existing consumer and even provider conceptions of what is ` necessary . ' '' 
The AFL-CIO also embraces treatment guidelines . 
In addition , it 's toying with an approach that would impose health-expenditure ceilings or budgets on the government as a whole and on individual states as a way to slow health-care spending . 
, and that it hopes to complete the transaction early next year . 
, but financial buyers such as leveraged buy-out firms will be at a disadvantage in obtaining financing . 
and the financial buyer is going to be the exception , '' said one trader . 
But such a combination also presents great risks . 
But such a combination also presents great risks . 
if the industry declines more than the company expects . 
Moreover , any unexpected strengthening of the dollar would hurt Georgia-Pacific because two of Nekoosa 's major product lines -- containerboard , which is used to make shipping boxes , and market pulp -- are exported in large quantities . 
because two of Nekoosa 's major product lines -- containerboard , which is used to make shipping boxes , and market pulp -- are exported in large quantities . 
It also could be a drag on Georgia-Pacific earnings because the roughly $ 1.5 billion in goodwill -- the amount by which the bid exceeds Nekoosa 's book value of $ 1.5 billion -- will have to be subtracted from earnings over a period of decades . 
because the roughly $ 1.5 billion in goodwill -- the amount by which the bid exceeds Nekoosa 's book value of $ 1.5 billion -- will have to be subtracted from earnings over a period of decades . 
Moreover , production runs would be longer , cutting inefficiencies from adjusting machinery between production cycles . 
And Georgia-Pacific could save money in selling pulp , because the company uses its own sales organization while Nekoosa employs higher-cost agents . 
, because the company uses its own sales organization while Nekoosa employs higher-cost agents . 
while Nekoosa employs higher-cost agents . 
But he said that even under those conditions , the company still would realize a savings of tens of millions of dollars in the first year following a merger . 
U.S. clearance also is needed for the proposed acquisition . 
Nekoosa also is being advised by Goldman , Sachs & Co . 
if the takeover succeeds , and the law firm of Shearman & Sterling . 
, but Georgia-Pacific is n't likely to pursue such a course immediately because that would take 90 to 120 days , and would n't affect the provisions of the Maine law . 
because that would take 90 to 120 days , and would n't affect the provisions of the Maine law . 
, and MacMillan Bloedel said it has n't any plans to make a bid for Nekoosa . 
because the industry 's continuing capacity-expansion program is eating up available cash . 
Moreover , some analysts said they expect a foreign paper company with deeper pockets than Georgia-Pacific to end up acquiring Nekoosa , signaling to the rest of the industry that hostile bids are unproductive . 
But many analysts believe that , given the attractiveness of paper companies ' cash flows , as well as the frantic consolidation of the paper industry in Europe , there will be at least a few more big hostile bids for U.S. companies within the next several months . 
. ' '' 
Moreover , `` it 's a lot cheaper and quicker to buy a plant than to build one . '' 
Indeed , a number of analysts said that Japanese paper companies are hungry to acquire additional manufacturing capacity anywhere in the world . 
Meanwhile , Shearson Lehman 's Mr. Devario said that , to stay competitive , the U.S. paper industry needs to catch up with the European industry . 
, he said . 
, as health insurance costs continued to soar , the Labor Department said . 
as the labor market tightened . 
and it 's not a severe one at all , '' she added . 
, while health insurance costs spurted by 13.7 % . 
For instance , wages of private-sector hospital workers leaped 6.6 % in the 12 months ended in September , compared with 4.4 % for workers in all industries . 
It also found them rising much more in the Northeast than elsewhere . 
because the Farmington , N.M. , carrier did n't respond to its offer by the close of business yesterday , a deadline StatesWest had set for a response . 
However , StatesWest is n't abandoning its pursuit of the much-larger Mesa . 
Earlier , Mesa had rejected a general proposal from StatesWest to combine the two carriers in some way . 
Bond prices also edged higher . 
, although Georgia-Pacific fell $ 2.50 a share , to $ 50.875 . 
. 
. 
But the next important piece of news on the economy 's health -- this morning 's release of the national purchasing manager 's survey for October -- could prompt investors into action . 
. 
while bolstering stock prices and the dollar . 
Meanwhile , bond investors are laboring under the onus of a national debt ceiling debate . 
. 
unless Congress and the president act soon to lift the nation 's debt ceiling . 
But Bouygues said its first-half profit is n't indicative of the full-year trend because of the highly seasonal nature of many of the company 's activities . 
But even before it begins , the campaign is drawing fire from anti-smoking advocates , who criticize Philip Morris 's attempt to bolster its beleaguered image by wrapping itself in the document that is a cornerstone of American democracy . 
, who criticize Philip Morris 's attempt to bolster its beleaguered image by wrapping itself in the document that is a cornerstone of American democracy . 
, although its array of brands -- including Maxwell House coffee , Jell-O , Cheez Whiz , and Miller beer -- blanket supermarket shelves . 
. '' 
, '' the spokesman says . 
, nor will it ever , '' the spokesman says . 
But some anti-smoking activists disagree , expressing anger at what they see as the company 's attempt to purchase innocence by association . 
because this company is portraying itself at the heart of American culture and political freedom and in fact it 's a killer , '' says Michael Pertschuk , former chairman of the Federal Trade Commission and a tobacco-industry critic . 
and in fact it 's a killer , '' says Michael Pertschuk , former chairman of the Federal Trade Commission and a tobacco-industry critic . 
and in fact it 's a killer , '' says Michael Pertschuk , former chairman of the Federal Trade Commission and a tobacco-industry critic . 
, but they agree that the ads ' implied smoking message is unmistakable . 
. '' 
-LRB- Indeed , RJR Nabisco is currently under fire for having sent 80-second videotapes touting its Now brand to consumers who smoke American Brands ' Carltons . -RRB- 
But the move lagged a stronger rise in New York Stock Exchange issues . 
, and the Dow Jones Industrial Average jumped 1.6 % . 
and Oracle Systems rose 1 1\/2 to 23 1\/4 . 
But traders who watch the stocks warned the rise may be yet another `` one-day phenomenon . '' 
, and traders say it 's natural that they rebound sharply now that the market has turned around . 
now that the market has turned around . 
But , they caution , conservative investors would do well to sell into the strength . 
when people are taking profits , because people are most scared of the high-technology stocks , '' said Robin West , director of research for Ladenburg Thalmann 's Lanyi division , which specializes in emerging growth stocks . 
, because people are most scared of the high-technology stocks , '' said Robin West , director of research for Ladenburg Thalmann 's Lanyi division , which specializes in emerging growth stocks . 
, while weakness in the sector often sank unlisted share prices broadly . 
But increasing volatility in the sector has exhausted investors who try to follow its dips and swings . 
as the industry matures and slows . 
, while the Nasdaq Composite Index has gained 18.35 % . 
. 
. 
, while Intel is up more than 40 % . 
The technology group is also split between large companies and small , with the biggest stocks trading as blue-chip issues in the institutional marketplace , while the smaller stocks churn on their individual merits or faults , analysts say . 
, while the smaller stocks churn on their individual merits or faults , analysts say . 
But the firm also tracks smaller technology companies as a subset of the larger group . 
But the firm also tracks smaller technology companies as a subset of the larger group . 
because they are n't traded as much as many other issues . 
But , he added , interest-rate-sensitive stocks in general are stalled . 
On the other hand , Mr. Jennison noted that the recent slide in bank and thrift stocks was at least halted yesterday . 
, as its American depository receipts climbed 1 3\/4 to 13 5\/8 with more than 6.6 million ADRs traded . 
if shareholders vote to allow a suitor to acquire more than 15 % of the company . 
after the company agreed to be acquired by Japan 's Chugai Pharmaceutical for about $ 110 million -- almost double the market price of Gen-Probe 's stock . 
after filing for protection from its creditors under Chapter 11 of the federal Bankruptcy Code . 
after it said it agreed to buy Ansco & Associates and two affiliates for cash and stock . 
, which separately sent to President Bush a nearly $ 67 billion fiscal 1990 bill including the first construction funds for the space station . 
But yesterday 's action put to rest any lingering resistance from tobacco interests . 
But the bill still faces budget questions because it also is the vehicle for an estimated $ 3.1 billion in supplemental appropriations for law enforcement and anti-drug programs . 
because it also is the vehicle for an estimated $ 3.1 billion in supplemental appropriations for law enforcement and anti-drug programs . 
, and the House Appropriations Committee leadership must now seek a waiver in hopes of completing action today . 
and , apart from the space station , the measure incorporates far-reaching provisions affecting the federal mortgage market . 
And in anticipation of increased lending , the cap on FHA loan guarantees would rise to approximately $ 73.8 billion . 
Separately , the bill gives authority to the Department of Housing and Urban Development to facilitate the refinancing of high-interest loans subsidized by the government under the so-called Section 235 home-ownership program for lower-income families . 
But the promise of at least $ 15 million in new savings helped to forge a partnership between HUD Secretary Jack Kemp and lawmakers wanting to protect their projects elsewhere . 
, and total appropriations for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration would grow 16 % to nearly $ 12.4 billion . 
And while imposing a statutory cap of $ 1.6 billion on future spending , the bill would give NASA $ 30 million for the start-up of the CRAF-Cassini mission , a successor to the Voyager space probe . 
. 
Separately , the National Science Foundation is promised a 7.7 % increase to bring its appropriations to $ 2.07 billion . 
And while pursuing these initiatives , Congress and the White House are squeezed too by steady increases -- $ 551 million -- in veteran 's medical care . 
. 
, and the commitments now will drive excess spending into fiscal 1991 . 
, yet admit that much of the disorder now stems from the fiscal legerdemain associated with their own summit agreement with the White House this past spring . 
, '' said Rep. Bill Frenzel -LRB- R. , Minn. -RRB- , `` because the whole agreement was built on gimmickry . '' 
But at a time when the White House wants to kill the entire program , Republicans have been among its leading champions . 
N.M. , and more than $ 2.1 million would go for service to eight communities in the western Nebraska district of GOP Rep. Virginia Smith on the House Appropriations Committee . 
For example , a passenger can fly from Chardon , Neb. , to Denver for as little as $ 89 to $ 109 , according to prices quoted by the company . But given the few number of users , the cost to the federal government per passenger is estimated at $ 193 , according to House and Senate appropriations committees . 
But given the few number of users , the cost to the federal government per passenger is estimated at $ 193 , according to House and Senate appropriations committees . 
as the Senate remained mired in difficulties over a $ 17.25 billion measure covering the budgets for the State , Commerce , and Justice departments in fiscal 1990 . 
The same jealousy can breed confusion , however , in the absence of any authorization bill this year . 
But on a 53-45 roll call this provision was stripped from the bill last night after Foreign Relations Chairman Claiborne Pell -LRB- D. , R.I . -RRB- complained that it was an intrusion on exclusive powers vested in his panel for more than three decades . 
after Foreign Relations Chairman Claiborne Pell -LRB- D. , R.I . -RRB- complained that it was an intrusion on exclusive powers vested in his panel for more than three decades . 
. 
, he and others argued , and the Chicago-based conglomerate should be worth 30 a share . 
And why should holders expect to realize that presumed `` worth ? '' 
But value , it turns out , is only what a buyer will pay . 
And with the company 's recent announcement that it is contemplating a partial sale of its real estate , the values suddenly look poorer . 
. 
. 
Santa Fe also has $ 3.7 billion in debt . 
In addition , its railroad lost a $ 750 million antitrust suit , which is on appeal , and which analysts say could be settled for one-third that amount . 
, and which analysts say could be settled for one-third that amount . 
But Santa Fe , currently trading at 18 7\/8 , is n't likely to realize private market values by selling assets , because the tax against it would be onerous . 
, because the tax against it would be onerous . 
Its plan , instead , is to spin off the remainder of its real estate unit and to possibly do the same with its mining and energy assets . 
. '' 
But it is n't clear why that should be so . 
And real estate usually has n't traded well under public ownership . 
... after the realty unit is spun off ... . 
And what about the cost , and risk , of waiting to realize the hypothetical private market values ? '' 
and , in the meantime , is sticking to his `` buy '' recommendation on the belief that he will find `` values '' of 30 a share . 
, then I wo n't recommend it . '' 
But it appears to be the sort of hold one makes while heading for the door . 
while heading for the door . 
In other words : The real estate has a higher value than the pending deal suggests . 
. 
And , as Mr. Zell says , with Itel and O&Y on the unit 's board , the real estate will be run by `` a very unusual group '' to say the least . 
It is possible then that Santa Fe 's real estate -- even in a state imperiled by earthquakes -- could , one day , fetch a king 's ransom . 
But as Drexel analyst Linda Dunn notes , its properties will be developed over 15 to 20 years . 
So despite Wall Street 's rosy talk of quickly `` maximizing values , '' holders could be in for a long wait . 
But Asher B. Edelman , who controls about 16 % of the San Antonio , Texas , computer-servicing company , insisted that the announcement did n't have anything to do with the ongoing battle for control of Datapoint Corp . 
, shortly after Mr. Edelman took control of Datapoint . 
, and Marks & Spencer responded in trading on London 's Stock Exchange with an eight pence rise to 188 pence . 
, while operating profit climbed 13 % to # 225.7 million from # 199.8 million . 
Operating profit dropped 35 % , however , to # 3.8 million . 
, and a California regulator described an attempted `` whitewash '' by deputies of chief federal regulator Danny Wall . 
A California official also said he sent the Federal Bureau of Investigation a packet of documents relating to a previously reported $ 400,000 contribution from Lincoln 's parent solicited by Sen. Alan Cranston -LRB- D. , Calif . -RRB- . 
in the 3 1\/2 years before federal authorities seized it earlier this year . 
, '' although he did n't allege any specific violation . 
Richard Newsom , a California state official who last year examined Lincoln 's parent , American Continental Corp. , said he also saw evidence that crimes had been committed . 
The state examiner also said supervisors of a parallel federal examination seemed so reluctant to demand write-downs of Lincoln 's bad loans that he immediately grew suspicious . 
`` Later on , my concerns about a whitewash became even more serious , '' he said . 
and it just jumped at you . '' 
, a day after the parent corporation entered bankruptcy-law proceedings . 
The government later brought a $ 1.1 billion fraud suit against Mr. Keating and others . 
Rep. Gonzalez has complained that regulators waited far too long , however , ignoring a recommendation from regional officials to place Lincoln into receivership two years before it failed . 
two years before it failed . 
And David Riley , a federal examiner who worked under Mr. Scott , said he found his chief oddly upbeat about Lincoln . 
. ' 
simply because it contained financial information about their creditors and depositors . '' 
, and whether other major steelmakers will follow suit . 
But LTV 's move marks the first effort by a major steelmaker to counter the free fall in spot prices . 
, while the prices of other industrial commodities increased nearly five times as much . 
But analysts say the company is also trying to prevent further price drops . 
But analysts say the company is also trying to prevent further price drops . 
Moreover , they note that LTV may be trying to send a signal to major customers , such as Chrysler Corp. and Whirlpool Corp. , that steelmakers need more money . 
and then reverse themselves . 
He is n't convinced , though , that the price decline reflects falling demand because the world economy remains relatively strong . 
because the world economy remains relatively strong . 
And while customers such as steel service centers are continuing to reduce inventories through the fourth quarter , they eventually will begin stocking up again , he notes . 
, he notes . 
In fact , LTV was the first steelmaker to publicly boost discounts for buyers of cold rolled sheet steel and hot-dipped galvanized sheet steel . 
However , the Treasury said it will postpone the auction unless it has assurances of enactment of legislation to raise the statutory debt limit before the scheduled auction date . 
unless it has assurances of enactment of legislation to raise the statutory debt limit before the scheduled auction date . 
. 
, which then reproduced toad genes . 
. 
and Genentech licensed it to Eli Lilly , which produced 80 % of the insulin used by 1.5 million U.S. diabetics . 
Nonetheless , the $ 36 million issue they floated in 1980 opened at $ 35 and leaped to $ 89 within 20 minutes . 
Boyer and Cohen , for instance , both still university researchers , had to be talked into applying for a patent on their gene-splicing technique -- and then the Patent Office refused to grant it . 
-- and then the Patent Office refused to grant it . 
-- and then the Patent Office refused to grant it . 
That judgment , in turn , was reversed by the U.S. Supreme Court , leaving Cohen and Boyer holding the first patents for making recombinant DNA -LRB- now assigned to their schools -RRB- . 
Earlier yesterday , the Societe de Bourses Francaises was told that a unit of Framatome S.A. also bought Navigation Mixte shares , this purchase covering more than 160,000 shares . 
as soon as trading opened Monday . 
It said the venture , expected to take control of the facilities Dec. 1 , would also serve another 3,300 independent Unocal gasoline stations . 
-- but the major stumbling block remains President Bush 's proposal to cut the capital-gains tax rate . 
Republicans , meanwhile , want to try to protect the measure by combining it with two politically popular issues that Democrats could find hard to block . 
. 
. 
if faced with a potential default . 
The company also retained attorney Martin P. Levin , a director of the company and former head of the Times-Mirror Publishing Group , as an adviser . 
as a multibillion-dollar takeover proposal helped restore market players ' confidence about the prospects for further deal-making . 
, as the offer for Great Northern Nekoosa by Georgia-Pacific triggered speculation that the industry could be in for a wave of merger activity . 
even though some late selling caused the market to retreat from session highs . 
that were also active in the stock-index futures markets . 
and only 448 declined , while broader market averages rose sharply . 
, while broader market averages rose sharply . 
and the New York Stock Exchange Composite Index climbed 2.65 to 
or that the bid would be raised . 
Traders and analysts alike said the market 's surge also reflected an easing of concerns about volatility because of moves by a number of brokerage firms to curtail or cease stock-index arbitrage . 
But traders also said arbitrage-related trading contributed to the market 's surge , as buy programs boosted prices shortly after the opening and sporadically through the remainder of the session . 
But traders also said arbitrage-related trading contributed to the market 's surge , as buy programs boosted prices shortly after the opening and sporadically through the remainder of the session . 
, as buy programs boosted prices shortly after the opening and sporadically through the remainder of the session . 
, but most paper and forest-products stocks firmed as market players speculated about other potential industry takeover targets . 
as market players speculated about other potential industry takeover targets . 
and Temple-Inland jumped 3 3\/4 to 62 1\/4 . 
and Upjohn firmed 3\/4 to 38 . 
Also , SmithKline Beecham rose 1 3\/8 to 39 1\/2 . 
, which separately reported earnings that were in line with expectations . 
after losing one point Monday amid rumors of a delay . 
after PaineWebber boosted its investment opinion on the stock to its highest rating . 
since the firm lowered its rating in early October , based on the belief the stock had become expensive . 
Cilcorp will also assume $ 22 million of Hunter 's existing debt . 
Separately , Cilcorp said it plans to purchase as many as 1.4 million shares , or 10 % of its common stock outstanding from time to time on the open market and through privately negotiated transactions . 
. 
, as about 20,000 demonstrators staged protests in three cities to press demands for democratic freedoms . 
that must still overcome budget obstacles in Congress . 
The chamber also sent to Bush a nearly $ 67 billion fiscal 1990 measure that includes the first construction funds for a space station . 
, and Bush said he would review U.S. policy toward Managua , including the possibility of renewing military aid to the rebels . 
The government also urged whites to refrain from panic over growing black protests , such as the massive anti-apartheid rally Sunday on the outskirts of Soweto . 
A spokesman for Democratic Sen. Pell of Rhode Island said , however , that the Immigration and Naturalization Service would review the stowaway 's request . 
Meanwhile , Ogden Corp. , which also has interests in building maintenance and management , reported third-quarter net income of $ 27.1 million , or 67 cents a share , more than twice the $ 13.5 million , or 34 cents a share , a year earlier . 
Meanwhile , Ogden Corp. , which also has interests in building maintenance and management , reported third-quarter net income of $ 27.1 million , or 67 cents a share , more than twice the $ 13.5 million , or 34 cents a share , a year earlier . 
The exchange also may step up its disclosure of firms engaged in program trading , these people said . 
But in an interview in which he called the stock market 's volatility a `` national problem , '' Big Board Chairman John J. Phelan Jr. said , `` We are going to try to do some things in the short intermediate term '' to help the situation . 
, but that banning computer-assisted trading strategies entirely , as some investors want , would be like `` taking everybody out of an automobile and making them ride a horse . '' 
, and it is expected that some public announcement could be made after that . 
, and many people have urged him to take more of a leadership role on the program trading issue . 
, which banned program trading through the Big Board 's computers whenever the Dow moved 50 points up or down in a day . 
Meanwhile , another big Wall Street brokerage firm joined others that have been pulling back from program trading . 
Also , CS First Boston Inc. 's First Boston Corp. unit , the fifth-biggest program trader in September , is `` preparing a response '' to the program-trading outcry , officials of the firm said . 
But he has been getting heat from all sides over program trading . 
. '' 
But he said this does n't mean he is satisfied with the market 's big swings . 
For example , in a special meeting Monday with Mr. Phelan , senior officials of some of the Big Board 's 49 stock specialist firms complained that the exchange is no longer representing their interests . 
Ultimately , the specialists view this as yet another step toward electronic trading that could eventually destroy their franchise . 
. 
, especially as the exchange clearly relishes its role as the home for $ 200 billion in stock-index funds , which buy huge baskets of stocks to mimic popular stock-market indexes like the Standard & Poor 's 500 , and which sometimes employ program trading . 
, and which sometimes employ program trading . 
, but only as long as it `` handles it intelligently , '' Mr. Phelan said . 
, but only as long as it `` handles it intelligently , '' Mr. Phelan said . 
, but that can be fixed with some fine-tuning . 
, '' Mr. Phelan said . 
. 
, but it 's only a piece of the business . '' 
For example , Mr. Phelan said that big institutions have so much control over public investments that they can cause big swings in the market , regardless of index arbitrage . 
But we 're not going back to 1970 . '' 
Indeed , Mr. Phelan said that if stock-market volatility persists , the U.S. may lose its edge as being the best place to raise capital . 
. 
. '' 
, and even Europeans are suspicious . 
For now , however , Mr. Phelan said : `` I refuse to get out there and tell everybody everything is hunky-dory . We have a major problem , and that problem is volatility . '' 
, and that problem is volatility . '' 
The legislation also includes a lower `` training wage '' for new workers who are teen-agers . 
because it did n't prevent sharp price swings , has been under attack recently for not taking action against program trading . 
, though the suitor said all terms are negotiable . 
as the Georgia-Pacific bid broke the market 's recent gloom . 
The dollar and bond prices also closed higher . 
Meanwhile , new-home sales plunged 14 % in the month . 
as Britain unexpectedly decided to end restrictions blocking a takeover of the luxury car maker . 
, but it 's unclear whether the increases , set for Jan. 1 , 1990 , will stick . 
after pleading guilty to conspiracy to make illegal political contributions and tax evasion . 
as improved oil results failed to offset weakness in the firm 's steel and natural gas operations . 
. 
But later in the day , a report by the Purchasing Management Association of Chicago cast doubt on the recession scenario . 
after having been below 50 % for three consecutive months . 
while a reading above 50 % suggests that the industry is expanding . 
after the Chicago report was released . 
while three-year and four-year notes were slightly lower . 
while mortgage-backed securities were up about 1\/8 point . 
. 
if they 're doing a sizable 30-year bullet , '' said one analyst . 
if investor demand is strong . 
. '' 
Short-term rates also were mixed . 
after it became clear the company would have to give investors higher yields . 
, while the $ 100 million of senior subordinated floating rate notes were priced to float at 4.25 percentage points above the London Interbank Offered Rate , or LIBOR . 
, and several issues have been postponed . 
`` However , given the changes in the market conditions that have occurred since then , we decided to sell only the amount needed to proceed with our contemplated recapitalization , '' he said . 
By October , however , market conditions had deteriorated and the reset notes were targeted to be offered at a yield of between 13 1\/4 % and 13 1\/2 % . 
and the reset notes were targeted to be offered at a yield of between 13 1\/4 % and 13 1\/2 % . 
Mr. Carmichael said investors also demanded stricter convenants . 
and today we bounced back . 
and the calendar is lightening up a bit . 
, but traders said the market remains bearish due to speculation that interest rates could rise again . 
while the 6 3\/4 % notes due July 1994 rose 0.025 point to 97.275 to yield 7.445 % . 
as investors awaited an address on economic policy by John Major , the new Chancellor of the Exchequer . 
while the 11 3\/4 % notes due 1991 were unchanged at 98 21\/32 to yield 12.95 % . 
, but industry executives said the units were sold for $ 40 million . 
GASB rules still apply for other government units . 
unless the GASB superceded them . 
unless the GASB superceded them . 
But it may lead to separate financial reports based on different rules for the government entities under FASB rules and those still under GASB rules . 
and that the company 's loss was smaller on a cash basis . 
. '' 
and Avery 's shareholder value would `` continue to erode . '' 
, the company said . 
For at least the next six months , however , Avery will continue to pay $ 200,000 a month for management services to a company controlled by Messrs. Peltz and May , according to the proxy material . 
and that it planned to seek a majority of seats on Rally 's nine-member board . 
Meanwhile , Japan 's Fair Trade Commission said it was considering launching an investigation into whether the bid , the equivalent of less than a penny , violates anti-monopoly laws . 
, but Fujitsu won the contract by essentially saying it would do the job for free . 
before deciding what to do . 
The consumer agency also disputed Newmark & Lewis 's continuing strategy of advertising `` new lower prices '' when allgedly there have n't been price reductions since June 1 . 
'' when allgedly there have n't been price reductions since June 1 . 
, and another four were utilities . 
when inflation is high . 
Utility stocks , on the other hand , thrive on disinflation , because the fat dividends utilities pay look more attractive when prices are falling -LRB- or rising slowly -RRB- . 
, because the fat dividends utilities pay look more attractive when prices are falling -LRB- or rising slowly -RRB- . 
when prices are falling -LRB- or rising slowly -RRB- . 
But the two groups have something very important in common : They are both havens for scared money , stocks for people who hate stocks . 
-- even if they do n't know what . 
. 
Indeed , that happened to some extent yesterday , as industrial stocks rebounded , partly on news of takeovers in the paper industry . 
, as industrial stocks rebounded , partly on news of takeovers in the paper industry . 
Still , a lot of investors clearly have revived their interest in gold and utility shares . 
, and big auto makers are idling plants . 
Britain 's unsettled political scene also worries some investors . 
, '' says Larry Wachtel , a market analyst with Prudential-Bache Securities . 
But many of these stocks have now become expensive . 
But the two groups represent a further step in defensiveness . 
. 
But by Mr. Granville 's count , 493 issues were within one point of such lows . 
But he does expect `` a muffler dragger '' of an economy , with `` very slow growth , maybe one quarter of no growth at all . '' 
because they move counter to the general market . '' 
Nevertheless , Mr. Stovall emphasizes that `` you do n't buy -LCB- gold stocks -RCB- based on powerful fundamentals . '' 
unless the gold price hops up over $ 425 an ounce , '' he says . 
Abby Cohen , an investment strategist for Drexel Burnham Lambert , also thinks it makes sense to have some money in both utilities and gold . 
But `` a bunch of utilities '' should post profit increases . 
when the dollar is weak , as it has been lately . 
and to suggest otherwise is penny-wise and pound-foolish . 
because there are new crises . 
. 
but is rather the integral , symbiotic player within nature 's workings . 
, but I wish it could have gone one step further . 
so I can explain it to corporate colleagues facing major changes in product design . 
, but recent conversations with Mr. Scotto indicated that he knew of no recent changes in the trend . 
This , in turn , threatens the massive vested interests of which you have written . 
, which was , ironically , a schedule for getting rid of HCFCs , the so-called soft CFCs that are such an important part of the CFC substitution scenario . 
But this is almost an underground activity . 
. 
. 
However , unlike Messrs. Graedel and Crutzen , who are both pioneers in the study of atmospheric chemistry , Mr. Teagan has no special expertise in the area . 
'' and that environmental groups need them to stay in business . 
. 
Richard Rifenburgh , chairman and chief executive of the Longmont , Colo. , disk-drive maker , also said the company continued losing money in the third quarter and expects to sustain further losses through the end of the year . 
if settlement talks fail . 
Mr. Rifenburgh also noted that 150 million shares of MiniScribe common stock were traded during the past three years , `` so there 's a tremendous amount of exposure . '' 
, `` so there 's a tremendous amount of exposure . '' 
MiniScribe also has n't filed any financial statements for 1989 . 
one day after it introduced its new line of one-inch disk drives , on which it is pinning much of its hope for survival . 
; the company plans to introduce a 120-megabyte drive next year . 
and that the industry already operates on very thin margins . 
The company also faces delisting by the National Association of Securities Dealers . 
Meanwhile , U.S. Attorney Jerry Rafferty in Denver is reviewing the report prepared by MiniScribe 's outside directors , to determine if criminal charges should be brought before a grand jury . 
The internal investigation also criticized MiniScribe 's auditors , Coopers & Lybrand , for allegedly ignoring numerous red flags . 
-- and why voters in , say , West Virginia got a federally funded university project and building while voters in Arkansas did not . 
while voters in Arkansas did not . 
But nobody did such a piece , reflecting a contemporary axiom : the more a scandal has to do with a congressman 's duties as a congressman , the less likely it is to catch the fancy of a network . 
And , since the public has always been fascinated by gossip and voyeurism , reporters and editors will strain for creative angles to justify the inclusion of collateral facts about private lives including sexual activities and domestic relationships , activities of family members , and all matters about mental and physical health . 
. 
Similarly , visual images will be more vivid , sensational and , sometimes , gruesome . 
that had previously been the sole domain of securities firms . 
However , the Fed limited the revenue that banks could earn from these new underwriting activities to no more than 10 % of the revenue earned from other securities activities long open to banks , such as dealing in U.S. Treasurys . 
But , by allowing BT Securities Inc. to handle private placements , the Fed boosted the volume of new types of underwriting that the unit can do . 
Otherwise , actual profit is compared with the 300-day estimate . 
. 
But today , the company needs its entrepreneurial spirit more than ever . 
Thus , Mr. Sinyard 's company must innovate more than ever to stay ahead of them , by developing new products specifically for mountain biking . 
At the same time , though , it must become more structured to better manage its growth . 
-- especially when their success attracts big-time competitors . 
. '' 
while working for Citicorp , such as management-by-objective , detailed project plans and forecasts of company sales and product trends . 
, '' Mr. Eidsmo says . 
`` But it 's risky , '' he says of Specialized 's attempt to adopt a corporate structure . 
At the trade show , Specialized also unveiled a revolutionary three-spoked bike wheel developed jointly by Specialized and Du Pont Co . 
, though Mr. Sinyard thinks the price can be reduced within three years to between $ 200 and $ 250 . 
But demands on the company 's creativity are certain to grow . 
as larger companies invade a mountain-bike market Mr. Sinyard 's company once had virtually all to itself . 
, they also offer profit margins nearly double the 25 % to 30 % or so on sales of complete cycles . 
Trek previously made only traditional road bikes , but `` it did n't take a rocket scientist to change a road bike into a mountain bike , '' says Trek 's president , Dick Burke . 
, but `` it did n't take a rocket scientist to change a road bike into a mountain bike , '' says Trek 's president , Dick Burke . 
since the company entered the U.S. mountain-bike business in 1987 . 
But as Bill Austin , Giant 's president , puts it , `` With some of the bigger players consolidating their strength , the game has changed . 
I.C.H. also named Steven B. Bing , 42 , senior vice president since 1986 , as president , succeeding John W. Gardiner , who will join the HMS Acquisition Corp. division of Hicks , Muse & Co. , which has agreed to buy most of I.C.H. 's Denver-based subsidiaries . 
except to say it was a multiyear agreement . 
before the satellite-TV venture makes its delayed debut next spring -- with a major chunk coming from new investors . 
And we 'll raise it through existing shareholders '' as well as through junk bonds , said Anthony Simonds-Gooding , the private consortium 's chief executive . 
, and analysts have speculated Hollywood studios might buy the Bond stake . 
But Mr. Simonds-Gooding said he is n't talking to any studios about investing . 
. ' '' 
The bankers also insist that the loans depend on the consortium raising more money from new and existing backers . 
, while trading in Frankfurt , West Germany , was mixed . 
after Wall Street opened stronger . 
But it showed strength throughout the session , hitting a low of only 2102.2 within the first few minutes of dealings . 
Turnover was also down substantially from 840.8 million shares on Friday . 
. 
after it disclosed plans to spin off its textiles operations into a separately listed company on Jan. 1 . 
after a senior executive of Daimler-Benz , the auto maker , told a British television interviewer during the weekend that the West German company held talks with the luxury auto maker over possible joint ventures . 
. 
Petroleum companies were also popular because of expectations of a weaker dollar , which cuts dollar-denominated crude-oil prices . 
as investors waited for Wall Street to set the direction for the week . 
, boosted by special factors , while the majority of shares ended little changed . 
, though it is dwarfed by B.A.T Industries PLC 's plans to spin off roughly # 4 billion in assets to help fend off a takeover bid from Anglo-French financier Sir James Goldsmith . 
, because the two entities separately will carry a higher price earnings multiple than they did combined . 
In addition , Courtaulds said the moves are logical because they will allow both the chemicals and textile businesses to focus more closely on core activities . 
because they will allow both the chemicals and textile businesses to focus more closely on core activities . 
since takeover speculators -- including Australian financier Kerry Packer -- surfaced holding small stakes last year . 
. 
if they are separately quoted companies . 
The sharper definition and the autonomy which each will thereby gain will benefit shareholders , customers and employees . '' 
, while the local partner has a 60 % stake . 
Officials also disclosed it 's possible that NEC may reduce domestic production of one-megabit chips to five million a month from six million , beginning January , because of deteriorating market prices . 
, but the official said it does n't necessarily mean that local sales contracts are increasing that markedly . 
But market activity was energized as investors started to view the lower price levels as attractive . 
as investors started to view the lower price levels as attractive . 
And the Treasury 's $ 17.6 billion auction of short-term bills , which generated strong buying interest , helped to lift the bond market out of the doldrums . 
and that is one reason why the market advanced '' late in the day , said Sung Won Sohn , senior vice president and chief economist at Norwest Corp. , Minneapolis . 
He said the change in sentiment also reflected perceptions that the slate of economic statistic due this week will be `` conducive to a bond market rally . '' 
and on Thursday comes October chain-store sales . 
. 
if Congress and President Bush fail to increase the Treasury 's borrowing capacity . 
and investment-grade corporate bonds were unchanged . 
and the rate on six-month bills was 7.62 % . 
before the current authority to issue debt expires at midnight tonight , yesterday 's auction was structured differently from previous sales . 
And because of the early settlement , the three-month bills actually have a 93-day maturity , and the six-month bills have an 184-day maturity . 
, and the six-month bills have an 184-day maturity . 
However , analysts expect the Fed to buy Treasury bills that were auctioned yesterday in the secondary market . 
The Treasury also held a hastily scheduled $ 2 billion sale of 51-cash management bills yesterday . 
Thus , higher bidding narrows the investor 's return while lower bidding widens it . 
while lower bidding widens it . 
, while the coupon equivalent yield is based on a 365-day year . 
, and the 26-week bills mature May 3 , 1990 . 
after the company said it wo n't proceed with an exchange offer to holders of its reset notes . 
. 
Other Western Union securities were also lower . 
, while the 10 3\/4 % subordinated debentures of 1997 were being bid for at 28 and offered at around 34 3\/4 . 
, and in certain cases , bids for Western Union securities are not available . 
and $ 150 million of subordinated floating rate notes also maturing in 1997 . 
Meanwhile , underwriters at Morgan Stanley & Co. are expected today to price a $ 350 million high-yield offering by Continental Cablevision Inc . 
, and its 10 % issue at 102 3\/8 , up 4\/32 . 
, as they assess potential claims from the recent California earthquake and hurricane in the Carolinas . 
because they have higher yields than topgrade corporate bonds and carry the guarantee of Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae , quasi-federal agencies . 
, but the spread between the contract and Tbond futures continued to grow more negative . 
as cash municipals rebounded . 
But front month T-bond futures settled the afternoon session up a slightly greater 13\/32 at 99-04 . 
, while the Treasury 's 12 % notes due 1995 rose 7\/32 to 103 5\/8 to yield 11.04 % . 
, while the 6 3\/4 % notes due 1994 fell 0.35 point to 97.25 to yield 7.45 % . 
as the dollar remained resilient against the yen . 
However , the total value declined for deals of $ 100 million and up . 
, When we notice around our airport A holding pattern for witches . 
It is also likely to bolster fears that the Japanese will use their foothold in U.S. biotechnology concerns to gain certain trade and competitive advantages . 
Chugai agreed then to fund certain associated research and development costs . 
, and Thomas A. Bologna , president and chief executive officer of Gen-Probe , founded in 1983 , said the sale of the company means `` we will be able to concentrate on running the business rather than always looking for sources of financing . '' 
. 
Chugai also will help Gen-Probe with its regulatory and marketing expertise in Asia , Mr. Bologna said . 
But after a few pleasantries , the Soviets unexpectedly got serious . 
The visitors then listed technologies up for sale , including launch services and propulsion hardware . 
But `` the Soviet Union has areas where it is n't behind Japan , '' says Mikhail Shapovalov of the Soviet Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations . 
, and some Japanese favor decreasing their reliance on U.S. technology in light of the FSX fighter-plane flap , when U.S. officials reversed an earlier decision and refused to share certain crucial fighter-plane technology . 
And , despite its image as a technology superpower , Japan has a lot of weaknesses . 
, but its aviation industry is struggling , and its space program is years behind the U.S. , the Europeans and the Soviets . 
, and its space program is years behind the U.S. , the Europeans and the Soviets . 
The Soviets also hope to make better use of their considerable expertise in theoretical science , which has helped them win twice as many Nobel science prizes as the Japanese . 
By contrast , the Japanese have proved adept at making use of Soviet inventions . 
until it developed its own system . 
, and some Soviet officials say Moscow will even consider declassifying military know-how if the price is right . 
if the price is right . 
But , while the Soviets ca n't expect direct technology flow from Japan , they also hope to benefit from Japanese manufacturing expertise . 
. 
, they also hope to benefit from Japanese manufacturing expertise . 
, but it has been difficult to put that into actual production because of various structural problems in the economy , '' says Mr. Shapovalov , the Foreign Ministry official . 
. 
And what they have shown is n't impressive . 
, but most survived . 
And the industry was rife with brokers trying to secure big client orders by using kickbacks , gifts , women and junkets . 
But there are currently more exchange members than in 1975 , with the bigger houses gaining a larger share of total commissions . 
Commissions , however , account for a smaller share of investment-house business as takeover advisory fees have soared . 
as takeover advisory fees have soared . 
Foreign stock markets , with which the U.S. is entwined , also have ended fixed commissions in recent years . 
Michael Boskin , chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers , also will be a member . 
In addition , the White House said that Charles Harper , chairman of ConAgra Inc. , and John McGillicuddy , chairman of Manufacturers Hanover Corp. , will be among a group of at least 15 business and labor representatives in the presidential mission . 
But record industry executives familiar with the talks said Mr. Azoff and Warner came to an agreement yesterday to form a 50-50 joint-venture company funded by Warner and run by Mr. Azoff . 
, the sources said . 
, it is possible that he could do so later , the sources said . 
For Warner , meanwhile , it gives the company a second young partner with a finger on the pulse of the hottest trends in the music business . 
But Mr. Azoff had been negotiating for more than a year to get out of his MCA contract , which expired in 1991 . 
Mr. Azoff also was eager to return to a more entrepreneurial role in which he had a big financial stake in his own efforts . 
Yet the rowing machine has n't been touched since , even though he has moved it across the country with him twice . 
, even though he has moved it across the country with him twice . 
when he first got the machine , but , he complains , it left grease marks on his carpet , `` and it was boring . 
, but , he complains , it left grease marks on his carpet , `` and it was boring . 
, `` and it was boring . 
The survey also detected a bit more interest in golf , a positive sign for country clubs and golf club makers . 
, but people 's good intentions , if not their actions , are keeping sales of some fitness products healthy . 
For instance , sales of treadmills , exercise bikes , stair climbers and the like are expected to rise 8 % to about $ 1.52 billion this year , according to the National Sporting Goods Association , which sees the home market as one of the hottest growth areas for the 1990s . 
But even that group knows some people do n't use their machines as much as they should . 
Still , the average price of such bikes rose last year to $ 145 . 
Premark International Inc. , for example , peddles the M8.7sp Electronic Cycling Simulator , a $ 2,000 stationary cycle . 
But rather than write off home fitness equipment , she traded up : Ms. Igdaloff just paid about $ 900 for a fancier stationary bike , with a timer , dials showing average and maximum speeds and a comfortable seat that feels almost like a chair . 
. '' 
, and I 'm not on it , I feel guilty . '' 
and what they do . 
because asking people about their fitness regime is a bit like inquiring about their love life . 
, and that may mean they 've been to the beach this year , '' says Krys Spain , research specialist for the President 's Council on Physical Fitness and Sports . 
. 
But even that goal may prove optimistic . 
, and by pulling a golf cart , she still gets a good workout . 
after walking five hours , '' she says . 
, '' says Joyce Hagood , a Roxboro , N.C. , homemaker who walks several miles a week . 
`` And it 's relaxing . 
. '' 
But fully 90 % of those polled felt they did n't need to belong to a health club . 
, and everybody 's showing off , '' says Joel Bryant , a 22-year-old student from Pasadena , Calif . 
, and the girls are walking around in little things . 
But at least they show up . 
A spokeswoman adds , however , that the group is considering offering `` a behavior-modification course , similar to a smoking-cessation program , to teach people ways to stay with it . '' 
But not Richard Cottrell , a San Francisco cab driver who bowls in two weekly leagues . 
, but I like meeting the girls . '' 
, though that effort is sometimes thwarted by the fact that `` when I 'm drinking , I bowl better . '' 
. '' 
The central bank also unexpectedly raised the base rate by half a percentage point to 3.75 % Oct. 11 as part of an inflation-fighting move that indirectly increases interest rates charged on new home construction loans . 
If there 's somethin' strange in your neighborhood ... 
If there 's something ' weird and it do n't look good . 
and it do n't look good . 
. 
. 
, but your house still seems haunted , you can call any one of a swelling band of skeptics such as Richard Busch . 
, and he can even tell you how to encourage the spirits . 
, and then go to bed , '' he says . 
when haunts get out of hand . 
But they do n't careen around in an old Cadillac , wear funny suits or blast away at slimy spirits . 
. 
. 
, and the next thing you know , you 've got a haunting , '' he says . 
, but lately her vacuum cleaner turned itself on , a telephone flew off its stand , doors slammed inexplicably , and she heard footsteps in her empty kitchen . 
, and she heard footsteps in her empty kitchen . 
, and it was nobody , '' she says , eyes wide at the recollection . 
, and the receiver does seem to fly off . '' 
, and heavy traffic can sure set a house to vibrating . '' 
if the haunting continues . 
, and it usually works . '' 
, and he often obliges . 
, '' he says . 
But sometimes more energetic attacks are required . 
, and so does a television crew from New York City . 
and now his demonic ghost haunts it , Mr. Warren says . 
and then writhing . 
as the priest sprinkles holy water over the squirming woman , and the television camera grinds . 
, and the television camera grinds . 
But Mr. Warren says the woman has `` psychic burns '' on her back from the confrontation . 
as the ghostbusting entourage packs up to leave . 
`` This time though , '' he says , `` I think we got it . '' 
But survivors earn more . 
Average annual earnings of those who have hung on , though , surged to $ 78,625 last year from $ 69,553 in 1987 . 
But then it was acquired by Household International Inc . 
But then it was acquired by Household International Inc . 
But the Oct. 17 temblor put a halt to much nonessential building , and heavy rains last week slowed the rest , freeing construction workers for earthquake repairs . 
, and heavy rains last week slowed the rest , freeing construction workers for earthquake repairs . 
The supply of experienced civil engineers , though , is tighter . 
But , with the state offering only $ 39,000 a year and California 's high standard of living , `` there are n't too many to choose from , '' says Brent Scott , a recruiting officer . 
But stay tuned . 
if they make loans to retiree shareholders and directors but do n't make them available to other former workers who usually earned less . 
until the regulations are issued `` shortly . '' 
But violation could bring substantial tax penalties to both employer and employees . 
But three out of four managers ca n't accurately state the value of their own packages , consultant Noble Lowndes says . 
but firms say it 's too tough to run . 
Carnegie Mellon , though , says some students conclude they can help their careers most by hitting the books : `` They 're opting to build their resumes through good grades and leadership roles in fraternities . '' 
Still , the school says there are an ample number and pay is up to $ 7.20 an hour from $ 6.90 last year . 
and pay is up to $ 7.20 an hour from $ 6.90 last year . 
But after building up a commanding lead , the moderate to conservative Mr. Collor has slipped to about 30 % in the polls from a high of about 43 % only a few weeks ago . 
. 
, and three other candidates are given a chance of reaching the Dec. 17 runoff election between the two biggest vote-getters : Social Democrat Mario Covas and two conservatives , Paulo Salim Maluf , a former governor of the state of Sao Paulo , and Guilherme Afif Domingos . 
, analysts say , just as Argentinian President Carlos Saul Menem has been doing even though he was elected on a populist platform . 
even though he was elected on a populist platform . 
`` And where we are is bad . '' 
, but Argentina endured price increases of almost 200 % in July before bringing the rate down sharply in August and September . 
before bringing the rate down sharply in August and September . 
Still , massive internal debt has forced the government to borrow massively on the domestic market and to offer inflation-adjusted returns of 2 % to 3 % a month just to get investors to hold on to its paper . 
after picking up the telephone , and then to be interrupted by a busy signal before finishing dialing the number . 
, and then to be interrupted by a busy signal before finishing dialing the number . 
before finishing dialing the number . 
Officials also say a national electricity shortage might not be far off . 
Analysts also say it 's inevitable that Brazil will seek to renegotiate its $ 115 billion foreign debt , on which it suspended interest payments last month . 
Analysts say , however , that a tough economic program would have to be accompanied by measures to shield the poor from its recessionary effects , for instance by subsidizing staple food items . 
But his inexperience raises doubts that he would have the political power to carry them out . 
, but analysts say he probably would be pragmatic . 
But despite the differences in what they say , according to some analysts here , economic constraints mean the next president may not have many choices about what he does . 
But according to David Jones , Humana 's chief executive , it promotes technology monopolies , stifles innovation and raises prices . 
. 
But Humana says its own facilities could serve its insured for less if they were properly equipped . 
if they were properly equipped . 
. 
and that its regular charge for lithotripsy is $ 4,900 . 
Meanwhile , another hospital 's proposal for a new-generation lithotripter is pending before the board that administers the certificate-of-need law . Humana , which wants to acquire one of the new machines itself , is on the record as opposed to the proposal . 
And 81 % preferred a group practice or health maintenance organization , while just 11 % favored solo practice . 
, while just 11 % favored solo practice . 
. 
But unlike most patients , her roommate was her husband . 
, while they 're here , and it certainly makes them a better health-care team when they get home . '' 
, and it certainly makes them a better health-care team when they get home . '' 
when they get home . '' 
It also saves money . 
. 
Indeed , some individuals identified with the group said they have n't committed any money to the bid and were n't aware of it until they heard about it in local news accounts over the weekend . 
until they heard about it in local news accounts over the weekend . 
But in an interview , Mr. McMaster said he and his investment banker would need access to full financial records before firming up the offer . 
before firming up the offer . 
It also hopes to enter the U.S. market . 
largely because the provisions of its senior notes restrict it from making distributions on its units outstanding . 
However , unpaid distributions on the acquisition preferred are cumulative and would total $ 23 million a year , hurting NRM 's financial flexibility and its ability to raise capital , NRM said . 
In following several other oil and gas partnerships that have made the conversion to a corporation in the last year , NRM also noted that tax advantages for partnerships have diminished under new tax laws and said it would save $ 2 million a year in administrative costs from the change . 
, and current stockholders of Edisto will own about 6.4 % , about the same stake as Edisto owns now in NRM . 
, while the Los Angeles-based Whittaker coatings group produces industrial coatings . 
until it moves to a new quarters in 1992 . 
. 
because we did n't have wildly volatile days , '' says Tyler Jenks , research director for Kanon Bloch Carre & Co. , a Boston research firm . 
But if reinvested dividends are excluded , investors put in only $ 340 million more than they pulled out for the month . 
. 
And some fund groups said investors actually became net buyers . 
But the stock market swings have continued . 
But he emphasized that new accounts , new sales , inquiries and subsequent sales of stock funds are all up this month from September 's level . 
, then it will be a different story , '' he says . 
But , Mr. Hines adds , sales `` based on a few days ' events do n't tell you much about October 's trends . '' 
. 
when Vice President Quayle voiced similar sentiments . 
It 's somehow OK for Secretary Baker himself , however , to say all the same things . 
In fact , he did ; the quotes above are from Mr. Baker 's speech of two weeks ago . 
if he is going to succeed . 
But everyone agrees that Mr. Gorbachev 's problems result from the failure of his own system . 
, nor will a START treaty make any difference to Ukrainian nationalists . 
On the other hand , so long as Mr. Gorbachev is easing his grip on his empire , everyone we 've heard agrees that the U.S. can benefit by engaging him . 
? 
, but conventional-arms talks might demilitarize Eastern Europe . 
, and it would be nice to think that Washington could tolerate a reasonably sophisticated , complex view . 
Yet much of the political culture seems intent on castigating the Bush administration for not `` helping '' Mr. Gorbachev . 
So every time a Bush official raises a doubt about Mr. Gorbachev , the Washington community shouts `` Cold War '' and `` timidity , '' and an administration spokesman is quickly trotted out to reply , `` Mr. Bush wants perestroika to succeed . '' 
, '' and an administration spokesman is quickly trotted out to reply , `` Mr. Bush wants perestroika to succeed . '' 
In short , the problem is not intra-administration disagreement , but preoccupation with the prospect that perestrokia might fail , and its political opponents will ask `` Who lost Gorbachev ? '' 
, and its political opponents will ask `` Who lost Gorbachev ? '' 
, but as Secretary of State his audience is the entire Free World , not just Congress . 
. 
, so any federal capital-punishment law probably would turn out to be more symbolism than substance . 
Yet the bill is riding high on the furor over drug trafficking . 
. 
But in 1976 , the court permitted resurrection of such laws , if they meet certain procedural requirements . 
, if they meet certain procedural requirements . 
For instance , juries would have to consider specific `` aggravating '' and `` mitigating '' factors before deciding whether to condemn someone to death . 
before deciding whether to condemn someone to death . 
But congressional Democrats have blocked the same from occurring at the federal level , with the exception of a 1988 law allowing capital punishment for certain drug-related homicides . 
The Thurmond bill would also add five new crimes punishable by death , including murder for hire . 
-LRB- Separately , the Senate last week passed a bill permitting execution of terrorists who kill Americans abroad . -RRB- 
-- killing a Supreme Court justice , for instance , or deliberately causing a train wreck that results in a death . 
In fact , only 28 defendants would have been eligible for federal death sentences if the Thurmond bill had been in effect in the past three years , according to a study by the Senate Judiciary Committee 's Democratic staff . 
. 
, but they contend that is n't the point . 
Executions , regardless of how frequently they occur , are also `` proper retribution '' for heinous crimes , Mr. Hatch argues . 
, though that has n't happened so far . 
. 
And the Kennedy amendment would invade not only federal but state sentencings , in two important ways . 
And it would shift the burden to prosecutors to disprove that discrimination caused any statistical racial disparities . 
, Mr. Boyd explains . 
, and it will be severely attacked on the Senate floor this time around . 
But if it survives , it could prompt other statutory changes , according to the Mr. Burr . 
. 
And that , in turn , would only strengthen the argument of those who oppose execution under any circumstances . 
And that , in turn , would only strengthen the argument of those who oppose execution under any circumstances . 
, but he made no comment and asked no questions . 
He also contended that the plaintiffs failed to cite any legal authority that would justify such an injunction . 
, but they have n't been able to reach agreement on the amount . 
The Lone Star Steel lawsuit also asks the court to rule that Lone Star Technologies is jointly responsible for a $ 4.5 million Lone Star Steel pension payment that was due , but was n't paid , in September and that the parent company ca n't recover the amount from its subsidiary if the parent company makes the payment . 
and that the parent company ca n't recover the amount from its subsidiary if the parent company makes the payment . 
if the parent company makes the payment . 
Separately , Lone Star Technologies said the bankruptcy court granted Lone Star Steel an extension until year end on its exclusive period to present a reorganization plan . 
while it tries to work out a plan to pay its debt . 
But as Judge Thomas M. Jenkins donned his robes so he could give final approval , the major earthquake struck , its epicenter not far from his courtroom in Redwood City , Calif . 
. 
so he could give final approval , the major earthquake struck , its epicenter not far from his courtroom in Redwood City , Calif . 
and an evacuation alarm blared outside . 
as he climbed to his bench . 
And the lawyers were just as eager as the judge to wrap it up . 
Indeed , the insurance adjusters had already bolted out of the courtroom . 
. '' says Judge Jenkins , now known in his courthouse as `` Shake 'Em Down Jenkins . '' 
and that these wigs are made from horses ' tails . 
Indeed , the `` art of doctoring '' does contribute to better health results and discourages unwarranted malpractice litigation . 
And it is estimated that more than 20 % of that , $ 70 billion , goes to `` defensive medicine '' -- those measures taken by doctors to protect themselves from the most unlikely possibilities . 
So we all stand to benefit if patient-physician relations become a `` partnership . '' 
if patient-physician relations become a `` partnership . '' 
or when Chrysler will make the moves . 
But he said , `` we have too many plants in our system . So the older or most inefficient capacity has got to go . '' 
So the older or most inefficient capacity has got to go . '' 
'' if market demand does n't improve . 
But Mr. Iacocca 's remarks are the most specific indication to date of how many plants could be in jeopardy . 
as it struggles to trim its excess vehicle-production capacity . 
, '' Mr. Lutz said last month . 
U.S. and that will translate into `` market share that is going to have to come out of somebody , '' he added . 
when it bought American Motors Corp. in 1987 . 
Chrysler has also launched a $ 1 billion cost-cutting program that will cut about 2,300 white-collar workers from the payroll in the next few months . 
, '' because under Chapter 11 Revco has `` exclusivity rights '' until Feb. 28 . 
Also under Chapter 11 , a reorganization plan is subject to approval by bondholders , banks and other creditors . 
, '' and that the Bass group 's offer would give them more money . 
However , the group is offering to pay off bondholders in cash only -- $ 260.5 million -- and no equity . 
only after a copy of the proposal was made public by bondholders . 
and the current $ 515 million debt load is keeping Revco in the red . 
, '' said Jeffrey Stein , an analyst at McDonald & Co. , Cleveland . 
`` If bought at the right price , it could still be profitable , '' said Jeffrey Stein , an analyst at McDonald & Co. , Cleveland . 
In addition , Revco 's 1,900 stores in 27 states represent a lot of real estate , he said , and demographics are helping pharmacies : The nation 's aging population will boost demand for prescription drugs . 
, he said , and demographics are helping pharmacies : The nation 's aging population will boost demand for prescription drugs . 
The partnership also includes American Express Co. , Equitable Life Assurance Society of the U.S. and Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc . 
, but creditors and bondholders would receive no discount for their shares . 
, but little progress has been made since negotiations began this summer . 
since negotiations began this summer . 
because it must be agreed upon by the company , bondholders , banks and other creditors . 
But Mr. Schulte , the bondholders ' adviser , said Revco was dragging its feet in responding to the proposal . 
, and the losses , individually and cumulatively , were greater than the advances . 
Also , the premiums paid by the U.S. government on a purchase of copper for the U.S. Mint were lower than expected , and acted as a price depressant , analysts said . 
. 
But as Highland Valley and Cananea begin operating , they are expected to resume their roles as Japan 's suppliers . 
. 
and Cananea is expected to do so soon . '' 
However , traders disregarded a potential production disruption in Chile and a continued drop in inventories . 
after a two-year labor pact ends today . 
. 
But that development also had little effect on traders ' sentiment . 
But that development also had little effect on traders ' sentiment . 
, and stocks of copper held by consumers and merchants outside of the U.S. at the end of July stood at 123,000 tons , down from 125,000 tons in June . 
as farmers in the Midwest continued to rebuild stockpiles that were depleted by the 1988 drought . 
, but a lack of any new purchases kept prices in the doldrums . 
These reports were later denied by a high Brazilian official , who said Brazil was n't involved in any coffee discussions on quotas , the analyst said . 
The minister was also quoted as saying that a new pact could be achieved during the first half of next year , according to the analyst . 
. 
, he said , but yesterday the market lacked such stimuli . 
because prices for all the precious metals had risen to levels at which there was resistance to further advance , he said . 
The dollar was also slightly firmer and prompted some selling , as well , according to the analyst . 
. 
and that the whole process might be reversed . 
, as economic liberalization within communist societies leads inexorably to demands for fundamental political reform accompanied by civil unrest . 
, as economic liberalization within communist societies leads inexorably to demands for fundamental political reform accompanied by civil unrest . 
when , last week , Secretary of State James Baker blocked a speech by Robert Gates , deputy national security adviser and Soviet expert , on the ground that it was too pessimistic about the chances of Mr. Gorbachev 's economic reforms succeeding . 
Yet the Soviet leader 's readiness to embark on foreign visits and steady accumulation of personal power , particularly since the last Politburo reshuffle on Sept. 30 , do not suggest that Mr. Gorbachev is on the verge of being toppled ; nor does he look likely to reverse the powers of perestroika . 
; nor does he look likely to reverse the powers of perestroika . 
Indeed , the Soviet miners strike this summer clearly demonstrated that Mr. Gorbachev must proceed with economic reform . 
But is he so clever that he has achieved the political equivalent of making water run uphill ? 
And has he truly persuaded the Communist Party to accept economic change of a kind that will , sooner or later , lead to its demise ? 
For example , while the laws on individual labor activity allow a citizen to earn a living independent of the state , strict provisions are attached on how far this may lead to the development of a free market . 
. 
. 
, and they appear to be exercising these powers . 
Private dressmaking , for example , is allowed in 10 Soviet republics but banned by five ; shoemaking is allowed in seven but illegal in nine . 
when first introduced . 
But that changed following a resolution from the Supreme Soviet banning cooperatives from operating in some areas of the economy , and permitting activity in others only if the cooperatives are under contract to the state . 
only if the cooperatives are under contract to the state . 
, but so is the manufacture of perfume , cosmetics , household chemicals and sand candles . 
. 
. 
, since it would immediately destroy the social situation and disrupt all the processes in the country . '' 
Indeed , Mr. Gorbachev 's proposals display a close conceptual resemblance to the tenets of Italian fascism , whose architects spoke specifically of a `` third way '' : of having produced a historic synthesis of socialism and capitalism . 
By contrast , a parliamentary system based on abstract political rights and groups was held to cause , rather than resolve , conflict . 
when Mr. Gorbachev presented his economic vision to the Soviet Congress . 
nor embraced the free market . 
Instead , he proposed a `` law-governed economy , '' in which there would be a `` clear-cut division between state direction of the economy and economic management . '' 
However , Mr. Gorbachev must ensure that within this `` alliance '' the business sector remains subordinate to the party . 
or its prices be reduced -RRB- . 
Mr. Gorbachev would appear to see his central task , however , as that of ensuring that foundations of an alliance among labor , capital and the state are properly laid before the demands for a multiparty system reach a crescendo . 
before the demands for a multiparty system reach a crescendo . 
. 
, while the North Central region was up 3 % . 
if contracting for housing does n't increase in response to this year 's lower mortgage rates , said George A. Christie , vice president and chief economist of Dodge , the forecasting division of publisher McGraw-Hill Inc . 
, largely because multifamily building rebounded from a very weak August . 
. 
, but the nine-month total of $ 36.9 billion was down 3 % from a year earlier . 
`` before the clock ran out , '' Mr. Christie said , referring to threatened 5 % across-the-board budget cuts . 
Moody 's also confirmed the Prime-1 rating , its highest , on CS First Boston 's commercial paper , or short-term corporate IOUs . 
In addition , Moody 's said it downgraded Financiere Credit Suisse-First Boston 's senior and subordinated Swiss debt to single-A-2 from single-A-1 and lowered Financiere CSFB N.V. 's junior subordinated perpetual Eurodebt , guaranteed by Financiere Credit Suisse -- First Boston , to single-A-3 from single-A-2 . 
as highly leveraged Campeau Corp. , First Boston 's most lucrative client of the decade , was hit by a cash squeeze and the high-risk junk bond market tumbled . 
and the high-risk junk bond market tumbled . 
as the high-risk junk bond market plummeted . 
'' and that `` a very significant portion '' of the firm 's profit in recent years has come from merchant banking-related business . 
Quotron also provides trading and other systems , services for brokerage firms , and communications-network services . 
as the major securities houses try to regain their hold on the production of market data and on the related revenue . 
, she said , but Quotron may subcontract some work that it has been doing in-house , including refurbishment and production of Quotron 1000 equipment used in delivering financial data . 
And Oct. 24 , Quotron said it will market the automated trading system of broker-dealer Chapdelaine Government Securities Inc . 
But Citicorp `` does view Quotron -RRB- as being crucial to the financial-services business in the 1990s , '' the analyst added . 
because both teams came from the San Francisco Bay area , is likely to end up as the lowest-rated Series of this decade and probably since the event has been broadcast . 
, and ABC Sports officials declined to be interviewed . 
But some industry executives said ABC , in anticipation of a four-game sweep , limited its losses by jacking up the number of commercials it aired in the third and fourth games . 
, but by the fourth game ABC was cramming in 60 to 62 ads to generate extra revenue . 
But other industry executives contend the losses could reach $ 250 million over four years and could go even higher if the World Series end in four-game romps . 
if the World Series end in four-game romps . 
Then came the earthquake and a damaging delay of 11 days . 
But interest instead decreased . 
But interest instead decreased . 
while bond prices and the dollar inched higher . 
after losing more than 92 points last week . 
, which gained slightly against the dollar . 
as major brokerage firms continued to throw in the towel on program trading . 
, and Merrill Lynch late yesterday took the major step of renouncing the trading strategy even for its clients . 
Yet that did n't eliminate program trading from the market . 
But interest waned as the day wore on and investors looked ahead to the release later this week of two important economic reports . 
as the day wore on and investors looked ahead to the release later this week of two important economic reports . 
and investors looked ahead to the release later this week of two important economic reports . 
But declining issues on the New York Stock Exchange outnumbered gainers 774 to 684 , and broader market indexes were virtually unchanged . 
, and broader market indexes were virtually unchanged . 
, nevertheless rose Monday to $ 1.5820 from Friday 's $ 1.5795 . 
? 
. 
, but their offices , with rows of clerks hunched over ledgers and abacuses , are more like scenes from a Dickens novel . 
Overall , PC sales in Japan in the first half of 1989 were 34 % higher than in the year-earlier period . 
And with a labor shortage and intense competitive pressure to improve efficiency , more and more Japanese companies are concluding that they have no choice . 
But it also offers opportunities ; Americans are well poised to supply the weapons . 
But it also offers opportunities ; Americans are well poised to supply the weapons . 
, and the U.S. is hopelessly behind Japan in certain technologies . 
But for now , at least , Americans are far better at making PCs and the software that runs them . 
But the Japanese have to go a long way to catch up . 
, and dog-eared copies of Nikkei Computer crowd magazine racks . 
But amid the two dozen bureaucrats and secretaries sits only one real-life PC . 
. 
Moreover , Japanese offices tend to use computers less efficiently than American offices do . 
The market planning and sales promotion office of Nomura Securities Co. , for example , has more than 30 computers for its 60 workers , a respectable ratio . 
But the machines are n't on employees ' desks ; they ring the perimeter of the large office . 
Meanwhile , a woman sitting next to a new Fujitsu terminal writes stock-market information on a chart with a pencil and adds it up with a hand calculator . 
, he says , but `` basically , there 's little analysis done on computers in Japan . '' 
, and many American companies have erred by purchasing technology they did n't understand . 
But healthy skepticism is only a small reason for Japan 's PC lag . 
, and so `` keyboard allergy , '' especially among older workers , remains a common affliction . 
, and so `` keyboard allergy , '' especially among older workers , remains a common affliction . 
, and so `` keyboard allergy , '' especially among older workers , remains a common affliction . 
. 
And Japan 's management system makes it hard to impose a single , integrated computer system corporatewide . 
Besides , a computer processing the Japanese language needs a huge memory and much processing capability , while the screen and printer need far better definition to depict accurately the intricate symbols . Until recently , much of the necessary technology has been unavailable or at least unaffordable . 
, while the screen and printer need far better definition to depict accurately the intricate symbols . 
But the complex language is n't the only reason . 
But early on , IBM offered its basic design to anybody wanting to copy it . 
because they can be sold to users of virtually any computer . 
. 
, and every one of the dozen or so makers has its own proprietary operating system -- all incompatible with each other . 
, but NEC was ahead from the start and did n't need to invite in competitive allies . 
Meanwhile , the big players have n't tried to copy the NEC standard . 
, and marketing one would jeopardize their relationship . '' 
. 
U.S. because hardware is four to five years behind , because NEC is enjoying a monopoly , '' complains Kazuhiko Nishi , the president of Ascii Corp. , one of Japan 's leading PC-magazine publishing and software companies . 
, because NEC is enjoying a monopoly , '' complains Kazuhiko Nishi , the president of Ascii Corp. , one of Japan 's leading PC-magazine publishing and software companies . 
because customers put a greater emphasis on quality and service than they do in the U.S. . 
U.S. because the Japanese still import basic operating systems from American companies . 
But the market is changing . 
but also to transform the way the company is run . 
so orders would be properly acted on , '' a spokesman says . 
`` But new managers will have to be creators and innovators ... and for that purpose it is necessary to create an environment where information from both inside and outside the company can be reached easily , and also shared . '' 
... and for that purpose it is necessary to create an environment where information from both inside and outside the company can be reached easily , and also shared . '' 
, and also shared . '' 
Meanwhile , more computer makers now are competing for the new business . 
, but this summer Microsoft rallied all the major NEC competitors to make their new machines compatible with the IBM OS\/2 standard . 
But it could also help American companies , which also are starting to try to open the market . 
But it could also help American companies , which also are starting to try to open the market . 
But it could also help American companies , which also are starting to try to open the market . 
. 
, '' says Eckhard Pfeiffer , who heads Compaq Computer Corp. 's European and international operations . 
. 
And because general retail centers such as ComputerLand have little presence in Japan , sales remain in the iron grip of established computer makers . 
. 
But the Americans are also to blame . 
But the Americans are also to blame . 
, and that was n't compatible even with the U.S. IBM standard . 
Critics also say American companies charge too much . 
But the U.S. companies are redoubling their efforts . 
and that substantially enhances compatibility with its American products . 
`` But it 's an enormous business opportunity . 
not only because it kills the unborn , a job at which it actually is not outstandingly efficient , zapping only 50 % to 85 % of them depending on which study you read -LRB- prostaglandin , taken in conjunction with the pill , boosts the rate to 95 % -RRB- . 
By contrast , surgical abortion is 99 % effective . 
, and the clinical part comprises a week 's worth of visits -RRB- , bloody -LRB- one woman in a Swedish trial required a transfusion , although for most it resembles a menstrual period , with bleeding lasting an average of 10 days -RRB- , and painful -LRB- many women require analgesic shots to ease them through -RRB- . 
, although for most it resembles a menstrual period , with bleeding lasting an average of 10 days -RRB- , and painful -LRB- many women require analgesic shots to ease them through -RRB- . 
about a week after a woman misses her menstrual period up through the seventh week of pregnancy , when it is markedly less effective . 
But `` safe , '' in the definition of Marie Bass of the Reproductive Health Technologies Project , means `` there 's been no evidence so far of mortality . '' 
after it is taken . 
But there are no scientific data on this question . 
However , Dr. Etienne-Emile Baulieu , the French physician who invented RU-486 , wrote in a Science magazine article last month that the rabbit-test results could not be duplicated in rats and monkeys . 
even if the drug fails to induce an abortion . 
, and the cost of testing and marketing a new drug can range from $ 30 million to $ 70 million . 
But the Population Council , a 37-year-old , $ 20 million nonprofit organization that has the backing of the Rockefeller and Mellon foundations and currently subsidizes most U.S. research on contraceptives , has recently been paying for U.S. studies of RU-486 on a license from its French developer , Roussel-Uclaf , a joint subsidiary of the German pharmaceutical company Hoechst and the French government . 
`` It also means she will never have to know whether she had actually been pregnant . '' 
Thus , a woman who used RU-486 to have an abortion would have to make three trips to the clinic past those picket lines ; an initial visit for medical screening -LRB- anemics and those with previous pregnancy problems are eliminated -RRB- and to take the pill , a second trip 48 hours later for the prostaglandin , administered either via injection or vaginal suppository , and a third trip a week later to make sure she has completely aborted . 
Furthermore , because timing is so critical with RU-486 , she will learn , via a pelvic examination and ultrasound , not only that she is pregnant , but just how pregnant she is . 
. 
. 
It also could put the government into the RU-486 business , which would please feminists dismayed at what they view as pusillanimity in the private-sector drug industry . 
until a first generation of female guinea pigs -- all of whom will be more than happy to volunteer for the job -- has put the abortion pill through the clinical test of time . 
These revised figures also may explain some of the recent strength of the dollar . 
, but a trade deficit that is significantly smaller than we imagined does suggest a review of our trade posture . 
, but it does suggest that it is our exports of services , and not just borrowing , that is financing our imports of goods . 
Corp. , even though their failure to obtain $ 7.2 billion in bank loans for the buy-out was the main reason for its collapse . 
even if the transaction was n't completed , provided the group did n't breach the agreement . 
The buy-out group is also entitled to $ 16 million to repay a fund created by the pilots union for an employee stock ownership plan . 
Separately , UAL stock rose $ 4 a share to $ 175 in composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange on reports that Los Angeles investor Marvin Davis has asked United Airlines unions if they 're interested in cooperating with Mr. Davis in a new bid for UAL . 
But neither the pilots nor the machinists appear interested , and Mr. Davis is barred from making a new bid under terms of an agreement he made with UAL in September unless UAL accepts an offer below $ 300 a share . 
, and Mr. Davis is barred from making a new bid under terms of an agreement he made with UAL in September unless UAL accepts an offer below $ 300 a share . 
unless UAL accepts an offer below $ 300 a share . 
, and Merrill Lynch & Co. pulled out of the practice altogether . 
. 
when giant Contel Corp. said it and 20 or more of the Big Board 's listed companies are forming an unprecedented alliance to complain about the exchange 's role in program trading . 
, because the big securities firm will no longer execute stock-index arbitrage trades for customers . 
Merrill also said it is lobbying for significant regulatory controls on program trading , including tough margin -- or down-payment -- requirements and limits on price moves for program-driven financial futures . 
, '' so Merrill wo n't execute such trades until `` effective controls '' are in place . 
until `` effective controls '' are in place . 
Last Thursday , PaineWebber Group Inc. also said it would cease index arbitrage altogether , but the firm was n't as big an index arbitrager as Merrill is . 
, but the firm was n't as big an index arbitrager as Merrill is . 
'' and Kidder 's customers were `` sophisticated '' enough to know that . 
But yesterday , Mr. Carpenter said big institutional investors , which he would n't identify , `` told us they would n't do business with firms '' that continued to do index arbitrage for their own accounts . 
But at least one chief executive said he called Mr. Welch to complain about Kidder 's aggressive use of program trading , and other market sources said they understood that Mr. Welch received many phone calls complaining about Kidder 's reliance on index arbitrage as a major business . 
, and other market sources said they understood that Mr. Welch received many phone calls complaining about Kidder 's reliance on index arbitrage as a major business . 
But Merrill Lynch , in its statement about pulling out of index arbitrage , suggested that the current debate has missed the mark . 
Indeed , there are legitimate hedging strategies used by managers of large portfolios such as pension funds that involve program trading as a means of protecting the assets of their pension beneficiaries . '' 
, so there probably wo n't be any layoffs at the firm , people familiar with Merrill 's program operation said . 
Meanwhile , Bear Stearns Chairman and Chief Executive Alan C. Greenberg said his firm will continue stock-index arbitrage for its clients . 
, '' Mr. Greenberg said . 
And there was speculation yesterday that Fidelity Investments and other large mutual-fund companies might soon follow the lead of Kemper Corp. and other institutions in cutting off trading business to securities firms that do program trading . 
But a much smaller mutual fund company , the USAA Investment Management Co. unit of USAA , San Antonio , Texas , said it informed nine national brokerage firms it will cease business with them unless they stop index-arbitrage trading . 
unless they stop index-arbitrage trading . 
because he received so many phone calls , faxes and letters supporting his view that the Big Board has been turned into a `` gambling casino '' by program traders . 
when he recognized the kylix , which he , as a specialist in Attic pottery and a careful reader of the Stolen Art Alert in `` IFAR Reports , '' knew was stolen . 
, and the waiting man , apparently innocent of knowledge that the kylix was stolen , agreed to release it . 
, and in short order it was given over to a Chubb & Son representative . 
, soon after Ms. Hammond took her post . 
But on Oct. 6 , he had reason to celebrate . 
Instead , New York City police seized the stolen goods , and Mr. Krisher avoided jail . 
, and Mr. Krisher avoided jail . 
, and paper work showing that the crates had cleared customs was misplaced , so it was a week before three of the four crates could be located in a bonded warehouse and the Gauguin discovered missing . 
, so it was a week before three of the four crates could be located in a bonded warehouse and the Gauguin discovered missing . 
. '' 
, but routine police work led to the recovery . 
Then they took the art to Acapulco and began to trade some of it for cocaine . 
, and the U.S. State Department notified IFAR of the theft in February 1988 . 
, but Robert Lawrence Trotter , 35 , of Kennett Square , Pa. , took his fooling seriously . 
because the windshield adhesive was improperly applied to some cars . 
Separately , Ford and Mazda Motor Corp. 's U.S. sales arm said they are recalling about 88,500 1988-model Mercury Tracers and 220,000 1986 , 1987 and 1988 model Mazda 323s equipped with 1.6-liter fuel-injected engines to replace the oil filler cap . 
. 
so the windshields can be removed and securely reinstalled . 
Both also will inspect and replace , if necessary , oil filters and oil strainers , at no charge to owners . 
Separately , Ford said it will offer $ 750 cash rebates to buyers of its 1990-model Ford Bronco sport utility vehicle . 
It said it will also offer buyers the option of financing as low as 6.9 % on 24-month loans . 
Ford also offered the low financing rate option on 1989-model Broncos , which previously carried a $ 750 cash discount . 
, which previously carried a $ 750 cash discount . 
The ruling also may determine how quickly LTV is able to complete its Chapter 11 reorganization . 
to keep its insurance liability from increasing . 
, but workers do n't accrue new benefits . 
. 
But the agency viewed the creation of the new plans as an abuse of federal pension law and an attempt to transfer the liability of the $ 2.3 billion shortfall from LTV to federal insurance . 
The agency also concluded that LTV 's financial status had improved while it was under reorganization . 
while it was under reorganization . 
, and a federal district court in New York in June 1988 ruled that the agency improperly ordered LTV to reassume responsibility for the plans . 
The appeals court also said the agency had to consider a company 's long-term ability to fund pension plans , not just short-term improved financial status . 
because it believes the move will further delay its Chapter 11 proceedings . 
But LTV , a steel , aerospace and energy concern , said it is confident that the Supreme Court will uphold the lower-court decisions and said it expects to continue discussions with the agency about a settlement while the case is being reviewed . 
while the case is being reviewed . 
, and then came a taped plea for donations from former President Reagan -- followed by the silent print telling viewers where to call . 
, and then came a taped plea for donations from former President Reagan -- followed by the silent print telling viewers where to call . 
But the strategy can backfire ; if the ads appear too self-serving , the companies may end up looking like rank opportunists instead of good Samaritans . 
. 
, and we had this airtime on Monday Night Football , '' explains Brooke Mitzel , a Nissan advertising creative manager . 
. 
But as advertisers latch onto disasters with increasing frequency , they risk hurting themselves as much as helping the cause . 
. 
, and if a manufacturer is clearly trying to get something out of it ... if it 's too transparent ... then consumers will see through that , '' warns John Philip Jones , chairman of the advertising department at the Newhouse School of Public Communications at Syracuse University . 
... if it 's too transparent ... then consumers will see through that , '' warns John Philip Jones , chairman of the advertising department at the Newhouse School of Public Communications at Syracuse University . 
... then consumers will see through that , '' warns John Philip Jones , chairman of the advertising department at the Newhouse School of Public Communications at Syracuse University . 
because companies can step across the line and go too far , be too pushy , '' agrees Gary Stibel , a principal with New England Consulting Group , Westport , Conn . 
Still , he says that only a few of the quake-related campaigns have been `` tasteless '' and that `` the majority have been truly beneficial to the people who need the help . 
'' and that `` the majority have been truly beneficial to the people who need the help . 
: The donations will come out of the chain 's national advertising fund , which is financed by the franchisees . 
While the campaign was Mr. Gibbons 's idea , however , he wo n't be paying for it : The donations will come out of the chain 's national advertising fund , which is financed by the franchisees . 
And by basing donations on BK Doubles , a new double-hamburger line the fast-food chain is trying to push , Burger King works a sales pitch into its public-service message . 
Toyota 's upscale Lexus division , a sponsor of the World Series , also put in a plug for Red Cross donations in a World Series game it sponsored . 
And New York Life made a plea for Red Cross donations in newspaper ads in the San Francisco area , latching onto the coattails of the Red Cross 's impeccable reputation : `` The Red Cross has been helping people for 125 years . 
But she has no problem with that , she says : `` In the meanwhile , they 're helping us . '' 
But she has no problem with that , she says : `` In the meanwhile , they 're helping us . '' 
, but it has amassed $ 46.6 million since it first launched its hurricane relief effort Sept. 23 . 
since it first launched its hurricane relief effort Sept. 23 . 
The account had previously been handled by Saatchi & Saatchi Wegener , New York . 
. 
even if it did not have good programs for dealing with them . 
, although actual joblessness may be lower . 
and public services -- the court system , schools , mail service , telephone network and the highways -- are in disgraceful condition . 
The left also is critical of the style of the Socialist government -- a remarkable parallel to the situation in Britain . 
and the official jobless rate has been pushed below 17 % from 21 % . 
Mr. Gonzalez also has split with the left in reaffirming Spain 's NATO commitment and in renewing a defense treaty with the U.S. . 
Mr. Gonzalez is not quite a closet supply-side revolutionary , however . 
; indeed he combined them with increases in indirect taxes . 
Yet the best the far-left could do was not enough to deter the biggest voting bloc -- nearly 40 % -- from endorsing the direction Spain is taking . 
, thus making funds available for public services starved of money for six years . 
. 
, lest the conservatives ask them to vote for bullets instead of bandages . 
, and that announcing an end to the liberals ' cease-fire will produce mainly their concern over the Contras ' military activities in northern Nicaragua . 
The biotechnology concern said Spanish authorities must still clear the price for the treatment , but that it expects to receive such approval by year end . 
, but that it expects to receive such approval by year end . 
, and the expected publication of the proposal in the Federal Register today is the first official step toward creating final regulations . 
But banks may prefer using a profile that targets selected transactions , rather than a blanket reporting requirement . 
But wire transfers from a standing account -- including those bigger than $ 10,000 -- are n't reported . 
But some holders of the Western Union notes expect the company to propose a more-attractive debt swap that will give them a substantial equity stake in the company . 
as its telex business has faltered in the face of competition from facsimile machines and as other business ventures have gone awry . 
and as other business ventures have gone awry . 
as its telex business has faltered in the face of competition from facsimile machines and as other business ventures have gone awry . 
when reset provisions allowed their interest rate to be raised to 19.25 % last June . 
, and a company spokesman said it fully intends to meet the payments . 
But Western Union has said it must lower the interest rate on its debt to regain full financial health . 
, while the insurance index fell 3.56 to 528.56 , and the `` other finance '' index dropped 3.27 to 529.32 . 
, and the `` other finance '' index dropped 3.27 to 529.32 . 
Meanwhile , the index of the 100 biggest non-financial stocks , the Nasdaq 100 , gained 0.47 to 438.15 . 
so they can deduct their losses from this year 's income , are also getting out , Mr. Mills said . 
Tax-loss sellers , those investors who sell loss-making stocks so they can deduct their losses from this year 's income , are also getting out , Mr. Mills said . 
, and the ones that have been the worst are getting clobbered , '' Mr. Mills said . 
, because things have been so volatile , '' said William Sulya , head of OTC trading at A.G. Edwards & Sons in St. Louis . 
after agreeing in principle to be acquired by a unit of Ratners Group for $ 50 a share . 
after it said it is in talks with a possible acquirer . 
as its American depository receipts gained 1\/4 to 11 7\/8 on volume of 1.2 million shares and Daimler-Benz joined the list of companies interested in the British car maker . 
and Daimler-Benz joined the list of companies interested in the British car maker . 
Meanwhile , General Motors and Ford Motor continue their pursuit of the company . 
, and GM has received U.S. regulatory clearance to buy 15 % . 
after earning $ 9.2 million a year before . 
after announcing a shakeup that will change senior management and reorganize the bank 's mortgage business as a separate unit . 
The bank also said it will establish a loan-loss reserve of $ 2.5 million to $ 4 million against a construction loan that is in default . 
. 
and that its board will review whether to continue soliciting bids . 
. 
and , then , propel it into a deadly state . '' 
. 
But if the genes are damaged -- perhaps by radiation , a chemical or through a chance accident in cell division -- their growth-suppressing proteins no longer work , and cells normally under control turn malignant . 
. 
, and cells normally under control turn malignant . 
, but researchers have found them in normal as well as in cancerous cells , suggesting that oncogenes do n't cause cancer by themselves . 
only after the tumor-suppressor gene has been damaged . 
, so for cancer to arise , both copies must be impaired . 
because he need only lose the other copy for a cancer to develop . 
. 
when he was only two months old -- after his mother had suffered the same fate when she was a baby . 
-- after his mother had suffered the same fate when she was a baby . 
when she was a baby . 
and , therefore , faced no more risk than other children of developing the rare cancer . 
, but I am convinced this basic research will begin showing results there soon . '' 
Then last spring , researchers reported finding a gene called p53 which , if impaired , turns healthy colon cells cancerous . 
. 
, perhaps explaining , finally , why some cancers seem to haunt certain families . 
when the second , normal copy also was damaged . 
But there was no way to prove Dr. Knudson 's `` two-hit '' theory . 
, but under a microscope they could see the 23 pairs of chromosomes in the cells that contain the genes . 
But he did n't know which gene or genes had disappeared . 
Then , a scientific team led by molecular geneticist Webster Cavenee , then at the University of Utah , found the answer . 
But in Baltimore , Dr. Vogelstein , a young molecular biologist at Johns Hopkins Medical School , believed Dr. Knudson was right , and set out to repeat the Cavenee experiment in cells from other cancers . 
Dr. Vogelstein next turned his attention to colon cancer , the second biggest cancer killer in the U.S. after lung cancer . 
, because it often seems to develop in stages . 
-- progressing from less severe to deadly -- as though a cascade of genetic damage might be occurring . 
. 
. 
If both copies of a second gene were then deleted , the polyps would progress to malignancy . 
But Dr. Vogelstein had yet to nail the identity of the gene that , if damaged , flipped a colon cell into full-blown malignancy . 
. 
. 
But Mr. Levine had said the p53 gene caused cancer by promoting growth , whereas the Johns Hopkins scientists were looking for a gene that suppressed growth . 
, whereas the Johns Hopkins scientists were looking for a gene that suppressed growth . 
; it turned out that in Mr. Levine 's cancer studies , he had unknowingly been observing a damaged form of p53 -- a cancer-suppressing gene . 
. 
. 
There also are reports from several labs , as yet unpublished , of missing p53 genes in tissue taken from kidney , brain and skin cancers . 
Recently , he and others reported that the retinoblastoma suppressor gene may also be involved in some lung cancers , as well as several other more common cancers , too . 
, though no one has come close to doing that so far . 
But now at least there 's a glimmer of hope for the stock . 
. 
, nor will it say much of anything else . 
But at least Burger King has signed on , and says that by year end it wo n't be using any shell eggs . 
So there is reason to believe that Michael 's hopes for a bacteria-free , long-shelf-life egg were n't all hype . 
Still , caution is advisable . 
But Burger King operators independently confirm using Michael 's product . 
, and Marriott officials could n't be reached for comment . 
but -LCB- because -RCB- the credibility gap is certainly not closing , '' says L. Craig Carver of Dain Bosworth . 
but -LCB- because -RCB- the credibility gap is certainly not closing , '' says L. Craig Carver of Dain Bosworth . 
A spokesman said later that Mr. Olson was being `` conservative '' in his estimate . 
But the spokesman added that while Michael will earn less than last year 's $ 1.20 a share , it thinks Street estimates of $ 1 or so are low . -RRB- 
. -RRB- 
Mr. Carver , however , believes the company 's egg product wo n't help the bottom line in the short run , even though it `` makes sense -- it 's more convenient '' and justifies its price , which is higher than shell eggs , because of health and sanitation concerns . 
, even though it `` makes sense -- it 's more convenient '' and justifies its price , which is higher than shell eggs , because of health and sanitation concerns . 
Michael , which also processes potatoes , still relies on spuds for about a fourth of its sales and nearly half its pretax profit . 
But dry growing conditions in the Red River Valley of Minnesota and North Dakota are pushing spot prices of potatoes beyond what Michael contracted to pay last spring . 
Still , analysts believe that profit margins in the potato business will be down again this year . 
-- and his ambitions do n't end there . 
But the transaction is just Mr. Peladeau 's latest step in a larger design : to build Quebecor through acquisitions into an integrated paper , publishing and printing concern with a reach throughout North America . 
, while Mr. Peladeau 's former employees are expanding across Canada . 
when the La Presse strike ended . 
Still , Mr. Peladeau stuck with the venture . 
Quebecor also publishes a second tabloid in Montreal , the struggling 18-month-old Montreal Daily News ; dailies in Quebec City and Winnipeg , Manitoba ; and dozens of weeklies covering most of Quebec . 
After a recent merger , it is also the only province-wide distributor of magazines and newspapers in Quebec . 
Finally , with Maxwell Communication , the company controls 54 % of Donohue Inc. , a Quebec City pulp and paper concern . 
, but he says it most likely will use debt . 
Separately , the commission intervened in a Connecticut state judge 's age-bias suit in federal court in New Haven . 
because it deprives the state of experienced judges still capable of serving on the bench . 
. 
The suit 's impact on New York may be narrow , however . 
, and the federal age-discrimination law does n't apply to elected officials , said James L. Lee , regional attorney for the EEOC in New York . 
, but then can be appointed to two-year terms until they reach 76 . 
until they reach 76 . 
But she said the state currently has 35 appointed judges who are over 70 . 
In Connecticut , however , most state judges are appointed by the governor and approved by the state legislature . 
. 
once the units are dissolved and their responsibilities transferred to U.S. attorneys ' offices . 
and their responsibilities transferred to U.S. attorneys ' offices . 
partly because the lawyers were troubled by the proposed reorganization , says Laura A. Brevetti , who left the strike force to join Morrison Cohen Singer & Weinstein , a New York law firm . 
But Mr. Runkel contends there has been no exodus of strike-force lawyers . 
and 21 have been hired since Mr. Thornburgh announced his plan . 
since Mr. Thornburgh announced his plan . 
if an proposed omnibus crime bill is passed . 
because her skirt stopped three inches above her knees . 
, but when she started to approach the bench , she was stopped by Judge Hancock . 
. 
, who in turn are countersuing Warner for trying to interfere in Sony 's acquisition of Columbia Pictures Entertainment Inc. and Guber Peters Entertainment Co. in two transactions valued at over $ 5 billion . 
, when a judge is expected to rule on Warner 's request for an injunction that would block the two producers from taking over the management of Columbia . 
when the producers told them that getting out of the contract would be no problem because of a previous oral agreement . 
because `` it was n't relevant once Guber and Peters told them Warner would let them terminate it at any time . '' 
once Guber and Peters told them Warner would let them terminate it at any time . '' 
but who were n't part of the negotiations between Sony and the duo . 
Warner executives also filed new sworn affidavits denying claims by Messrs. Guber and Peters that the two sides had an oral agreement that enabled the producers to terminate their contract with Warner should the opportunity to run a major studio come up . 
But Mr. Smith said Sony intends to prove that the oral agreement did in fact exist , and that even the existing written contract does n't preclude the producers from taking executive posts at another studio . 
But Mr. Smith said Sony intends to prove that the oral agreement did in fact exist , and that even the existing written contract does n't preclude the producers from taking executive posts at another studio . 
, and that even the existing written contract does n't preclude the producers from taking executive posts at another studio . 
while still fulfilling their contract to produce movies for Warner . 
Warner , which is in the process of being acquired by New York-based Time Warner Inc. , also said it paid the two producers a fixed annual salary of $ 3 million . 
, but Wall Street 's attention was focused on the picket line , not the bottom line . 
In fact , the earnings report unfolded as representatives of the world 's No. 1 jet maker and the striking Machinists union came back to the negotiating table for their first meeting in two weeks . 
as representatives of the world 's No. 1 jet maker and the striking Machinists union came back to the negotiating table for their first meeting in two weeks . 
until a new settlement proposal emerges or the talks break off again . 
or the talks break off again . 
as the company capitalized on the ravenous global demand for commercial airliners . 
. 
The investment community , however , strongly believes that the strike will be settled before there is any lasting effect on either Boeing or its work force . 
before there is any lasting effect on either Boeing or its work force . 
. 
if it is n't able to deliver any more planes this year , those dollars actually would just be deferred until 1990 . 
And the company is certain to get out some aircraft with just supervisors and other non-striking employees on hand . 
. 
and the strike was launched with the graveyard shift of Oct. 4 , Boeing had been counting on turning 96 aircraft out the door in the present period . 
`` But it would just mean a great first and second quarter next year . '' 
But the strike has n't gone on long enough for Boeing to lose business in any real sense . '' 
when , in Mr. Smith 's words , `` most companies would have unraveled '' by now . 
Still , Boeing went through its normal verbal gymnastics and played up the downside . 
For instance , he noted that spending on Pentagon programs is shrinking , and Boeing is either the prime contractor or a major supplier on many important military projects , including the B-2 Stealth bomber , the V-22 Osprey tilt-rotor aircraft and the Air Force 's next-generation tactical fighter . 
, and Boeing is either the prime contractor or a major supplier on many important military projects , including the B-2 Stealth bomber , the V-22 Osprey tilt-rotor aircraft and the Air Force 's next-generation tactical fighter . 
Moreover , Mr. Shrontz added , production-rate increases that have been implemented on the 737 , 747 , 757 and 767 programs have resulted in `` serious work force skill-dilution problems . '' 
And , of course , there 's the unsteady labor situation . 
Also , a contract with the United Auto Workers at the company 's helicopter plant in Philadelphia expired Oct. 15 . 
The union , though , has called the offer `` insulting . '' 
while negotiating contracts to replace the aluminum skins on the KC-135 tanker aircraft . 
, and it 's going to be nasty , '' said one observer , who asked not to be named . 
But last week Gerald Maier , president and chief executive officer of TransCanada , said the company `` intends to be a party to any transportation system that goes up there '' and that it would consider joint ventures with other players to ensure it has a role . 
'' and that it would consider joint ventures with other players to ensure it has a role . 
before Canadian regulators give any project the final go-ahead . 
if gas prices reach US$ 3.25 a thousand cubic feet by 1995 , in current dollars , up from a current spot price of about US$ 1.50 . 
U.S. gas buyers must also decide whether they want to enter firm contracts for Mackenzie delta gas or develop Alaskan reserves in the Prudhoe Bay area first , a project that has been on hold for more than a decade . 
But Foothills said it plans to seek regulatory approval to build an alternative line , the Alaska Natural Gas Transportation System further north toward Alaska . 
. 
It 's also likely that regulators will try to forge some kind of consensus between the would-be pipeline builders before undertaking any hearings into rival projects . 
before undertaking any hearings into rival projects . 
Instead , Richard Haskayne , president and chief executive of Interprovincial 's Calgary-based parent , Interhome Energy Inc. , said the company would prefer to work with other `` interested parties '' on a joint proposal . 
. 
Few petitions , however , have actually delayed or scuttled mergers . 
but said it would cooperate with regulatory authorities . 
. 
And plans to raise another $ 20 million through changes to an insurance policy have hit a snag , the source said . 
However , since Eastern first filed for Chapter 11 protection March 9 , it has consistently promised to pay creditors 100 cents on the dollar . 
. 
. 
and that the two sides were still negotiating . 
, and the two sides had to begin negotiating again . 
a week after Paribas announced that it was preparing to bid for 66.7 % control of Navigation Mixte . 
The Allianz statement also reinforced the belief that the takeover battle could be a long one . 
Deutsche Bank , Dresdner Bank and Commerzbank all also have expressed eagerness to expand in France before 1992 . 
, until the Socialists returned to government last year and canceled plans to privatize the large French bank . 
, though Deutsche Bank would be able to pay a good price . '' 
. 
, and Navigation Mixte moved up 108 francs -LRB- $ 17.19 -RRB- to close at 1,908 francs in heavy trading . 
Allianz also holds a 50 % stake in Navigation Mixte 's insurance subsidiary , one of France 's largest insurance groups , which it bought for about 6.5 billion francs just before Paribas launched its bid . 
just before Paribas launched its bid . 
Allianz also suggested , without saying so directly , that it regrets that Paribas is n't bidding for all of Navigation Mixte 's shares . 
. 
if they tendered to Paribas . 
, as long as it has French regulatory officials ' approval . 
Alternatively , it would offer to swap three Paribas shares for one Navigation Mixte share . 
, and the acquisition of the additional 48 % would cost it about 11 billion francs under its current bid . 
before the bid expires . 
since it disclosed early this year that its earnings reports for 1988 were n't accurate . 
Mercury also is shrinking itself , part of its plan to change its emphasis from buying mortgage loans from mortgage brokers to making loans directly . 
Mr. Sugarman has in turn contended that the other major shareholder group -- whose interests are represented by three other directors connected to trusts in the name of the children of the company 's founder , James Patterson -- has ties to a competing fast food chain , Wendy 's International Inc . 
, but she declined , citing a longstanding policy of refusing advertising work . 
The agency then turned to a former backup singer for Ms. Midler who appeared in the ad and crooned what was generally considered a more than credible imitation of Ms. Midler 's 1973 hit song `` Do You Wanna Dance . '' 
. '' 
. 
Last year 's appeals court decision , for instance , spawned several suits , reportedly including a recent action by the heirs of singer Bobby Darin against McDonald 's Corp. over its `` Mac Tonight '' TV commercials , a rough parody of Mr. Darin 's `` Mack the Knife '' trademark . 
because the same court had dismissed a similar case in 1970 involving singer Nancy Sinatra and a tire ad -- also a Young & Rubicam product . 
but that Bette Midler is . 
Nonetheless , Mr. Kurnit said that the latest decisions are having a chilling effect . 
In addition , the acquisition includes production assets of Invercon Papermils , a maker of household tissue products for the U.K. and Ireland . 
. 
But others reject the view , and forecast the dollar will continue to hold its current tight trading pattern . 
. 
since polling began 50 years ago . 
Comments by John Major , who has succeeded Mr. Lawson , also failed to damp market concern , despite his pledge to maintain relatively high British interest rates . 
if Britain 's government continues to appear unstable . 
One U.S. trader , however , dismissed sterling doomsayers while acknowledging there is little immediate upside potential for the U.K. unit . 
while acknowledging there is little immediate upside potential for the U.K. unit . 
, but we may be painting a gloomier picture than we should , '' he said . 
'' before recovering its losses . 
Dealers also note that the general lack of enthusiasm for the yen has helped bolster the U.S. dollar . 
while Monogram provides `` operational and marketing support '' and actually owns the accounts . 
. 
Krenz , however , vowed to preserve the Communist Party 's hold on political power and said East Germans should n't destabilize the nation with unrealistic demands . 
. 
He also received 20-year sentences for each of the 24 passengers injured . 
. 
even after an international treaty calling for their destruction is signed . 
as the White House urged both sides to honor the truce . 
Separately , the U.S. Embassy has filed three protests in as many days with China 's government , alleging harassment of diplomats and their families , an embassy source said . 
. 
as opinion polls showed the prime minister 's popularity had hit a record low following the resignation last Thursday of Chancellor of the Exchequer Lawson . 
They also established an office to control government and party finances . 
The company also cited some success in damping cost increases and said it wants to return to profitability in 1990 . 
because it appeared to be unsolicited , could spark a period of industry consolidation . 
, while Merrill Lynch said it was halting such trading entirely . 
Also , the Big Board met with angry stock specialists . 
if the actual maker is n't known . 
, but Wall Street 's attention was focused on the continued strike at the aircraft maker . 
, although annual growth should return to the traditional figure of about 7 % thereafter . 
, although annual growth should return to the traditional figure of about 7 % thereafter . 
He also mentioned increased capital investment by Pacific Bell for network improvements . 
Alternatively , a separate engine plant may be built as part of GM 's planned tie-up with the British luxury car maker , the sources said . 
. 
although revenue rose 30 % to more than $ 8.3 million from $ 6.4 million a year earlier . 
The company yesterday also said it was scrapping one of its major new products , a 760-megabyte drive , which , while technically proficient , did n't hold much promise of generating substantial orders because financing problems caused a nine-month delay in getting the product to market . 
because financing problems caused a nine-month delay in getting the product to market . 
because financing problems caused a nine-month delay in getting the product to market . 
The approval also ends any hope that Banque Nationale de Paris , another state-sector bank , might have had about taking Credit Lyonnais 's place in the accord . 
and will also represent the first time that its voting shares have been held by a party other than the government . 
But Fujitsu Ltd. has taken that practice to a new extreme . 
because it wanted a foot in the door of a potentially lucrative market . 
because we want experience in the field , '' the Fujitsu spokeswoman said . 
, so in the long term it will be profitable . 
, but such a large company would have been better off showing a little more discretion . '' 
Indeed , Fujitsu officials admitted they may have been a little overzealous . 
so this kind of thing does n't happen in the future . 
Specifically , Fujitsu won the right to design the specifications for a computerized system that will show water lines throughout the city . 
so it would be compatible with other makers ' equipment . 
But industry officials expressed concern that the initial project might give Fujitsu an edge in winning more lucrative contracts later . 
, and many companies expect that field to provide substantial revenue . 
But the Japanese practice of deep discounting often is cited by Americans as a classic barrier to entry in Japan 's market . 
The West German retailing group also said that the results of the first three quarters suggest it will meet its profit goal for the year . 
, while income at the mail-order and tourism units is likely to fall slightly from 1988 , the company said . 
, and officials at Georgia Pacific declined to comment . 
Analysts , however , were surprised because the tender offer appeared unsolicited . 
because the tender offer appeared unsolicited . 
, and analysts described the offer , representing a 36 % premium over Nekoosa 's market price , as fair . 
But industry observers still questioned whether Georgia Pacific will ultimately prevail . 
But industry observers still questioned whether Georgia Pacific will ultimately prevail . 
. 
By contrast , Value Line said Georgia-Pacific `` is in a comparatively good position to deal with weakening paper markets , '' because its production is concentrated not in the Northwest but in the South , where it should be able to avoid some of the cost pressures from rising wood-chip prices . 
, '' because its production is concentrated not in the Northwest but in the South , where it should be able to avoid some of the cost pressures from rising wood-chip prices . 
Also , it is n't exposed to the weakening newsprint business , and is strong in the less-cyclical tissue business . 
That acquisition , which also included the assumption of $ 135 million in debt , was designed to allow Georgia-Pacific to capitalize on the strong demand for softwood pulp , as well as reduce its exposure to the housing market . 
Analog also said that a one million share buy-back program announced in March is substantially complete . 
if called on . 
, which in turn has its own air force . 
, but Mr. Lehman seems to be part of the problem rather than part of the answer . 
because he could n't get his 1,000-ship Navy ? 
, but I can see him figuring prominently in his own article . 
before Mr. Corr signed on . 
The airline also named Mickey Foret as president . 
But Mr. Corr 's tenure was shorter than most . 
largely because he was credited with returning Trans World Airlines Inc. to profitability while he was its president from 1986 to 1988 . 
while he was its president from 1986 to 1988 . 
. 
But Mr. Corr , a stunt pilot in his spare time , was understood to be frustrated by what he regarded as limited freedom under Mr. Lorenzo . 
. 
One source familiar with the airline said , however , that Mr. Corr was n't informed in advance during the summer when Mr. Lorenzo began discussions with potential buyers . 
Mr. Bakes previously had a turn at running Continental . 
when it paid $ 155 million to purchase Wilson last year . 
Otherwise , actual profit is compared with the 300-day estimate . 
because Sidhpur has a near-monopoly on the world 's supply of flea seed , also known as flea wort or , in Western parlance , psyllium : a tiny , tasteless , obscure seed that , according to early research , may reduce cholesterol levels in the blood . 
. 
. 
. '' 
But they have no desire to eat a bowl of psyllium each morning , and , perhaps , little need : lean , frugal vegetarians , the farmers are innocents in the clogged , treacherous world of cholesterol . 
'' Folk doctors also prescribe it for kidney , bladder and urethra problems , duodenal ulcers and hemorrhoids . Some apply it to gouty joints . 
But some time ago , researchers discovered that soluble fibers also lower cholesterol levels in the blood . 
But some time ago , researchers discovered that soluble fibers also lower cholesterol levels in the blood . 
It also ordered P&G to produce more studies to buttress its claims that Metamucil can lower cholesterol . 
But the agency has n't yanked psyllium off store shelves . 
. 
But the news of the boom has yet to trickle down to the farmers . 
, and with psyllium prices currently languishing in the wake of a bumper crop , they think of the seed as a marginal crop , something to grow between summer wheat crops . 
and the crop is ruined . '' 
But there 's a catch . 
, but their quality ca n't compare to that of Indian psyllium . 
But no one has made a serious effort to transplant the crop . 
So when next year 's psyllium crop is harvested in March , it may be smaller than the 16,000 metric tons of the past few years -- right at the crest of the psyllium boom . 
. 
And the world could experience its first psyllium shortage . 
But then they wake up to a nightmare . 
But then they wake up to a nightmare . 
if a covered employee files a major claim , they complain . 
after one of its three workers developed a herniated disk . 
, and she fears she wo n't find another job with a benefit plan covering her ailment . 
if claims are filed , but often ca n't get coverage at all if a worker is termed medically uninsurable . 
if a worker is termed medically uninsurable . 
and let them pay their own bills . '' 
. 
if no one is sick , but it 's a roll of the dice , '' says Rosemary Heinhold of the Small Business Service Bureau , a group representing 35,000 small businesses nationwide . 
, but it 's a roll of the dice , '' says Rosemary Heinhold of the Small Business Service Bureau , a group representing 35,000 small businesses nationwide . 
, and rates go up 40 % to 60 % . 
In addition , the group says some of its member companies have been denied insurance because individual workers had medical problems that ranged from a mild cardiac condition to psychological counseling after a divorce , hemorrhoids and overweight . 
because individual workers had medical problems that ranged from a mild cardiac condition to psychological counseling after a divorce , hemorrhoids and overweight . 
But it says that rapid rate increases are directly tied to the soaring cost of health care . 
because their competitors do . 
But the general practice makes it more difficult to combine small groups of people into larger groups , thus spreading the risk over a larger base of premiums . 
, thus spreading the risk over a larger base of premiums . 
when that might destroy it in the marketplace . '' 
But small-business lobbyists say they support the idea , included in the Kennedy-Waxman bill , of new laws or regulations requiring greater use of community rating , which pegs rates to the use of health care by a community or other large group , and is designed to prevent insurance companies from taking only low-risk small companies as clients . 
But first on the list of priorities , says the National Federation of Independent Business , is to prohibit state laws requiring the inclusion of specialty items , such as psychiatric care , in basic health plans . 
; now there are 400 , '' says Carolyn Miller , an NFIB lobbyist . 
The insurance-industry association also strongly disagrees with the proposed community rating , which `` does n't save one dollar , '' argues James Dorsch , HIAA 's Washington counsel . 
But to Ms. Allen , the employee whose back problem triggered a huge insurance-rate increase , the issue was simple . 
, '' she asked , `` when it 's so expensive that it becomes impossible to keep after only one major claim ? 
, but the ministry said the latest rise is slower than gains in September and August . 
Previously , an affiliate of Unicorp Canada disclosed a stake of less than 5 % in Nashua , according to Daniel M. Junius , Nashua 's treasurer . 
But the company has had weak results so far this year , with earnings declining 43 % to $ 13.7 million , or $ 1.43 a share , on a 4 % decline in revenue to $ 713.5 million through the first nine months of the year . 
after the market closed . 
In addition , the company 's board authorized the purchase of up to an additional one million shares . 
because there 's no similarity between its -LCB- four -RCB- businesses . '' 
, '' the company nonetheless is attractive as a `` classic breakup candidate because there 's no similarity between its -LCB- four -RCB- businesses . '' 
because there 's no similarity between its -LCB- four -RCB- businesses . '' 
Previously , the July figure was estimated at a deficit of 613 million francs . 
and that it expects to reach a definitive agreement by the end of the week . 
But in the stock and real-estate markets , activity remains spotty even though prices have regained much of their lost ground . 
even though prices have regained much of their lost ground . 
But to Hong Kong , China is n't purely business . 
It is also the sovereign power that , come 1997 , will take over this British colony . 
now that those same leaders have fallen back on Marxist dogma and brute force to crush their nation 's democracy movement . 
since the sovereignty issue first arose in the early 1980s . 
, and few are prepared to predict its ultimate impact . 
But with local investors shaken by China 's political and economic turmoil , she says , a genuine recovery may not arrive until Hong Kong can prove itself secure under Chinese sovereignty . 
until Hong Kong can prove itself secure under Chinese sovereignty . 
. 
. 
when the interviews took place two years ago . 
. 
unless the economy stages a more convincing rally . 
`` But clearly we 're entering a difficult period . '' 
But if the Japanese return in force , their financial might could compensate to some extent for local investors ' waning commitment . 
. 
Conversely , strong consumer spending in the U.S. two years ago helped propel the local economy at more than twice its current rate . 
Indeed , a few economists maintain that global forces will continue to govern Hong Kong 's economic rhythm . 
. 
But economic arguments , however solid , wo n't necessarily impress Hong Kong 's 5.7 million people . 
since the Communist Party took power in 1949 . 
As a result , many of those now planning to leave Hong Kong ca n't easily be swayed by momentary improvements in the colony 's political and economic climate . 
. 
, '' says Anthong Wong , an economist with Hang Seng Bank . 
that also happens to include its most productive members , economic growth is bound to be affected , '' says Anthong Wong , an economist with Hang Seng Bank . 
, further roiling the stock market , trading executives say . 
. 
Consequently , abrupt swings in the stock market are not likely to disappear anytime soon , they say . 
In fact , without Wall Street firms trading for their own accounts , the stock-index arbitrage trading opportunities for the big funds may be all the more abundant . 
as pension funds and other institutional investors have sought a low-cost way to match the performance of the stock market as a whole . 
Wells Fargo Investment Advisers , for example , managed $ 25 billion in stock investments tracking the S&P 500 at the end of June , according to Standard & Poor 's Corp . 
, but that is a far less aggressive strategy than stock-index arbitrage , in which traders buy and sell big blocks of stocks with offsetting trades in stock-index futures to profit from price differences . 
And while signs of an economic slowdown , softer corporate earnings and troubles with takeover financing all have contributed to the stock market 's recent weakness , many investors rushed to blame program trading for aggravating market swings . 
. 
Phoenix Mutual Life Insurance Co. and Founders Asset Management Inc. also cut off brokerage firms that engage in program trading . 
. 
Indeed , Morgan Stanley 's president , Richard B. Fisher , said the firm is putting up money to form a group of regulators , investors and investment banks to find out if stock-index arbitrage artificially induces stock-market volatility . 
Separately , Mr. Cayne of Bear Stearns said his firm is working with regulators to balance margin requirements to `` enhance stabilization . '' 
when buying a security . 
, and the adjustments are often abrupt . 
, and the adjustments are often abrupt . 
But unequal trading rules allow the futures market to trade differently from stocks , which invites frequent bouts of stock-index arbitrage in the first place . 
, and you get programs about rape . 
. 
But tonight 's offering , `` Settle the Score '' -LRB- 9-11 p.m. EST , on NBC -RRB- , does n't even try . 
But it 's more like an illustration of what Ben Stein describes in his study of social attitudes in the TV industry : `` Fear of violence and animosity ... because of race or religion , fear and lack of comprehension about the politics of small-town people ... produce a powerful wave of dislike of small towns in the minds of TV writers and producers . '' 
But is exile in Hollywood enough ? 
, and she is tolerable only by virtue of having nothing in common with her kinfolk , a truly benighted pack of Southern Protestants whose grim existence consists mostly of growing peaches and repressing sex . 
. 
, and then left her to die in a cold-storage room . 
, because he knows in his heart that she enjoyed what happened in the cold-storage room , and has been indulging the same taste ever since in the fleshpots of Chicago . 
, because he knows in his heart that she enjoyed what happened in the cold-storage room , and has been indulging the same taste ever since in the fleshpots of Chicago . 
But in Mr. Sohmer 's Ozarks , he is but the tip of the patriarchal iceberg . 
, and you have a setting that does n't resemble small-town America , or even Hollywood 's nightmare of small-town America , so much as a paranoid feminist dystopia like Margaret Atwood 's `` The Handmaid 's Tale , '' itself soon to be -LRB- you guessed it -RRB- a Hollywood movie . 
when she 's seething with anger and fear , but we know from the outset that he 's not a member of the evil patriarchy . 
, but we know from the outset that he 's not a member of the evil patriarchy . 
, then I 'm not going to tell you . 
when everybody else hates her , then I 'm not going to tell you . 
, while he bullies Kate into a dance that consists of drooling on her while trying to break her ribs . 
while trying to break her ribs . 
Yet even these insulting caricatures are not as bad as the moral hypocrisy at the heart of `` Settle the Score . '' 
, but we were n't invited to enjoy the spectacle . 
In Mr. Sohmer 's film , by contrast , we are urged to share the perverse excitement of the rapist creeping up on his victim , as the camera ogles Kate in various stages of undress and lingers on the sight of her trussed-up body during frequent flashbacks to the rape . 
, as the camera ogles Kate in various stages of undress and lingers on the sight of her trussed-up body during frequent flashbacks to the rape . 
, and , after insisting on separate motel rooms , she knocks on his door to pour out her feelings about the rape -- wearing nothing but a mini-slip and a push-up bra . 
. 
after management recommended a suspension of dividend payments on both its common and preferred stock because Crossland may not meet the new government capital criteria effective Dec. 7 . 
because Crossland may not meet the new government capital criteria effective Dec. 7 . 
because , under the proposed guidelines , its $ 380 million of preferred stock does n't meet the `` core capital '' criteria outlined under the new Financial Institutions Reform , Recovery and Enforcement Act of 1989 . 
Additionally , Crossland reported a third-quarter loss of $ 175.5 million , or $ 13.44 a share , compared with net income of $ 27.1 million , or $ 1.16 a share , a year ago . 
and , consequently , to write down the asset value of some previous acquisitions . 
However , non-interest income rose to $ 23.5 million from $ 22 million . 
It also placed on CreditWatch for possible downgrade other securities , including the double-B-minus\/B rating of Crossland 's certificates of deposit and the single-B rating of its senior subordinated capital notes . 
and two soulful eyes on a boy 's brown face peer out from the page , pleadingly . 
, but he 's endangered all the same : His new sitcom on ABC needs a following to stay on the air . 
, and the producers of one new arrival are a bit desperate . 
So producers Alyce and Topper Carew spun their Rolodexes and gathered names of black opinion makers to mount a direct-mail campaign . 
But employing this kind of gut-wrenching plea to black consciousness makes it even more unusual . 
Still , Mr. Carew thinks he can reach a good chunk of the three million-plus black homes he needs by mailing to the almost 10,000 blacks who form what he calls `` the grapevine . '' 
, but you and I know it exists , '' says Mr. Carew , referring to the often uncannily small world of black professionals and community leaders . 
, but I 'm convinced that the grapevine is what 's happening . '' 
, but the mailing was sent without the network 's blessing . 
The letter , in fact , takes a jab at ABC for being a laggard in black programming . 
Meanwhile , as the Sunday evening show struggles to stay afloat against the tough competition of `` Murder , She Wrote , '' the grapevine idea is threatening to turn into a weed : The tactic apparently has inspired sample viewings , but accolades are slow in coming . 
: The tactic apparently has inspired sample viewings , but accolades are slow in coming . 
, but accolades are slow in coming . 
, he says , and this is one of them . 
. '' 
But with sales growth sluggish and other men 's stores putting on the heat , the venerable retailer can no longer afford such a smug attitude . 
So two weeks ago , thousands of Brooks Brothers charge customers -- customers conditioned to wait for twice-yearly clearance sales -- got a surprise : an invitation to come in and buy any one item for 25 % off . 
And the ad copy is cheeky : `` How can you be a Wall Street hot shot without at least one Brooks Brothers suit in your portfolio ? '' 
. 
. 
The rigid Ivy League customer , Brooks Brothers ' bread and butter , meanwhile is becoming extinct . 
Thus , Brooks Brothers has lost customers to stores that offer more variety such as Paul Stuart , Barneys New York and Louis , Boston . 
; by emphasizing `` value , '' it risks watering down its high-minded mystique . 
Fashion industry consultants also question whether the company can make significant strides in its women 's business , given that its customer base is less established and that conservative business dress for women is on the decline . 
and that conservative business dress for women is on the decline . 
Marks & Spencer is also considering opening stores across Europe sometime in the future . 
while keeping its `` traditional emphasis . '' 
The British parent is also streamlining : Brooks Brothers , which continues to make almost all of its merchandise , recently shut one of its two shirt plants in Paterson , N.J. , and has closed boys ' departments in all but 20 stores . 
Brooks Brothers is also remodeling its stores . 
, so that customers can `` walk up and touch them , '' Mr. Roberti says . 
. 
and we only sell one type of suit , '' Mr. Roberti says , referring to Brooks Brothers ' signature three-button `` sack suit , '' with a center-vented jacket and boxy fit . 
But it now offers more two-button versions and suits with a tapered fit . 
It also plans to add suits cut for athletic men with broader upper bodies . 
Ferro also said it would cancel the unused portion of a 1987 buy-back plan for administrative reasons . 
Mr. Price , 61 years old , also stepped down from the board of TVS Entertainment PLC , the British TV company that last year bought MTM , producer of such TV programs as `` Hill Street Blues '' and `` The Mary Tyler Moore Show . '' 
until a successor is named . 
, and Mr. Price could n't be reached on Friday . 
, '' but added that `` it is now time for a change ... . '' 
But TVS stunned industry analysts last month by disclosing that it expected MTM to post an operating loss for this year . 
In that announcement , TVS also said it was trimming production finance and hiring a new U.S. sales manager . 
Mr. Tinker later left to become chairman of National Broadcasting Co . 
Merieux previously said it would ensure its bid remained open pending a final decision by Canadian regulators on whether to approve the takeover . 
once it submits details of its proposed investments to federal regulators . 
Separately , the Ontario Supreme Court said it will postpone indefinitely a ruling on the lawsuit launched by the University of Toronto against Connaught in connection with the Merieux bid . 
The program , which runs through Jan. 4 , also offers low-rate financing in lieu of the cash rebate . 
after talks to end a feud between two major creditors failed and all three reorganization plans in the case ran into roadblocks . 
and all three reorganization plans in the case ran into roadblocks . 
, whose claim for $ 300 million in back taxes has priority in the case . 
. 
while it works out a plan to pay its debts . 
after hearing testimony later this week in the bitter dispute between Manufacturers Hanover Trust Co. and Minpeco S.A. , a minerals concern owned by the Peruvian governmemt . 
. 
But even that is disputed by Manufacturers Hanover which , in alliance with the IRS , contends that Minpeco has already collected more than its actual damages from other defendants in the silver-conspiracy case . 
Meanwhile , inside the courtroom , the judge said he would fine attorneys for the two creditors $ 50 every time they referred to each other with terms such as `` liar '' or `` slime . '' 
Neither plan is dead , however , and the judge could force creditors to accept some version of them after ruling on the Minpeco-Manufacturers Hanover dispute . 
, and the judge could force creditors to accept some version of them after ruling on the Minpeco-Manufacturers Hanover dispute . 
after ruling on the Minpeco-Manufacturers Hanover dispute . 
Meanwhile , settlement negotiations continue between Mr. Hunt and the IRS , which has already reached a tentative agreement with Nelson Bunker Hunt . 
after his assets are sold . 
, but the transaction is expected to close by year end , Pacific First said . 
; last Monday , the company had nearly 73 million shares outstanding . 
because the after-tax cost of the interest on the bonds is higher than the dividend yield on the common , a spokesman said . 
The offer , which Telerate 's two independent directors have rejected as inadequate , previously had been scheduled to expire at midnight Friday . 
since Dow Jones launched the offer on Sept. 26 , but it does n't change the terms and conditions of the offer except to extend its expiration date . 
, but it does n't change the terms and conditions of the offer except to extend its expiration date . 
except to extend its expiration date . 
, while Dow Jones based its projections of Telerate 's performance on a 12 % revenue growth forecast . 
Dow Jones shares also fell 50 cents to close at $ 36.125 in Big Board composite trading . 
, but those talks did n't result in any changes in the offer . 
, the movie also is being distributed on videocassettes , the suit alleges in seeking unspecified damages . 
Also named in the suit is Media Home Entertainment Inc. of Culver City , Calif. , its parent , Heron Communications Inc. , and Broadstar Television of Los Angeles , holders of the copyright on the movie . 
. 
and also depicts them as showing no remorse when a member is killed . 
when a member is killed . 
Mr. Miller , who has been a Coda director , also was named chief executive officer , succeeding Ted Eubank , who remains president and chief operating officer . 
The 57-year-old Mr. Gressette , who was also elected chairman and chief executive of all Scana subsidiaries , succeeds John A. Warren . 
. 
, and everyone wondered what in the world they were shooting at . 
, but you will just have to make your own decision about such sightings . 
, and greater beings than the editors of the National Enquirer have shown interest . 
. 
because I have seen one ... . '' 
But you know about campaign promises . 
Still , despite their efforts to convince the world that we are indeed alone , the visitors do seem to keep coming and , like the recent sightings , there 's often a detail or two that suggests they may actually be a little on the dumb side . 
and , like the recent sightings , there 's often a detail or two that suggests they may actually be a little on the dumb side . 
For instance , witnesses in Voronezh say the pinheaded behemoths and their robot friend , after strolling around the city park , left behind some rocks . 
. 
just after radioing its position to ground control in Sverdlovsk . 
until we wake up one morning to find they 've taken over `` The Today Show , '' the way they overwhelm an entire town in Jack Finney 's `` Invasion of the Body Snatchers '' -LRB- Fireside\/Simon & Schuster , 216 pages , $ 8.95 -RRB- . 
, and the alien creatures went away upset with the rude ways of human beings . 
when its merger is completed with Society Corp. of Cleveland , the bank said . 
. 
. 
Still , Akzo has n't yet found a way to achieve another goal : a large presence in the U.S. market for prescription drugs . 
But he said Akzo is considering `` alliances '' with American drug companies , although he would n't elaborate . 
, although he would n't elaborate . 
if , as many analysts expect , bulk chemical prices slump in Europe . 
For example , Akzo has only minor petrochemical operations , is small in plastics and does n't make fertilizers . 
Thus , while Akzo profited less than many rivals from the boom of recent years in petrochemicals and plastics , it has less to fear from the current slump . 
. 
The company is exposed to bulk chemicals , however . 
, Mr. Bergsma said . 
, he said , but the market does n't appear on the verge of a severe downturn . 
Akzo also makes products derived from salt , such as chlorine and caustic soda . 
But Akzo is still slimming down : It recently announced plans to eliminate about 1,700 fiber-related jobs in the Netherlands and West Germany . 
. 
, he said , and Akzo expects its Twaron business to become profitable in 1990 . 
Akzo also has spent heavily on acquisitions in paints , auto finishes and industrial coatings . 
In August , for example , it completed the $ 110 million acquisition of Reliance Universal Inc. , a U.S. maker of industrial coatings for wood , metals and plastics , from Tyler Corp . 
as it realizes cost savings and other benefits from its greater scale . 
Akzo also has small operations in diagnostic tests , generic drugs and veterinary products . 
and in particular slashing the top rate of income taxation to 40 % . 
But in the end his resignation as Chancellor of the Exchequer may be a good thing , especially if it works as he no doubt intends -- by forcing Prime Minister Thatcher and her counterparts elsewhere to confront the genuine intellectual issues involved . 
But in the end his resignation as Chancellor of the Exchequer may be a good thing , especially if it works as he no doubt intends -- by forcing Prime Minister Thatcher and her counterparts elsewhere to confront the genuine intellectual issues involved . 
, especially if it works as he no doubt intends -- by forcing Prime Minister Thatcher and her counterparts elsewhere to confront the genuine intellectual issues involved . 
So far as we can see only two persons are behaving with a dignity recognizing the seriousness of the issues : Mr. Lawson and Sir Alan Walters , the counterpoint of the Chancellor 's difficulties , who also resigned as personal adviser to Mrs. Thatcher . 
And there are the twin-deficit Keynesians , who predict\/advocate devaluations to balance trade flows . 
, but he wanted to regulate monetary policy by targeting exchange rates , indeed joining the European Monetary System . 
. 
As in the U.S. , it also produced a sudden burst in the demand for sterling , that is a surge in the sterling monetary aggregates , M-Whatever . 
, -LRB- though monetary aggregates also grew so rapidly monetarists issued egg-on-the-face warnings of inflation -RRB- . 
, -LRB- though monetary aggregates also grew so rapidly monetarists issued egg-on-the-face warnings of inflation -RRB- . 
But this devastated the U.S. manufacturing sector , laying the seeds of protectionism . 
. 
But more recently , the pound has been falling with high inflation , which has also seemed almost impervious to the high interest rates Mr. Lawson deployed to stop it . 
, which has also seemed almost impervious to the high interest rates Mr. Lawson deployed to stop it . 
So the British experience presents a genuine puzzle that reaches far beyond the shores of Albion . 
long before Mr. Lawson 's resignation , and offer some of the collection for the benefit of his successor and one-time deputy , John Major . 
We should also add Mr. Lawson 's own explanation , as we understand it . 
We should also concede that in the British experience the monetarist cause regains some of the credibility it lost in the U.S. experience . 
, though of course in the event Mr. Lawson resigned over whether to support a weak pound , not restrain a strong one . 
, but also led the chorus saying that Mr. Volcker was too tight when he let the dollar rise . 
when he let the dollar rise . 
In fixing rates the choice of initial parities is crucial , for example , and perhaps he picked the wrong pound-DM rate . 
, and perhaps he picked the wrong pound-DM rate . 
if they 'd fixed to another low-tax , deregulated , supply-side economy . 
, indeed , it is the definition of an open market operation to expand the money supply . 
Mr. Reynolds also notes that since British banks have no reserve requirements , high interest rates are less likely to curb inflation than to cause recession . 
. 
In the end , neither policy was followed , and instead of learning anything we are left with a mystery . 
, and instead of learning anything we are left with a mystery . 
In particular , `` shadowing '' a currency is anything but fixing ; it is an open announcement that the exchange rate target has no credibility . 
when strong voices are heard opposing the policy . 
So Mr. Lawson had to resign . 
In the end his move was sparked by remarks in excerpts from Sir Alan 's autobiography in The American Economist , a 10,000-circulation academic journal . 
But it was the underlying situation that became intolerable . 
And some of its top client-service executives , including Mr. Phillips , were promoted to the point they were saddled with administrative duties , with little time to see clients . 
But Mr. Phillips recently freed himself up to spend more time with clients by delegating much of his administrative work to a deputy . 
He also plans to get to know clients that Mr. Roman was closer to , such as Lever Brothers , American Express and Seagram . 
Mr. Phillips also hopes to finally implement a reorganization announced earlier this year but put on hold by the WPP takeover . 
and the office there has had a dismal new-business record for more than a year . 
And while last week the agency hired a top Chiat\/Day\/Mojo executive , Bill Hamilton , to try to bolster its work , `` Graham has to get the revenue of that New York office moving , '' says James Dougherty , an analyst with County NatWest Securities . 
, '' says James Dougherty , an analyst with County NatWest Securities . 
, although it is n't certain if that will be enough . 
... and Graham is obviously a long-term member of the Ogilvy Mafia , as we call it . '' 
, if not in style . 
, leaving him time for his interests outside the office . 
Mr. Roman , by contrast , seems rarely to cut loose at all , although he did appear at Ogilvy 's Halloween party Friday decked out in duck feet and a duck hat , costumed as a `` lame duck . '' 
, although he did appear at Ogilvy 's Halloween party Friday decked out in duck feet and a duck hat , costumed as a `` lame duck . '' 
But margins will be helped , too , by some other cost-saving steps . 
The fact that the agency will now be part of a U.K. company , under British accounting rules , will also make the profit picture look better . 
while the case is pending . 
. 
. '' 
In his letter , Mr. Finkelstein also referred to the recent San Francisco earthquake . 
, but looking at the whole fiscal year , we do n't see the effect as material , '' wrote Mr. Finkelstein . 
, and RJR expects to use another $ 2 billion from the pending , two-part sale of most of its Del Monte unit . 
That sale , however , could still fall through if financing problems develop . 
if financing problems develop . 
Thus , it remains crucial for RJR to obtain top dollar for its smaller assets like the candy brands . 
. 
U.S. , but RJR 's overall share of the roughly $ 5.1 billion market is less than 5 % . 
, when net was $ 235.5 million , or $ 2.07 a share . 
But because these claims are more difficult to evaluate and have been coming in more slowly , the company has no estimate of the impact of the earthquake on fourth-quarter results . 
. 
However , Aetna 's employee benefits division , which includes its group health insurance operations , posted a 34 % profit gain to $ 106 million . 
But the words that boomed over the loudspeakers bore messages of peace , unity , negotiation and discipline . 
and we will stand for peace tomorrow , '' said Walter Sisulu , the ANC 's former secretary general who , along with five of his colleagues , served 26 years in prison before being released two weeks ago . 
before being released two weeks ago . 
Meanwhile , the many organizations inside the country that back the ANC are taking the opportunity to regain their strength and mobilize their supporters even though the state of emergency , which has severely curtailed black opposition , remains in force . 
even though the state of emergency , which has severely curtailed black opposition , remains in force . 
and that Mr. de Klerk `` may yet earn a place among the peacemakers of our country '' if he chooses a `` path of genuine political settlement . '' 
'' if he chooses a `` path of genuine political settlement . '' 
Still , this does n't mean that either the government or the ANC is changing stripes -- or that either has moved significantly closer to the other . 
-- or that either has moved significantly closer to the other . 
, but it still keeps a tight grip in others . 
For instance , it releases Mr. Sisulu without conditions , yet his son , Zwelakhe , a newspaper editor , is restricted to his home much of the day and is n't allowed to work as a journalist . 
, yet his son , Zwelakhe , a newspaper editor , is restricted to his home much of the day and is n't allowed to work as a journalist . 
. 
Nevertheless , an ANC rally by any other name is still an ANC rally . 
: Release all political prisoners unconditionally ; lift all bans and restrictions on individuals and organizations ; remove all troops from the black townships ; end the state of emergency , and cease all political trials and political executions . 
, and cease all political trials and political executions . 
. 
. 
But now Westinghouse is enjoying a resurgence in demand for both steam and combustion turbines and may even join the growing legion of independent electric producers . 
And with its new venture with Japan 's Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. , announced last week , it is poised to penetrate growing markets overseas . 
, and Westinghouse believes it will ride a wave of demand stretching over the next six years . 
Westinghouse 's own role as a supplier also is changing . 
But last June 's annnouncement that Westinghouse would put up all of the $ 70 million to build a new 55-megawatt plant could herald a new age . 
, but we could become an independent producer depending on whether we 're the developer or just the supplier , '' says Theodore Stern , executive vice president of the company 's energy and utility systems group . 
Westinghouse also jointly will bid on projects with Misubishi , giving it an edge in developing Asian markets . 
In addition , the two companies will develop new steam turbine technology , such as the plants ordered by Florida Power , and even utilize each other 's plants at times to take advantage of currency fluctuations . 
, '' Mr. Stern contends . 
, we can also work jointly on some projects , and we 'll gain a lot of sourcing flexibility , '' Mr. Stern contends . 
, and we 'll gain a lot of sourcing flexibility , '' Mr. Stern contends . 
because the Justice Department earlier this year successfully challenged a proposed steam turbine joint venture with Asea Brown Boveri . 
and therefore do n't need government approval to construct new plants . 
Still , Westinghouse acknowledges that demand from independent producers could evaporate if prices for fuel such as natural gas or oil rise sharply or if utilities , which have been pressured by regulators to keep down rates , are suddenly freed to add significant generating capacity . 
if prices for fuel such as natural gas or oil rise sharply or if utilities , which have been pressured by regulators to keep down rates , are suddenly freed to add significant generating capacity . 
or if utilities , which have been pressured by regulators to keep down rates , are suddenly freed to add significant generating capacity . 
if prices for fuel such as natural gas or oil rise sharply or if utilities , which have been pressured by regulators to keep down rates , are suddenly freed to add significant generating capacity . 
. 
even though it has n't received an order for a domestic nuclear plant in a decade . 
. 
, but they certainly did some impressive things with baseballs . 
, but a trifle unfair otherwise . 
But Clark flied out to short right field and Mitchell 's drive to left was caught on the warning track by Rickey Henderson as 62,000 sets of lungs exhaled as one . 
and Mitchell 's drive to left was caught on the warning track by Rickey Henderson as 62,000 sets of lungs exhaled as one . 
as 62,000 sets of lungs exhaled as one . 
, and that 's what we did . 
. '' 
But if the A 's had n't won in four , they would have prevailed in five , or six , or seven . 
. 
and the worst win four of 10 . 
These A 's , however , got few grades as low as B on their 1989 report card . 
before stomping their cross-bay rivals . 
after his team had fallen in Game Three to a five-home-run barrage that tied a 61-year-old Series record . 
, and their nine home runs tied one . 
, and he contributed five hits plus a diving fielding play on a ground ball in Game Three that stopped a Giant rally while the issue still was in doubt . 
while the issue still was in doubt . 
Even with that power show , though , the Oakland Series ' star , certified by the Most Valuable Player award , was a pitcher , Dave Stewart . 
. 
, and I do n't care if I ever win a Cy Young , '' he said , in reference to baseball 's best-pitcher award . 
Indeed , the possibility of an A 's ring cycle , a\/k\/a a dynasty , was a major topic of post-game discussion Saturday , so much so that Sandy Alderson , the team 's general manager , felt obliged to dampen it . 
, which also was the first year of baseball player free agency . 
, but quite the opposite has occurred : Twelve different clubs have won titles in the 14 seasons since its advent . 
In fact , managers today are probably more aware of speed as a competitive variable than ever before . 
However , for many , managing speed does not come naturally . 
' and ` Do n't cut corners , ' ideas that seem to run counter to the concept of managing speed , '' says Dean Cassell , vice president for product integrity at Grumman Corp . 
`` But in the real world , you learn that speed and quality are not a trade-off . 
, so couriers can be on the road by 8:35 . 
, but the process is nevertheless critical to customer satisfaction . 
, but the process is nevertheless critical to customer satisfaction . 
But we did n't know just where it was until we completed our data gathering , '' Mr. Mortimer says . 
until we completed our data gathering , '' Mr. Mortimer says . 
And service levels have increased to the point where they 're consistently above 99 % . '' 
Then they identified snags in the process . '' 
The team then proposed modifications in their work process to management . 
, because the people building the product have taken on more responsibility for the quality of their own work . 
`` But instead of gathering their input piecemeal , we formed the team , which reached consensus on the proposal objectives and produced a statement of work to guide all the functions that were involved . '' 
, because the people who had the skills and perspective required to resolve them were part of the task team , '' Mr. Anton explains . 
And they prepare all their people to increase the speed and improve the quality of their own work . 
, but banning home taping would hurt consumers even more . 
But the disappointing sales of DAT machines here and abroad so far have not seemed to warrant the three years of legal wrangling that went into the agreement . 
, while copying for purposes of resale or profit is prohibited . 
The study also says that advent of new communications technologies makes `` an explicit congressional definition of the legal status of home copying more desirable in order to reduce legal and market uncertainties and to prevent de facto changes to copyright law through technology , '' and says that finding an `` appropriate balance of harms and benefits is a political decision , not a technical one . 
And in little more than a decade of being friendly -- and at the same time rocking the staid Swiss business community with some U.S.-style wheeling and dealing -- the 46-year-old Mr. Rey has grown from a modest banker to a billionaire . 
But approval is almost certain since Mr. Rey and a friendly Adia management are in control . 
since Mr. Rey and a friendly Adia management are in control . 
, '' says Mr. Rey during a recent morning of working at home , which he also likes . 
In short : Rey found companies with weak earnings but rich assets . '' 
However , the Swiss financial press in general , as well as many analysts , have had a hard time making up their minds about Mr. Rey and his un-Swiss ways . 
But such tactics were alien to Switzerland in 1976 , and still are n't common because of share restrictions that companies are allowed to maintain . 
as establishment pressure grew on this hostile move into the Swiss old boys ' network . 
Nevertheless , Mr. Rey has been very careful since then to make sure his moves are welcome . 
And he has worked to shed his raider image . 
But Mr. Rey brought about a merger in the next few years between the country 's major producers ; the increased efficiency has perked up the industry . 
But after restructuring under new management , the profits began rolling in . 
And with the recent acquisition of 30 % of Winterthur-based machinery manufacturer Gebrueder Sulzer AG , Mr. Rey has enjoyed the status of white knight . 
Meanwhile , as such strategic investments have mounted , the merchant-banking arm of Mr. Rey 's Omni Holding has been busily buying and selling dozens of companies , often after a financial or corporate restructuring . 
. 
, but analysts say it makes sense for Inspectorate-Adia to focus on its main businesses of product inspection and temporary help . 
, but it would n't estimate profit . 
Meanwhile , Boeing officials and representatives of the Machinists union met separately last night with a federal mediator in an attempt to break the month-old strike that has shut the aerospace giant 's assembly lines at a time when it has an $ 80 billion backlog of jetliner orders . 
and the machinists have responded that the offer is n't good enough . 
However , the resolve of some of the striking 57,000 machinists might be weakening . 
. 
In addition , Boeing said it also will reorganize all its work in Wichita into military and commercial divisions . 
In addition , Boeing said it also will reorganize all its work in Wichita into military and commercial divisions . 
Nor did it ease restrictions on exports to Poland and Hungary , according to U.S. officials who attended the talks . 
Some countries also have been pressing for special treatment for Hungary and Poland as they move toward more democratic rule , just as special treatment had been agreed on for China . 
. 
But U.S. officials said representatives at the meeting decided that this was `` a matter for further discussion at future meetings . '' 
, but a question of this scope deserves further discussion and study . '' 
The officials also said the meeting agreed to continue treating China as a special case , despite the recent repression of dissent there , but to offer no further concessions . 
, but that no specific decisions were taken on either matter . 
, and the future looks anything but encouraging . '' 
The company also took a write-off of $ 150 million to cover losses on some fixed-price defense contracts , as some new managers took a hard look at the prospects for that slow-growing business . 
, as some new managers took a hard look at the prospects for that slow-growing business . 
In addition , Unisys set up an unspecified reserve -- apparently $ 60 million to $ 70 million -- to cover the minimum amount it will have to pay the government because of its involvement in the defense-procurement scandal . 
Unisys also noted that it paid $ 78.8 million in taxes during the quarter , even though tax payments normally would be minimal in a quarter that produced such a big loss . 
, even though tax payments normally would be minimal in a quarter that produced such a big loss . 
In addition , Unisys said it reduced computer inventories a further $ 100 million during the quarter , leaving it within $ 100 million of its goal of a reduction of $ 500 million by the end of the year . 
Still , Unisys said its European business was weak during the quarter , a worrisome sign given that the company has relied on solid results overseas to overcome weakness in the U.S. over the past several quarters . 
The company also reported slower growth in another important business : systems that use the Unix operating system . 
if it were to continue , because Unisys is betting its business on the assumption that customers want to move away from using operating systems that run on only one manufacturer 's equipment and toward systems -- mainly Unix -- that work on almost anyone 's machines . 
, because Unisys is betting its business on the assumption that customers want to move away from using operating systems that run on only one manufacturer 's equipment and toward systems -- mainly Unix -- that work on almost anyone 's machines . 
In addition , Unisys must deal with its increasingly oppressive debt load . 
He also said that the price wars flaring up in parts of the computer industry will continue through next year . 
, and we 're confident that we have tremendous assets as a company . 
But we do n't minimize the challenges of the near term . '' 
But the company said Friday that it had losses of $ 673.3 million through the first nine months , compared with earnings a year earlier of $ 382.2 million , or $ 2.22 a share fully diluted , as revenue inched up 1.4 % to $ 7.13 billion from $ 7.03 billion . 
, as revenue inched up 1.4 % to $ 7.13 billion from $ 7.03 billion . 
And Unisys is expected to do little better than break even in the fourth quarter . 
So Steve Milunovich at First Boston said he is cutting his earnings estimate for next year to $ 2 a share from $ 3 . 
, but is it low enough ? '' he asked . 
. 
as he buzzes the Midwest on his first road trip since backpedaling on a major prediction . 
, and he 's right . 
In February 1988 , for example , Merrill Lynch 's weekly commentary announced that `` the economy is likely to fall into recession in early 1989 . '' 
, and , in a splashy ad campaign launched in the summer of 1988 , Merrill Lynch urged investors to buy bonds . 
, so bonds , which benefit from falling rates , would be a good buy . 
The firm also raised the percentage of bonds in its model portfolio from 40 % to 45 % and later to 55 % . 
But this September -- just when many market economists , including some at Merrill Lynch , believed that Mr. Straszheim was about to be proved right -- he took a detour if not a U-turn . 
Now , in fact , he is predicting economic growth of 2.9 % this year and 2.1 % next year , a more optimistic outlook than the consensus of some four dozen top forecasters surveyed by Blue Chip Economic Indicators newsletter . 
And , just recently , Merrill Lynch cut the recommended bondholdings back to 50 % . 
: Merrill Lynch manages or oversees some $ 300 billion in retail accounts that include everything from mutual funds to individual annuities . 
And Mr. Straszheim conceded after a recent drop in manufacturing jobs that `` it may prove to be the case that we got whipsawed -- that we pulled the recession forecast at just the wrong time . '' 
But the surprisingly durable seven-year economic expansion has made mincemeat of more than one forecast . 
But with some clients , the talk can heat up a bit . 
after Mr. Straszheim says something about people who believe interest rates are about to nosedive . 
, although Mr. Straszheim lists an array of interest-rate scenarios . 
In a chilly conference room at Alliance Capital Management in Minneapolis , in contrast , the firm 's money managers seem ready to pin Mr. Straszheim to the wall . 
Or can we ask you why you changed your forecast just when it 's about to be right ? '' 
just when it 's about to be right ? '' 
We could still have a recession '' at some point . 
Explaining his change of mind , Mr. Straszheim says later , `` It 's hard to pin this on one factor . '' 
And it may be right , judging from last week 's report that inflation-adjusted gross national product rose at a 2.5 % annual rate in the third quarter . 
, and then you become its prisoner . '' 
, and then you become its prisoner . '' 
It is indeed hard to back away from a widely publicized forecast , and Mr. Straszheim is fidgeting with the handcuffs on this trip . 
, and Mr. Straszheim is fidgeting with the handcuffs on this trip . 
and that it expects to continue to evaluate an acquisition from time to time . 
, while Crane sank $ 1.125 , to $ 21.125 a share . 
before throwing in the towel and reducing its stake in early September . 
because Prime Minister Thatcher would not fire her trusted adviser Sir Alan Walters . 
. 
as if the pound were tied to the mark . 
. 
As a result , he reignited the inflation that Mrs. Thatcher , through a long and costly effort , had subdued . 
. 
. 
Consequently , Mr. Lawson saddled Mrs. Thatcher with a record trade deficit , renewed inflation and high interest rates -- three political failures in a row . 
. 
, instead emphasizing financial flows in response to high interest rates . 
Then , when the currency falls , interest rates are raised to attract financial flows in order to stabilize the exchange rate . 
. 
, and Sir Alan is correct to point out its deficiencies . 
. 
before we judge Mr. Lawson 's resignation to be unfortunate . 
a day after the government released a report showing that consumer spending propelled U.S. economic expansion in the third quarter while -- on an inflation-adjusted basis -- business investment slowed , government spending declined , and exports were flat . 
while -- on an inflation-adjusted basis -- business investment slowed , government spending declined , and exports were flat . 
, and exports were flat . 
But the new statistics show that by September , the burst in spending seemed to be tapering off . 
and spending grew 0.9 % . 
after the 1990 models were introduced . 
CRA said then that it was looking for a partner for the mine , which produces more than three million metric tons of coal a year . 
Moreover , the company , whose go-it-alone approach nearly proved fatal , now sees alliances with others as the way back to prosperity in what it calls `` the data solutions '' business . 
, but we have completed the transition , '' Robert M. Price , chairman and chief executive , said in an interview . 
So its senior executives are talking openly about possibly buying back some of the company 's $ 172.5 million in subordinated convertible debentures next year . 
, and we expect that to continue into 1990 . '' 
. 
Rather , Mr. Perlman said , Control Data intends to bid for the coming Minnesota lottery contract and is seeking new applications for the technology overseas , where `` there is great interest in games of skill . '' 
, the executives acknowledged , but they said they consider some of the technology vital to national defense and so are reluctant to dispose of it . 
and so are reluctant to dispose of it . 
. 
But while its stock is selling at about half Control Data 's estimated breakup value , neither Messrs. Perlman nor Price said he spends much time considering the possibility of a hostile takeover . 
. 
when I start my commute to work with eyes tearing and head aching from the polluted air ; when I try to enjoy the beaches and come home covered with tar and oil ; when I hear of numerous deaths related to irresponsible processing of cheese and use of chemicals in fruit growing . 
when I start my commute to work with eyes tearing and head aching from the polluted air ; when I try to enjoy the beaches and come home covered with tar and oil ; when I hear of numerous deaths related to irresponsible processing of cheese and use of chemicals in fruit growing . 
when I start my commute to work with eyes tearing and head aching from the polluted air ; when I try to enjoy the beaches and come home covered with tar and oil ; when I hear of numerous deaths related to irresponsible processing of cheese and use of chemicals in fruit growing . 
. 
, but picking Frank Lloyd Wright to say it for you was a bad call . 
before it became fashionable among `` la-la activists . '' 
Indeed , Wright said all his life that the greatest lessons he learned were derived from the study of nature . 
But it was Frank Lloyd Wright who said , `` Is this not Anti-Christ ? The Moloch that knows no God but more ? '' 
when they urge a prohibition for enactment into law . 
, and net income nearly tripled from restated year-earlier net of $ 900 million . 
But passenger-kilometers , the distance flown while carrying people , increased 5.3 % in 1988 . 
while carrying people , increased 5.3 % in 1988 . 
and people no longer have to fear a simple slip of the tongue . 
just because it offends foreigners . 
. 
'' when Mr. Ross refused a meeting and made it clear he would stop them . 
, and , in fact , denies virtually everything Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters say in their affidavits . 
But they also make it clear that the first thing a judge will have to decide is which , if any , version of events in this morass is fiction , and which fact . 
But they also make it clear that the first thing a judge will have to decide is which , if any , version of events in this morass is fiction , and which fact . 
, but the bitterness of this battle and the accusations flying on both sides make it unlikely that the decade-long relationship between Warner and its two most prolific producers can ever be repaired . 
So far , however , Sony has n't been willing to meet its considerable financial demands . 
, choosing instead to find someone else to run Columbia , although that too would be costly given the financial arrangement already guaranteed to Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters . 
, although that too would be costly given the financial arrangement already guaranteed to Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters . 
, but they would be left without their dream job of running a studio and with a considerably scarred relationship with Warner . 
, but other murkier issues will play a big role . 
if the opportunity to run a major studio came up . 
, and another producer would be giving all of the orders . 
, and plans for a soundtrack `` worth millions of dollars '' were dropped . 
. '' 
The editor also says the new producer on the film , Bruce Baird , told editors to screen the picture without telling stars Sylvester Stallone and Kurt Russell or Mr. Peters . 
, '' Mr. de la Bouillaire says Mr. Baird told them . 
and tell them it will be done , '' Mr. de la Bouillaire says Mr. Baird told them . 
. '' 
and that `` the deal , although apparently a good one for him and Mr. Peters , would have a very negative impact on Warner . '' 
. '' 
and that , in a conference call , the three agreed they could n't let the producers out of their contract . 
and that Mr. Semel said Mr. Ross was `` crazy because of the Time deal , '' meaning , Mr. Guber says , that Mr. Ross `` did not want to communicate to his new merger partner , Time Inc. , that Warner 's agreements provided for our departure under these circumstances . '' 
Mr. Guber also says in his affidavit that Mr. Daly `` told us that even if Sony did not want us , Warner 's relationship with us already was irreparably damaged , that there was no way ` to put the egg together , ' and that it would sue Sony for tons of money . '' 
. '' 
, ' and that it would sue Sony for tons of money . '' 
Moreover , Mr. Guber claims , Mr. Semel told him that Mr. Ross probably would n't object `` if it were anybody other than Sony . 
`` if it were anybody other than Sony . 
But Sony is a problem . '' 
But the Warner executives in their affidavits deny ever telling the producers they could get out of their written contract . 
But Mr. Guber indicates in his affidavit that not all of the projects will be used . 
For example , he says that since 1985 , he and Mr. Peters have developed over 85 movie projects , and Warner has `` passed '' or chosen not to produce at least 76 . 
, and Warner has `` passed '' or chosen not to produce at least 76 . 
The company also has acquired Sundance Publishers and Distributors Inc. , a family owned producer and distributor of educational materials in Littleton , Mass . 
, '' he said , `` but you ca n't be satisfied with deficits at this level and we 're not . '' 
and we 're not . '' 
before the year ended on Sept. 30 . 
. 
Nevertheless , the 1989 deficit still exceeded the $ 136 billion target set by the Gramm-Rudman deficit-reduction law by $ 16 billion , a reminder of that law 's shortcomings . 
, but that proved to be about $ 5 billion too optimistic . 
because Oct. 1 fell on a Sunday . 
when the board of directors met Friday . 
, but its financial situation has been improving since then . 
-- if the alternative for the Japanese company is extinction . 
But analysts say Sansui is a special case . 
and its liabilities currently exceed its assets by about 13.8 billion yen . `` 
, '' said George Watanabe , a management-consultant at Tokyo-based Asia Advisory Services Inc . 
, because unlike Sansui , which is listed on the Tokyo and Osaka stock exchanges , most of the Japanese companies acquired by foreigners are privately held . 
But by all accounts foreign companies have bought only a relative handful of Japanese companies this year , while Japanese companies have acquired hundreds of foreign companies . 
, while Japanese companies have acquired hundreds of foreign companies . 
Nor do analysts expect the Sansui deal to touch off a fresh wave of foreign purchases . 
. 
, and the grim demeanors of Sansui 's directors at a joint news conference here left little doubt that this was not the company 's finest hour . 
, and the grim demeanors of Sansui 's directors at a joint news conference here left little doubt that this was not the company 's finest hour . 
But in recent years , the market has moved toward less expensive `` mini-component '' sets , miniaturized amplifiers and receivers and software players that could be stacked on top of each other . 
. 
. 
But even a Japanese company that looks like a dog may turn out to be a good investment for a foreign concern , some management consultants maintain . 
, but they 're becoming more positive , '' Mr. Murasawa said . 
, but at the news conference , Mr. Nadir brimmed with self-confidence that he can turn Sansui around . 
so it can compete and become a totally global entity capable of competing with the best in the world , that capital will be injected , '' Mr. Nadir said . 
And while Polly Peck is n't jettisoning the existent top-management structure of Sansui , it is bringing in a former Toshiba Corp. executive as executive vice president and chief operating officer . 
. 
Moreover , the amended pact shows how McCaw 's persistence has pushed LIN and BellSouth into a corner , forcing huge debt on the proposed new company . 
But under new terms of the agreement , announced Friday , LIN holders would receive a special cash dividend of $ 42 a share , representing a payout of about $ 2.23 billion , shortly before the proposed merger . 
, but commitments from banks still have n't been obtained . 
In addition , New York-based LIN would exercise its right to buy out for $ 1.9 billion the 55 % equity interest of its partner , Metromedia Co. , in a New York cellular franchise . 
That money also would have to be borrowed . 
. 
But I do n't think we 're at that point yet . '' 
if the regional Bell company ever decides to buy the rest of the new cellular company . 
McCaw 's bid also has a similar clause . 
To mollify shareholders concerned about the long-term value of the company under the BellSouth-LIN agreement , BellSouth also agreed to pay as much as $ 10 a share , or $ 540 million , if , after five years , the trading value of the new cellular company is n't as high as the value that shareholders would have realized from the McCaw offer . 
, if , after five years , the trading value of the new cellular company is n't as high as the value that shareholders would have realized from the McCaw offer . 
But Kenneth Leon , a telecommunications analyst with Bear , Stearns & Co. , finds the BellSouth proposal still flawed because the company does n't have to wait five years to begin buying more LIN shares . 
because the company does n't have to wait five years to begin buying more LIN shares . 
Indeed , BellSouth 's cellular operations were among the first in the country to become profitable . 
, but now those estimates are being scaled back . 
, while McCaw fell $ 2.50 a share to $ 37.75 . 
Indeed , McCaw seemed to hint at that option in a brief statement . 
Their motivation , however , has a strong practical aspect : Program trading is hazardous to their paychecks . 
Other market-maker gripes : Program trading also causes the Nasdaq Composite Index to lose ground against other segments of the stock market . 
Moreover , the price volatility that is amplified by program trading is undercutting efforts to woo individual investors back to an OTC market that sorely misses them . 
But the big , often tumultuous slide in stock prices this month has turned some of those who have been profiting from the practice against it . 
when it began in the pre-crash bull market because it added liquidity and people were pleased to see stock prices rising . 
because it added liquidity and people were pleased to see stock prices rising . 
and people were pleased to see stock prices rising . 
until they became sell programs , '' says Mr. DaPuzzo , who now thinks it adds unnecessary volatility . 
Shearson Lehman , however , executes program trades for clients . 
Shearson , Merrill Lynch and Goldman Sachs say they do so only for customers , however . 
, but they seem to hurt market makers more painfully these days . 
and trading activity dwindled . 
when other holders are n't selling . 
And to protect their reduced capital investment from eroding further , market makers became quicker to lower price quotes when sell programs are in progress . 
when sell programs are in progress . 
when no one else will . 
when you know you 're going to lose , '' says Mr. Antolini , of Donaldson Lufkin . 
But this skittishness , Mr. Antolini says , is creating liquidity problems in certain OTC stocks . 
when the sell programs come in because some market makers do n't want to -LCB- take the orders -RCB- . 
because some market makers do n't want to -LCB- take the orders -RCB- . 
and no one wants to take big risks . '' 
But , he observes , while makers suffer losses when program trading drags the market down , they also make money when program trading pushes the prices higher . 
. 
when program trading drags the market down , they also make money when program trading pushes the prices higher . 
, they also make money when program trading pushes the prices higher . 
when program trading pushes the prices higher . 
. 
. 
as buy programs kick in , the Nasdaq Composite frequently is left behind . 
Eight trading days after Oct. 12 , the day before the stock market plunge , for instance , the Nasdaq Composite had fallen 4.3 % , compared with 3.3 % for the S&P 500 , 3.5 % for the New York Stock Exchange Composite Index and 3.6 % for the industrial average . 
after the jewelry store operator said it is in preliminary discussions , with a party it would n't identify , regarding the possible acquisition of the company . 
after the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. approved Dime Savings Bank of New York 's $ 21-a-share acquisition of Starpointe . 
after Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson 's resignation slapped the market and Wall Street 's rapid initial sell-off knocked it down . 
and Wall Street 's rapid initial sell-off knocked it down . 
after central bank support firmed sterling , but the weight of Wall Street late in London trading , and signs of further weakness in the British pound , proved a hefty load to bear . 
, but the weight of Wall Street late in London trading , and signs of further weakness in the British pound , proved a hefty load to bear . 
after the London market closed . 
But they said Friday 's focus on the top-tier stocks telegraphed active overseas selling and showed the broad-based fears over the status of the U.K. economy and Britain 's currency in the wake of the upheaval in Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher 's cabinet . 
, and British Telecom fell 10 to 250 . 
But they failed to sell these stocks to client investors , who were cautious about the sharp gains these issues made this week , the Wako official said . 
and that the DAX dropped Friday more on a lack of any substantial buying interest . 
. 
, at least until the market in New York settles down somewhat . 
Share prices also closed lower in Sydney , Hong Kong , Singapore , Taipei , Manila , Wellington and Seoul . 
before being released two weeks ago , urged peace , negotiation and discipline . 
, and security forces did n't interfere . 
. 
The measure also moves more than $ 450 million in the Pentagon budget to home-state projects from foreign bases . 
The rebels also reportedly tightened a blockade on roads leading to the capital , and government forces shelled a guerrilla-held area in western Afghanistan . 
, and government forces shelled a guerrilla-held area in western Afghanistan . 
because it fails to provide a timetable for a Syrian troop pullout from Lebanon . 
while on a flight from the neighboring island of Maui . 
. 
. 
, while foreign orders rose a real 1 % and a nominal 5 % . 
. 
Then Procter & Gamble Co. agreed to buy Noxell Corp. for $ 1.3 billion . 
; but they also bring mammoth marketing clout , sparking fear . 
; but they also bring mammoth marketing clout , sparking fear . 
. 
But industry watchers expect them to blend the methodical marketing strategies they use for more mundane products with the more intuitive approach typical of cosmetics companies . 
But some cosmetics-industry executives wonder whether techniques honed in packaged goods will translate to the cosmetics business . 
, and since most products can be easily copied by competitors , they 're loath to test them with consumers . 
. 
, '' says Leonard Lauder , chief executive of Estee Lauder . 
P&G , in particular , rarely rolls out a product nationally before extensive test-marketing . 
It also redesigned Oil of Olay 's packaging , stamping the traditional pink boxes with gold lines to create a more opulent look . 
Moreover , P&G shifted its ad campaign from one targeting older women to one featuring a woman in her mid-30s vowing `` not to grow old gracefully . '' 
; Schering , however , denies the brand is for sale . 
. 
Instead , they focus on events in department stores and pour their promotional budgets into gifts that go along with purchases . 
Estee Lauder , for example , spends only an estimated 5 % of sales on advertising in the U.S. , and Mr. Lauder says he has no plans to change his strategy . 
U.S. , and Mr. Lauder says he has no plans to change his strategy . 
The most dramatic changes , however , probably will come in new-product development . 
. 
This fall , for example , L'Oreal Group , ordinarily a high-end line , rolled out a drug-store line of skin-care products called Plenitude , which retail for $ 5 to $ 15 . 
P&G , in fact , is noted for gaining market leadership by introducing products that offer a technical edge over the competition . 
Sales of its Tide detergent soared earlier this year , for example , after P&G introduced a version that includes a bleach safe for all colors and fabrics . 
, after P&G introduced a version that includes a bleach safe for all colors and fabrics . 
But success for Unilever and P&G is far from guaranteed , as shown by the many consumer-product companies that have tried and failed to master the quirky beauty business . 
after the brand languished . 
because they are linked to ready-to-wear fashions . 
. 
and most cosmetics purchases are unplanned , careful training of store sales staffs by cosmetics companies is important . 
And cultivating a luxury image strong enough to persuade consumers to pay more than $ 15 for lipstick or eye makeup requires a subtle touch that packaged-goods companies have yet to demonstrate on their own . 
when it comes to setting policy on covert activities . 
. 
Mr. Bush has pledged as well to respect the 14-year-old executive order barring U.S. agents from assassinating foreign leaders or helping others to do so . 
Despite objections by the CIA , Mr. Bush also has agreed to the establishment of an inspector general at the CIA who would be independent of the CIA director . 
It also has removed a ban on CIA use of a contingency fund for covert acts and has agreed to wipe away some tortured and legalistic restrictions on coup planning put in place to ensure that the CIA did n't get back in the assassination game . 
, if the U.S. learned of a coup plot that might endanger his life . 
The president also hinted he might veto this year 's intelligence authorization bill if it is too restrictive . 
if it is too restrictive . 
Instead , Mr. Bush and his aides made it clear they respected Congress 's role and felt they could work with the conservative Mr. Boren and the moderate Mr. Cohen to iron out their differences . 
, and that the committee had given Mr. Bush `` a clean slate , '' free of the impediments imposed during the Reagan years . 
There still are some details to be nailed down . 
And a pending Justice Department interpretation of the assassination ban could raise questions that would have to be settled . 
Moreover , both sides may face political critics . 
And they continue anonymously attacking CIA Director William Webster for being too accommodating to the committee . 
, and they will warn that the lawmakers ' concessions raise the specter of more internationally embarrassing covert operations like the mining of Nicaraguan harbors and the Iran arms sales . 
But if the cooperative attitude holds and there is greater consultation on covert activities , the country could be entering an era when such hare-brained schemes are scrapped before they get off the drawing boards , while risky but well-planned secret operations can be undertaken without fear that a panicky Congress will balk . 
. 
and there is greater consultation on covert activities , the country could be entering an era when such hare-brained schemes are scrapped before they get off the drawing boards , while risky but well-planned secret operations can be undertaken without fear that a panicky Congress will balk . 
before they get off the drawing boards , while risky but well-planned secret operations can be undertaken without fear that a panicky Congress will balk . 
, while risky but well-planned secret operations can be undertaken without fear that a panicky Congress will balk . 
. 
Finally , the government has to convince a rattled financial community -- and voters -- it is proceeding coherently toward its goals . 
, but the deadline is late 1991 , when Mrs. Thatcher is expected to call another national election . 
. 
and Sir Alan Walters , the adviser , announced his resignation within an hour . 
, but they now say it will be deeper and longer than they had thought . 
, economists say , while the grueling downturn now expected could stretch into 1992 . 
if Britain 's major trading partners in Europe , which are enjoying robust economic activity , cool off as expected in late 1990 and 1991 . 
. 
, '' says John Barnes , a lecturer at the London School of Economics . 
once its inflation rate fell and the EC liberalized capital movements . 
and the EC liberalized capital movements . 
when the Frankfurt authorities move interest rates . 
. 
! 
; But what gets by me every time Is has the milk expired ? 
When Men Do Chores 
. 
But the researchers found that while children 's household tasks eased the mother 's burden appreciably , the husband 's helping hand `` appears to lighten the children 's load almost on a one-for-one basis and to reduce the wife 's responsibility only modestly . '' 
. '' 
But the kids with highly educated parents did 68 % less housework than those in less-educated families . 
if they want welfare help on medical bills . 
before qualifying for Medicaid assistance . 
But separate reports from Joshua Weiner and Denise Spence of the Brookings Institution and Korbin Liu of the Urban Institute find that `` a surprisingly small proportion '' -- only about 10 % -- of residents start out as private payers but `` spend down '' to Medicaid levels in a single nursing home stay before they die or are discharged . 
before they die or are discharged . 

But a remarkably high percentage -- over half -- are private payers throughout their stay , even a fairly lengthy one . 
, while the rest are covered throughout by Medicare , private insurers or the Veterans Administration . 
The Brookings and Urban Institute authors caution , however , that most nursing home stays are of comparatively short duration , and reaching the Medicaid level is more likely with an unusually long stay or repeated stays . 
, and reaching the Medicaid level is more likely with an unusually long stay or repeated stays . 
Moreover , they note , those who manage to pay their own way often do so only by selling their homes , using up life savings or drawing heavily on children and other relatives . 
NORC 's most recent opinion surveys find the youngest adults indeed somewhat more pro-Reagan and pro-Republican than other adults . 
But , says chief investigator Tom Smith , this `` does not translate into support for conservatism in general or into conservative positions on feminist and civil rights issues . '' 
They were also as liberal or more liberal than any other age group in the 1986 through 1989 surveys . 
For example , 66 % of the 18 to 24 year olds in the four latest surveys favored an `` open housing '' law prohibiting homeowners from refusing on racial grounds to sell to prospective buyers . That compares with 58 % of the similar age group in the 1980 through 1982 surveys and 55 % in the 1972 through 1975 surveys . 
, after he finished his lunch at the Savoy Hotel , an unlikely prelude to a bureaucratic brow-beating : Eight-foot-tall Rubenesquely naked ladies float on their canvases toward a ceiling teeming with cherubs , all surrounded by gilt laid on with a pastry chef 's trowel and supported by marble corinthian columns whose capitals are fluting fountains of gold . 
so they can ... '' whack , whack , whack his hand made vigorous spanking gestures on his left palm . `` 
And indeed , as he later reported , that was the import of the meeting . 
, so do n't smoke ! '' 
In fact , a very high-ranking Soviet official told an American official at a diplomatic dinner that no change in the policy was contemplated . 
; today it sells 3.4 million . 
Pravda , meanwhile , has retained only 57 % of its 1986 readership . 
But as astounding as the changes that have already occurred are , there is a fragility to glasnost . 
So glasnost is not a value woven with steel threads into the fabric of Russian society . 
, who then asks , `` What would that accomplish ? 
-- it also draws the line that Soviet society must cross to enter the normal dialogue of Western culture . 
Judge Albert Green , in Cook County Circuit Court in Chicago , also recognized the suit , filed last May by Robert and Cynthia Langendorf , as a class action covering thousands of Irving customers . 
and then turn on the red and bring growth to a screeching halt . 
But under Alan Greenspan that has changed . 
Indeed , his caution has become legendary within the government . 
, and when he finally decides to act , his movements sometimes seem excrutiatingly small . 
, and when he finally decides to act , his movements sometimes seem excrutiatingly small . 
. 
But he refused , claiming that he wanted to see what happened Monday morning before making any public statement . 
before making any public statement . 
Mr. Greenspan 's decision to keep quiet also prompted a near-mutiny within the Fed 's ranks . 
, but it was greeted with applause by the Bush administration and the financial markets . 
And , while the mutinous Fed member has n't gone public , some Fed governors , most notably Vice Chairman Manuel Johnson , are known to have disagreed with the chairman 's decision to remain silent . 
. 
, or whether that was a newspaper report . '' 
And , by the end of that week , the key federal funds interest rate , which is largely controlled by the Fed , had settled at 8.75 % , barely changed from the level of just under 9 % that prevailed the previous week . 
In fact , the administration and the Fed have been going out of their way in the past two weeks to dispel any impression that they are at odds , fearing stories about an administration-Fed split added to the stock market 's jitters . 
Still , the split is there . 
, and the auto industry and housing are in a severe crunch . 
But Mr. Greenspan remains reluctant to loosen policy , partly because he faces a phalanx of presidents of regional Fed banks who oppose credit easing . 
, partly because he faces a phalanx of presidents of regional Fed banks who oppose credit easing . 
In addition , the chairman has a wary eye aimed a year or two down the road . 
But if the Fed eases too soon , Mr. Greenspan fears , prices may begin to accelerate again next year . 
. 
Moreover , if the Fed holds tight , it may be able gradually to reduce inflation , moving toward the zero-inflation goal that the Fed chairman embraced in testimony to Congress last week . 
, moving toward the zero-inflation goal that the Fed chairman embraced in testimony to Congress last week . 
, and we 've gone through an election without any major problems , '' says David Hale , an economist of Kemper Financial Services . 
But such caution is no guarantee against mistakes . 
. 
. 
and co-founders will sell 110,000 shares , via Oppenheimer & Co . 
But even on the federal bench , specialization is creeping in , and it has become a subject of sharp controversy on the newest federal appeals court . 
, and it has become a subject of sharp controversy on the newest federal appeals court . 
Previously , patent cases moved through the court system to one of the 12 circuit appeals courts . 
But the Reagan administration thought otherwise , and so may the Bush administration . 
, and so may the Bush administration . 
and three others are likely to be filled within a few years , so patent lawyers and research-based industries are making a new push for specialists to be added to the court . 
, so patent lawyers and research-based industries are making a new push for specialists to be added to the court . 
`` But we will take it into consideration . '' 
before he was appointed to the Federal Circuit two years ago . 
Yet some lawyers point to Eli Lilly & Co. vs. Medtronic , Inc. , the patent infringement case the Supreme Court this month agreed to review , as an example of poor legal reasoning by judges who lack patent litigation experience . 
. 
And Judge Newman , a former patent lawyer , wrote in her dissent when the court denied a motion for a rehearing of the case by the full court , `` The panel 's judicial legislation has affected an important high-technological industry , without regard to the consequences for research and innovation or the public interest . '' 
. '' 
'' when GE brought him in to clean up Kidder in 1987 -- retires to his Lake Forest , Ill. , home , possibly to build a shopping mall on some land he owns . 
And that means 42-year-old Michael Carpenter , president and chief executive since January , will for the first time take complete control of Kidder and try to make good on some grandiose plans . 
But they have to attract good senior bankers who can bring in the business from day one . '' 
, although Kidder expects it to turn a profit this year . 
In fact , Kidder is a minor player in just about every business it does except computer-driven program trading ; in that controversial business , only Morgan Stanley & Co. rivals Kidder . 
But even that niche is under attack , as several Wall Street firms pulled back from program trading last week under pressure from big investors . 
, as several Wall Street firms pulled back from program trading last week under pressure from big investors . 
and its mergers-and-acquisitions staff increased to a record 55 people . 
. 
. 
Yet , says Mr. Carpenter , `` We 've really started to exploit the synergy between GE Capital and Kidder Peabody . '' 
, he says , though not all of them have panned out . 
Still , without many actual deals to show off , Kidder is left to stress that it finally has `` a team '' in place , and that everyone works harder . 
, and that everyone works harder . 
while flying his single-engine Cessna Centurion on the way to Nantucket . '' 
'' when considering a merger deal , he says . 
Mr. Carpenter notes that these types of investors also are `` sophisticated '' enough not to complain about Kidder 's aggressive use of program trading . 
Theoretically , the brokers will then be able to funnel `` leads '' on corporate finance opportunities to Kidder 's investment bankers , possibly easing the longstanding tension between the two camps . 
However , skeptics caution that this kind of cross-pollination between brokers and investment bankers looks great on paper , but does n't always happen . 
However , competitors say that Kidder 's hiring binge involving executive-level staffers , some with multiple-year contract guarantees , could backfire unless there are results . 
unless there are results . 
He also improved the firm 's compliance procedures for trading . 
when he talks about Mr. Carpenter , Mr. Cathcart says the new Kidder chief is `` going to be recognized shortly as one of the real leaders in the investment-banking business . '' 
Or , as Mr. Carpenter , again drawing on his consulting-firm background , puts it : `` We 're ready to implement at this point . 
Contract details , however , have n't been made public . 
since President Corazon Aquino took office in February 1986 . 
It also is considered critical to the country 's efforts to both attract other investment from Taiwan and raise heavy industry capabilities . 
However , workers ca n't break ground until legal maneuvers to block the complex are resolved , moves which caused the signing to remain questionable up to the last moment . 
until legal maneuvers to block the complex are resolved , moves which caused the signing to remain questionable up to the last moment . 
, but Mr. Garcia late last month filed for a reconsideration . 
In addition , President Aquino has yet to sign into law a bill removing a stiff 48 % tax on naphtha , the principal raw material to be used in the cracker . 
However , at a news conference Thursday , Mrs. Aquino backed the project and said her government was attempting to soothe the feelings of residents at the original site , adjacent to the government 's major petroleum refinery in Bataan province . 
, but certainly we will do our best to encourage other investors to go to their province , '' Mrs. Aquino told Manila-based foreign correspondents . 
However , Mr. Lee said that USI Far East is confident other investors will take up the slack . 
, and one began trading on the Nasdaq\/National Market System last week . 
Also beginning trading today on the Big Board are El Paso Refinery Limited Partnership , El Paso , Texas , -LRB- ELP -RRB- and Franklin Multi-Income Trust , San Mateo , Calif. , -LRB- FMI -RRB- . 
Rather , it 's a device that could send shock waves through the president 's entire relationship with Democrats and Republicans alike in Congress , fundamentally enhance the power of the presidency and transform the way the government does its business . 
. 
-- and for that reason , the president may back down from launching a test case this year . 
Still , Mr. Bush and some other aides are strongly drawn to the idea of trying out a line-item veto . 
because they often are needed to keep the government operating . 
because the power already is implicit in the Constitution . 
... . '' 
-- and that it would quickly make its way to the Supreme Court to be ultimately resolved . 
, and they would n't want to leave it at a lower level , '' says Stephen Glazier , a New York attorney whose writings have been instrumental in pushing the idea that a president already has a line-item veto . 
. 
unless the congressman `` shapes up '' on the foreign-policy issue . 
But there may be another problem with the device : Despite all the political angst it would cause , it might n't be effective in cutting the deficit . 
And it is n't even clear that some pork-barrel projects can be hit with a line-item veto because they tend to be listed in informal conference reports accompanying spending bills rather than in the official bills themselves . 
because they tend to be listed in informal conference reports accompanying spending bills rather than in the official bills themselves . 
Still , proponents contend that the veto would have what Mr. Glazier calls an important `` chilling effect '' on all manner of appropriations bills . 
of having them singled out for a line-item veto later . 
Indeed , although a majority of Republican lawmakers favor a line-item veto , some , ranging from liberal Oregon Sen. Mark Hatfield to conservative Rep. Edwards are opposed . 
. 
, he notes , may regret it later : `` Sometime , you 're going to have a Democratic president again '' who 'll use his expanded powers against those very same conservatives . 
. '' 
And now Kellogg is indefinitely suspending work on what was to be a $ 1 billion cereal plant . 
But the Memphis , Tenn. , facility was n't to begin turning out product until 1993 , so the decision may reveal a more pessimistic long-term outlook as well . 
, so the decision may reveal a more pessimistic long-term outlook as well . 
while General Mills ' share is about 27 % . 
simply because they are made of oats , '' says Merrill Lynch food analyst William Maguire . 
if , over the next two years or so , General Mills ' share increased to 30 % or more . 
until market conditions warrant it . 
General Mills , meanwhile , finds itself constrained from boosting sales further because its plants are operating at capacity . 
because its plants are operating at capacity . 
, '' he said . 
, and as we continue to put new products into the marketplace and need additional capacity , we will look at resuming our involvement with our plan , '' he said . 
, '' he said . 
But in recent weeks , construction-industry sources reported that early preparation work was slowing at the 185-acre site . 
and that the company 's plans for a surge in market share may have been overly optimistic . 
. 
. 
Rather , the two closely linked exchanges have been drifting apart for some years , with a nearly five-year-old moratorium on new dual listings , separate and different listing requirements , differing trading and settlement guidelines and diverging national-policy aims . 
, while exports rose 17 % to 16.436 trillion lire . 
, while exports grew 18 % to 140.106 trillion lire . 
, while exports are accounted for on a free-on-board -LRB- f.o.b . -RRB- basis . 
. 
and Factorex , a financial services company , holds 8.42 % . 
Some analysts are concerned , however , that Banco Exterior may have waited too long to diversify from its traditional export-related activities . 
, particularly if market conditions turn sour . 
, when the European Community plans to dismantle financial barriers . 
Mr. Luzon and his team , however , say they are n't interested in a merger . 
Instead , they are working to transform Banco Exterior into an efficient bank by the end of 1992 . 
The market for export financing was liberalized in the mid-1980s , however , forcing the bank to face competition . 
As a result , the volume of Banco Exterior 's export credit portfolio plunged from 824 billion pesatas -LRB- $ 7.04 billion -RRB- as of Dec. 31 , 1986 , to its current 522 billion pesetas . 
The other two main pillars of Banco Exterior 's traditional business -- wholesale banking and foreign currency trading -- also began to crumble under the weight of heavy competition and changing client needs . 
. 
But Mr. Luzon has moved swiftly to streamline bureaucracy , cut costs , increase capital and build up new areas of business . 
, which will aid Banco Exterior with the tough tasks it faces ahead . 
Expansion plans also include acquisitions in growing foreign markets . 
But the bank 's retail activities in Latin America are likely to be cut back . 
before the four Spanish stock exchanges underwent sweeping changes in July . 
as Spain continues to open up its market to foreign competition . 
But Mr. Luzon contends that the experienced team he brought with him from Banco Bilbao Vizcaya , where he was formerly director general , will whip the bank 's capital market division into shape by the end of 1992 . 
The bank also says it 'll use its international network to channel investment from London , Frankfurt , Zurich and Paris into the Spanish stock exchanges . 
Mr. Pearce has also encouraged his staff to work more closely with GM 's technical staffs to help prevent future litigation . 
The lawyers also monitor suits to identify specific automobile parts that cause the biggest legal problems . 
But the New Jersey U.S. attorney averaged 16 . 
and then fraudulently concealing much of the money through purchases of prime real estate in Manhattan . 
The office also said Mrs. Marcos and her husband were n't brought to the U.S. against their will after Mr. Marcos was ousted as president . 
after Mr. Marcos was ousted as president . 
and that they were enjoying the hospitality of the U.S. . 
. 
The appeals court , however , said the judge did n't adequately consider whether the delay would actually hurt the chances of a fair trial . 
before considering mandatory pro bono . 
'' when auto makers pressure them to stockpile cars on their lots . 
since he took office earlier this year , said that with half of the nation 's dealers losing money or breaking even , it was time for `` emergency action . '' 
But Mr. Tonkin said dealers should slash stocks to between 15 and 30 days to reduce the costs of financing inventory . 
except when his 15-day car supply does n't include the bright red one that the lady wants to buy and she goes up the street to buy one , '' a Chrysler spokesman said . 
and she goes up the street to buy one , '' a Chrysler spokesman said . 
The grand jury has also been investigating whether Gulf Power executives violated the federal Utility Holding Company Act , which prohibits certain utilities from making political contributions . 
And prosecutors declined to comment . 
. 
if any charges are brought against it . 
But the company said the political contributions had been made more than five years ago . 
Further , under the agreement , First Tennesse would continue to develop the software that creates customer products and sevices . 
, '' according to John Kelley , executive vice president and corporate services group manager at First Tennessee . 
However , about 120 employees will be affected by the agreement . 
, '' and `` the possibility of deterioration in the current account next year can not be excluded . '' 
The Treasury expressed pleasure , however , with the government of Taiwan , which was cited for exchange-rate manipulation in last year 's report . 
Then , by voice vote , the Senate voted a pork-barrel bill , approved Thursday by the House , for domestic military construction . 
, as President Bush and other leaders from the Western Hemisphere gathered in the Central American nation for a celebration of democracy . 
, but the debt plan was rushed to completion in order to be announced at the meeting . 
. '' 
, and additional funds are expected from Japan . 
The Treasury also announced details of this week 's unusual bill auction , which has been changed to accommodate the expiration of the federal debt ceiling at midnight tomorrow . 
The Treasury also said noncompetitive tenders will be considered timely if postmarked no later than Sunday , Oct. 29 , and received no later than tomorrow . 
if postmarked no later than Sunday , Oct. 29 , and received no later than tomorrow . 
Recently , the boards of both the parent company and the thrift also voted to suspend dividends on preferred shares of both companies and convert all preferred into common shares . 
, while the insurance operations earned $ 884,000 . 
But the actual head count of non-farm employment payroll jobs is likely to be muddied by the impact of Hurricane Hugo , strikes , and less-than-perfect seasonal adjustments , economists said . 
But the important factory-jobs segment , which last month plunged by 103,000 positions and raised recession fears , is most likely to be skewed by the month 's unusual events . 
, because it will be distorted by San Francisco 's earthquake . 
while a reading above 50 % indicates an economy that 's expanding . 
because it often presents the first inkling of economic data for the month . 
But he added : `` Some people use the purchasers ' index as a leading indicator , some use it as a coincident indicator . 
But the thing it 's supposed to measure -- manufacturing strength -- it missed altogether last month . '' 
. '' 
because school clothes have been bought and people are waiting for December to buy Christmas presents , '' he said . 
and people are waiting for December to buy Christmas presents , '' he said . 
But Mr. Wyss said he will watch the numbers to get an inkling of whether consumers ' general buying habits may slack off as much as their auto-buying apparently has . 
Seasonal factors are also expected to have taken their toll on September new-home sales , which are believed to have fallen sharply from August 's 755,000 units . 
, although economists noted the rate probably will pick up in the months ahead in response to hurricane and earthquake damage . 
, machine tool makers say , but sluggish sales of new cars and trucks raise questions about fourth-quarter demand from the important automotive industry . 
September orders for all U.S. producers , in fact , were slightly above the monthly average for 1988 , a good year for the industry . 
`` And export business is still good . 
. '' 
But sales of North American-made 1990-model cars are running at an annual rate of only six million , down from 7.1 million a year earlier . And truck sales also are off more than 20 % . 
And truck sales also are off more than 20 % . 
And truck sales also are off more than 20 % . 
if their sales do n't pick up , machine tool builders say . 
Machine tool executives are hopeful , however , that recent developments in Eastern Europe will expand markets for U.S.-made machine tools in that region . 
as those nations strive to improve the efficiency of their ailing factories as well as the quality of their goods . 
However , there 's a continuing dispute between machine tool makers and the Defense Department over whether sophisticated U.S. machine tools would increase the Soviet Union 's military might . 
, and the Defense Department says stop , '' complains one machine tool producer . 
. 
, and a few orders can produce a high total for one month that does n't necessarily indicate a trend . 
, as machine tool builders produce against relatively good backlogs . 
, even though orders for the first nine months of 1989 were down 19 % from the comparable 1988 period . 
, '' says S.A. Dave , chairman of the Securities and Exchange Board of India . 
But the mega-issues are raising megaquestions about the rapidly evolving Indian capital market . 
Moreover , in the relatively unregulated Indian stock markets , investors frequently do n't know what they are getting when they subscribe to an issue . 
when they subscribe to an issue . 
In addition , once money is raised , investors usually have no way of knowing how it is spent . 
. 
, since Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi started liberalizing industry . 
But the last stock market boom , in 1986 , seems small compared with the current rush to market . 
And it is n't the only giant issue : together , the top four issues will raise $ 1.3 billion . 
, though many companies are also selling nonconvertible bonds or equity shares . 
, though many companies are also selling nonconvertible bonds or equity shares . 
As a result , industry operated out of small , expensive , highly inefficient industrial units . 
. 
. 
, but they have started to think big . 
, and they require more capital than the smaller industrial units built in the past . 
, and many businessmen fear that he and his Congress -LRB- I -RRB- Party will lose . 
The buoyant Bombay rumor mill also says that some of the money raised in the current spate of issues will be used as campaign donations before the elections . 
, but India 's industrialists have a history of making under-the-table campaign donations . 
. 
But with growth come growing pains , and never has this been clearer on the Indian capital market than now . 
, and never has this been clearer on the Indian capital market than now . 
; and government-owned banks controlled the financing of projects and monitored whether companies came through on promised plans . 
But now , with large amounts being raised from investors , the government 's dawdling on regulation and disclosure requirements has a more dangerous aspect . 
, but New Delhi has n't pushed the legislation to make it operational . 
, but he makes no bones about the need to get to work . 
Instead , he says , most investors have to rely on the rumor-happy Indian press . 
. 
. 
Larsen & Toubro , for example , says it 's raising $ 570 million to use as supplier credit on large engineering jobs . 
And even when specific projects are described in prospectuses , the money often is used elsewhere , according to analysts . 
, according to analysts . 
, but they 're totally unprepared for this . '' 
. 
The pact also calls for coordination between Finnair and Switzerland 's national carrier , Swissair , with which SAS entered a similar alliance last month . 
Officials hinted , however , that SAS would take a stake of at least 6 % in Finnair , valued at about $ 40 million at current market prices . 
, as GM got early clearance from the Federal Trade Commission to boost its stake in the British luxury car maker . 
, and on Friday , Jaguar announced that the No. 2 U.S. auto maker had raised its stake to 13.2 % , or 24.2 million shares , from 12.4 % earlier in the week . 
, and moved instead to forge an alliance with GM . 
, but no deal has been announced . 
Ford , on the other hand , has said it 's willing to bid for all of Jaguar , despite the objections of Jaguar chairman Sir John Egan . 
But a Ford spokeswoman in Dearborn said Friday the company has n't requested such a meeting yet . 
once the golden share expires . 
or there is n't , '' said one knowledgeable individual . `` 
. 
Union sentiment also could influence shareholder reaction to a Jaguar-GM accord . 
. 
, before he killed himself . 
And You Are There , sort of : 
, '' thus further blurring the distinction between fiction and reality in TV news . 
Ms. Chung 's , however , is said to be the only network news program in history to employ casting directors . 
But , as CBS Broadcast Group president Howard Stringer puts it , the network now needs to `` broaden the horizons of nonfiction television , and that includes some experimentation . '' 
, and that includes some experimentation . '' 
ABC News has similarly branched out into entertainment gimmickry . 
Or call it the wave of the future . 
, which also makes the successful prime-time NBC Entertainment series `` Unsolved Mysteries . '' 
. 
The marriage of news and theater , if not exactly inevitable , has been consummated nonetheless . 
because they are so much less expensive to produce than an entertainment show is -- somewhere between $ 400,000 and $ 500,000 for a one-hour program . 
because they are so much less expensive to produce than an entertainment show is -- somewhere between $ 400,000 and $ 500,000 for a one-hour program . 
, but the network has some big names to contend with , too . 
and who recently did a guest shot of her own on the sitcom `` Murphy Brown '' -RRB- . 
But the money is n't peanuts either , particularly for a news program . 
CBS News is also re-enacting the 1979 Three Mile Island nuclear accident in Middletown , Pa. , with something less than a cast of thousands . 
, and they want shots of people getting out of cars and kids on skateboards . 
. 
So the results , while not news , are n't exactly theater either , at least not good theater . 
And some people do think that acting out scripts is n't worthy of CBS News , which once lent prestige to the network and set standards for the industry . 
. '' 
, and that has no place on a network news broadcast ... . 
, and that has no place on a network news broadcast ... . 
Both women say they also find it distasteful that CBS News is apparently concentrating on Mr. Hoffman 's problems as a manic-depressive . 
, and maybe talking about the illness will do some good . '' 
, '' but that his concerns were allayed . 
, but who was also a manic-depressive . 
, but who was also a manic-depressive . 
, but they keep low profiles . 
as they grow in the U.S. and Europe . 
, '' says a Dentsu spokesman . 
, but the company is aiming at 20 % in the near future . 
For example , the spokesman says Dentsu has been approached by banks and securities companies a number of times to invest in the troubled British marketing group Saatchi & Saatchi PLC . But he said Dentsu has n't looked seriously at Saatchi . 
But he said Dentsu has n't looked seriously at Saatchi . 
. 
, and net income jumped 59 % to $ 102 million from $ 64 million . 
But success overseas in unfamiliar markets could be trickier than for other industries such as manufacturers . 
when seeking non-Japanese clients . 
Thus , an acquisition may prove the necessary course . 
But Japanese agencies are cautious about expanding abroad because client relationships are different . 
because client relationships are different . 
, says the Dentsu spokesman . 
, many clients would also be Japanese companies expanding overseas , says the Dentsu spokesman . 
But the different business system would make it hard for Dentsu to provide these Japanese companies the same kind of services they do in Japan . 
Thereafter , the rate will be renegotiated . 
. 
only two weeks after Compaq Computer Corp. , believing it had a lead of three to six months on competitors , introduced the first U.S. notebook computer with such features . 
Despite the inevitable comparison with Compaq , however , Texas Instruments ' new notebook wo n't be a direct competitor . 
. 
The introductions also mark Texas Instruments ' plunge back into a technology it has all but ignored for the past several years . 
. 
, as Texas Instruments begins marketing two 14-pound laptop PCs with 20 megabyte and 40 megabyte hard drives . 
and , indeed , are tardy in a market first opened by GRiD Systems Corp. , now a unit of Tandy Corp. , almost two years ago . 
But the notebook , with the more advanced microprocessor and hard disk , is more innovative . 
, but its battery life of two to three hours is shorter . 
, although a snap-on drive can be purchased separately . 
since the Taiwan Securities and Exchange Commission announced June 21 that it would allow foreign brokerage firms to do business in that country . 
But sales in the oil-patch state of Texas surged 12.9 % and sales in South Carolina jumped 10.6 % in the period , the New York trade group said . 
and sales in South Carolina jumped 10.6 % in the period , the New York trade group said . 
In the Northeast , however , sales declined 0.4 % in the period , with sales in New England falling 2.6 % . 
But Mr. Lagnado predicted the regional trends would continue through Christmas . 
because it represents roughly a third of their sales and nearly half of their profits . 
, and the South and the Midwest were first and second respectively , according to the council . 
. 
, they could see some benefits later on . 
as consumers rush to replace items lost in the disasters , he said . 
, '' a KerrMcGee spokeswoman said . 
but earlier , Mr. Weekes had said Mr. Hollander wanted to have his own team on the board . 
The company also changed its dividend policy , under which holders had received an annual 10 cents-a-share payment , by declaring a four-cents-a-share dividend , to be paid quarterly on post-split shares . 
, but that it does n't have the surplus or profit required under Delaware law for payment of the dividend . 
, but NBI said it is legally prohibited from making the redemption . 
NBI also said it has hired Prudential-Bache Securities Inc. as its financial adviser and investment banker to help it restructure financially and improve its balance sheet . 
-- but the recent spate of catastrophes should jolt property insurance rates in coming months . 
because only about 30 % of California homes and businesses had earthquake insurance to cover the losses . 
However , insurance brokers and executives say that the combination of the Bay area earthquake , Hugo and last week 's explosion at the Phillips Petroleum Co. 's refinery in Pasadena , Texas , will cause property insurance and reinsurance rates to jump . 
, which , in turn , accepts a portion of any losses resulting from this policy . 
and had to tap reinsurers to replace that coverage in case there were any other major disasters before the end of the year . 
and Lloyd 's syndicates turned to the London market excess lines for protection of their own . 
if they want to buy reinsurance for 1990 . 
However , companies with few catastrophe losses this year and already big buyers of reinsurance are likely to see their rates remain flat , or perhaps even decline slightly . 
But some large insurers , such as State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Co. , do n't purchase reinsurance , but fund their own program . 
because no one carrier could provide all the coverage that it needed and the company found it cheaper to self-reinsure . 
and the company found it cheaper to self-reinsure . 
, said Herbert Goodfriend at Prudential-Bache Securities Corp . 
; and Fireman 's Fund Corp. expects a charge of no more than $ 50 million before taxes and after using its reinsurance . 
and after using its reinsurance . 
They also approved the relocation of the company 's registered office to Toronto from Vancouver and a name change to NHI Nelson Holdings International Ltd . 
if a person or group acquires 20 % or more of the common shares outstanding without making an offer to all shareholders . 
because they did n't disclose their intentions to acquire a big Rally 's stake . 
The Patterson group , which controls about 42 % of Rally 's shares , also may seek control . 
Rally 's also said it formed a committee of three directors , who are n't associated with either the Patterson or Sugarman groups , to analyze the situation . 
But the proposed transaction calls for an exchange of the debt for new debentures of lower face value and reduced cash interest . 
Also , debt holders would be offered an equity position in Leaseway , which in total would represent a controlling interest in the company . 
, but `` our performance since the -LCB- buy-out -RCB- makes it imperative to implement actions that will further improve our cash flow . 
, and President Bush parried the question at a news conference here Saturday , saying only that `` if there 's an all-out military offensive , that 's going to change the equation 180 degrees . '' 
. '' 
But Mr. Ortega 's threat over the weekend to end a 19-month cease-fire with the rebels seeking to topple him , effectively elevated the Contras as a policy priority just as they were slipping from the agendas of their most ardent supporters . 
just as they were slipping from the agendas of their most ardent supporters . 
if the U.S. ends its financial support for the Contras . 
as Nicaragua is under special international scrutiny in anticipation of its planned February elections . 
And important U.S. lawmakers must decide at the end of November if the Contras are to receive the rest of the $ 49 million in so-called humanitarian assistance under a bipartisan agreement reached with the Bush administration in March . 
. 
Sen. Dole also said he hoped for unanimous support for a resolution he plans to offer tomorrow denouncing the Nicaraguan leader . 
. 
, '' said former Assistant Secretary of State Elliott Abrams . 
, although he added that the agreement requires that the Contras not initiate any military action . 
as U.S. officials were acknowledging that the Contras have at times violated it themselves . 
. '' 
Mr. Baker 's assistant for inter-American affairs , Bernard Aronson , while maintaining that the Sandinistas had also broken the cease-fire , acknowledged : `` It 's never very clear who starts what . '' 
when it was determined that those units broke the cease-fire . 
, Mr. Ortega 's remarks also played to the suspicions of some U.S. officials and conservatives outside the government that he is searching for ways to manipulate or void the February elections . 
so much as he is searching for ways to strengthen his hand prior to the elections . 
, the filing said . 
Rising export sales also contributed to strong growth , Nikon added . 
and net income is expected to rise 53 % to 10.5 billion yen . 
, but he would n't offer a specific estimate . 
, NEC said , and electrical devices made up 23 % . 
Erbamont will then be liquidated , with any remaining Erbamont holders receiving a distribution of $ 37 a share . 
because the laws of the Netherlands Antilles , under which Erbamont is organized , do n't provide for merger transactions . 
, '' even if a merger is n't consummated . 
because the $ 283.7 million offer was not fully financed . 
Oils and fats also did well , posting a 5.3 % sales increase . 
. 
It also said that it would start trading the contract as soon as the CFTC approved it . 
as soon as the CFTC approved it . 
He previously held posts of senior vice president of compliance and senior vice president and general counsel . 
By contrast , the Comex in July imported a highly regarded outsider , Arnold F. Staloff , as its president . 
Mr. Thompson is n't bereft of experience with new products , however . 
, so we expect no difficulty in attracting locals to the natural gas pit , '' he said . 
, though no indictments have been handed down there . 
It also had both the fewest , and least experienced , investigators per million contracts traded . 
. 
as they make them . 
so that an independent , verifiable audit trail can be established to prevent customer fraud . 
The Chicago exchanges also are working on such a device . 
But in May , the Chicago Merc said it was looking into creating a common system with the Chicago Board of Trade , and it suspended negotiations with the New York Merc . 
, and it suspended negotiations with the New York Merc . 
But he said it wo n't climb further and he expects it to remain in a trading range between $ 1.10 and $ 1.25 . 
and he expects it to remain in a trading range between $ 1.10 and $ 1.25 . 
and traders should keep an eye on Wall Street . 
However , to resume the bull trend , according to Mr. O'Neill , copper would have to close over $ 1.19 . 
He also said traders should keep an eye on the stock market , because `` if the stock market rallies , that could spell trouble for the precious metals . '' 
, because `` if the stock market rallies , that could spell trouble for the precious metals . '' 
. '' 
, but will they kill this one as they have every rally in the recent past '' by selling and locking in prices for their production ? 
and that is permitting farmers to rebuild the stockpiles that were cut by the 1988 drought . 
in order to hedge their weekend purchases from farmers . 
Traders will also watch for whether the Soviet Union continues its traditional fall buying of U.S. grain . 
as investors try to get rid of the contract for November delivery . 
, preferring instead to profit from its price swings and then end any obligation to take delivery or make delivery as it nears expiration . 
and then end any obligation to take delivery or make delivery as it nears expiration . 
as it nears expiration . 
. 
But now the companies are getting into trouble because they undertook a record expansion program while they were raising prices sharply . 
because they undertook a record expansion program while they were raising prices sharply . 
while they were raising prices sharply . 
if there 's a recession . 
But they attribute much of the weakness to customer inventory reductions . 
Oppenheimer 's Mr. Palmero , meanwhile , is steering clear of Gaylord Container , Stone Container and Federal Paper Board . 
because its individual mills can make more than one grade of paper . 
, although some risk of further price deterioration exists . 
because it 's carrying a lot of debt . 
and we 're better positioned for any cyclical downturn than we 've ever been . '' 
. 
, he says , though he is n't yet recommending the shares . 
, '' and thus should be able to lower long-term debt substantially next year . 
, and `` we 're still pretty bullish '' on 1990 . 
In addition , the effective interest rate on the $ 410 million of total remaining bank debt after the restructuring is 10.66 % . 
because Nissan is spending heavily to bolster its dealership network in Japan and because of currency-exchange fluctuations . 
But by 1992 , he added , Nissan will build one million vehicles a year outside Japan , or sufficient to equal exports . 
The company also said it continues to explore all options concerning the possible sale of National Aluminum 's 54.5 % stake in an aluminum smelter in Hawesville , Ky . 
The agreement also provides for potential payments of additional proceeds to National Aluminum over the next two years , depending on the plant 's shipping levels . 
as it struggles to absorb an oversupply of bonds and two of its best customers turn into sellers . 
and two of its best customers turn into sellers . 
As a result , yields on long-term muni bonds now stand at about 95 % of long-term Treasury yields , the highest such level in more than two years . 
But while analysts say that municipal bonds still offer good value , you would n't know it by the way institutional investors are rushing to dump their holdings . 
. 
as they scramble to raise cash to pay claims related to Hurricane Hugo and the Northern California earthquake . 
Fundamental factors are at work as well . 
-- even as demand tapers off . 
Mutual funds , for example , are said to be selling existing municipal bonds to raise cash to buy new issues . 
. 
as the municipal bond market rebounds . 
But traders said the market 's tone could pick up this week if New York City 's $ 787 million bond offering goes well . 
if New York City 's $ 787 million bond offering goes well . 
and expenditures are rising as tax revenue is falling . 
as tax revenue is falling . 
But he thinks investors may be overreacting to the market 's problems . 
Instead , the Treasury announced it would sell $ 2 billion of 51-day cash management bills today and said that the weekly sale of $ 15.6 billion of three-month and six-month bills will take place today , as usual , but the sale will settle tomorrow instead of Thursday . 
, but the sale will settle tomorrow instead of Thursday . 
The market also was hurt by rumors that Nippon Kangyo Kakumaru , a Japanese brokerage firm , was unloading some of the 30-year bonds it recently purchased . 
The sale , expected to close before the end of the year , also includes a manufacturing plant in Franklin Park , Ill . 
Other RJR securities also closed higher . 
after trading as low as 85 1\/4 . 
In addition , a second Part B premium to cover the cost of the new program of insurance against catastrophic illness will rise to $ 4.90 a month from $ 4 , if Congress does n't change the program . 
, if Congress does n't change the program . 
The House has voted to repeal most of the Catastrophic Coverage Act of 1988 , however , which would end the monthly catastrophic-care premium , as well as an unpopular income surtax paid by about 40 % of the wealthier Medicare beneficiaries . 
, but the surtax would be abolished . 
. 
. 
, and a company official declined further comment . 
Separately , Innopac reported a fourth-quarter loss of about C$ 2.6 million , or 18 Canadian cents a share , reflecting inventory write-downs . 
, but big institutional investors are expected to continue the practice , further roiling the stock market . 
Still , stock-index funds are expected to continue launching big programs through the market . 
because spending fueled much of the third-quarter GNP growth . 
Meanwhile , personal income edged up 0.3 % . 
But weak car sales raise questions about future demand from the auto sector . 
But the new pact will force huge debt on the new firm and could still fail to thwart rival suitor McCaw Cellular . 
as it moved quickly to take write-offs for various problems and prepare for a turnaround . 
But some analysts wonder how strong the recovery will be . 
Still , analysts said the accord does n't suggest Japan is opening up to more foreign takeovers . 
after announcing a Dutch firm is seeking to buy up to 25 % of the New Hampshire copier company . 
, thus saving Americans the headaches of pounds , shillings and pence . 
But he struck out with the decimal system of metric weights and measures the French had invented . 
Instead , Congress opted for the inches , feet and yards the colonists had brought with them . 
. 
. 
. 
General Motors , for example , uses metric terms for its automobile bodies and power trains . 
-LRB- In auto advertising , however , items such as wheelbases are still described in inches . -RRB- 
, particularly as military alliances spread world-wide . 
Still , like the auto makers , when dealing with Mr. Everyman the Pentagon sticks to the tried and true . 
. 
and company executives now expect to reach their start-up goal of 1,000 schools before the end of this year . 
Subscribers also get the Classroom Channel , which will feature ad-free educational programming similar to some public-TV shows , and the Educator 's Channel , which will offer instructional programming for teachers and school administrators and will be supported by advertising . 
and Whittle continues to negotiate with 919 districts . 
because students watching the program did n't fare particularly better on a 28-question current events quiz than a control school without the program and school absences were almost unchanged during the period when the program was being aired . 
and school absences were almost unchanged during the period when the program was being aired . 
and school absences did n't change much , '' said Mr. Bruner . 
, but there was n't reason enough to sign up . 
, but there was n't much interest . '' 
while working together to market and sell their products . '' 
That accord also called for Hewlett-Packard to buy 730,070 Octel shares in the open market within 18 months . 
In addition , Hewlett-Packard acquired a two-year option to buy an extra 10 % , of which half may be sold directly to Hewlett-Packard by Octel . 
Also shown is the closing listed market price or a dealer-to-dealer asked price of each fund 's shares , with the percentage of difference . 
. 
And the number of stocks hitting new lows far outstrips the number setting new highs . 
But why should an iffy $ 6.79 billion leveraged buy-out deal shake the foundations of the entire stock market ? 
, but analysts generally agree that the market gyrations created as the UAL plan crumbled revealed a fundamental change in investor psychology . 
as the UAL plan crumbled revealed a fundamental change in investor psychology . 
, '' says Dennis Jarrett , a market strategist at Kidder Peabody . 
and that 's scary , but all-in-all stocks are still a good place to be , they suggest . 
, but all-in-all stocks are still a good place to be , they suggest . 
He suggests , for example , that investors may have assumed that just because UAL could n't get financing , no leveraged buy-outs can get financing . 
. 
. 
if no more LBOs could be done . 
and the buyers may not get away with some of the things they 've done in the past , but deals wo n't disappear . '' 
, but deals wo n't disappear . '' 
, but because it 's a good fit . '' 
not to milk the cash flow , but because it 's a good fit . '' 
And even without deals , Mr. Connolly figures the market would remain healthy . 
He notes , for instance , that there has n't been a merger or acquisition among the 30 stocks in the Dow Jones Industrial Average since 1986 , yet that average only three weeks ago hit a record high . 
, yet that average only three weeks ago hit a record high . 
because their earnings are up and their dividends are up , '' he says . 
and their dividends are up , '' he says . 
as short-term players scramble frantically to sell stocks in a matter of minutes . 
Kidder Peabody 's Mr. Jarrett also sees some benefits to the stock market 's recent drop . 
. '' 
But he figures that at current levels the stock market is comfortably valued , even with the economy obviously slowing . 
, '' he says . 
But any chance for prices to surge above fair value lies in the speculation that accompanies a vigorous merger and buy-out business , and UAL has obviously put a damper on that . 
, and UAL has obviously put a damper on that . 
and all of this changes the arithmetic of deals , '' she says . 
, but future deals are going to be structured differently and bids probably wo n't be as high . '' 
and bids probably wo n't be as high . '' 
But that 's not the only problem for stocks . 
, but these other things have been building up more gradually , '' she says . 
and with economic data showing a clear slowing , the outlook for earnings in the fourth quarter and all of 1990 is getting worse . 
and it looks like people are questioning corporate profits as a means of support for stock prices , '' she says . 
, then this is n't a level that 's going to hold . '' 
as earnings disappointments , a sluggish economy and a fragile junk bond market continued to weigh on investors . 
and several were able to post gains , including Chevron , which rose 5\/8 to 66 3\/8 in Big Board composite trading of 2.4 million shares . 
, but several industry analysts told the Professional Investor Report they believed it was plausible that Pennzoil may be buying Chevron shares as a prelude to pushing for a restructuring of the company . 
, and Atlantic Richfield fell 1 5\/8 to 99 1\/2 . 
, and ASA Ltd. jumped 3 5\/8 to 49 5\/8 . 
Gold mining stocks traded on the American Stock Exchange also showed strength . 
, and Corona Class A gained 1\/2 to 7 1\/2 . 
after posting a third-quarter loss of $ 4.25 a share , including restructuring charges , but other important technology issues were mixed . 
, but other important technology issues were mixed . 
, and Hewlett-Packard fell 3\/8 to 49 3\/8 . 
as 2.7 million shares changed hands . 
after First Hospital failed to obtain financing for its offer . 
But investigators could confirm their theory only after the recent retrieval of a big chunk of Flight 232 's tail engine from a cornfield near the Sioux City Airport in Iowa . 
, and that the process has since been changed to decrease the chance that such flaws would occur . 
But he also pointed out that the recalls will have no impact on GE 's engine production . 
But he also pointed out that the recalls will have no impact on GE 's engine production . 
, '' said Lonnie Thompson , a research scientist at Ohio State who dug for and analyzed the ice samples . 
, researchers said , because the rates of evaporation of these oxygen atoms differ as temperatures change . 
as temperatures change . 
because they are far from oceans , which moderate temperature changes . 
But the ice-core samples are n't definitive proof that the so-called greenhouse effect will lead to further substantial global heating , Mr. Thompson acknowledged . 
because carbon dioxide prevents heat from escaping into space . 
. 
Instead , the Dunde ice-core record shows increasing temperatures from 1900 through the early 1950s , decreasing temperatures from the late 1950s through the mid-1970s , then higher temperatures again through last year . 
, then higher temperatures again through last year . 
But he said ice samples from Peru , Greenland and Antarctica all show substantial signs of warming . 
and its Houston work force has been trimmed by 40 people , or about 15 % . 
while revamping the Pentagon budget to move more than $ 450 million from foreign bases to home-state projects . 
, and -- at a time of retrenchment for the military and concern about the U.S. 's standing in the world economy -- overseas spending is most vulnerable . 
Total Pentagon requests for installations in West Germany , Japan , South Korea , the United Kingdom and the Philippines , for example , are cut by almost two-thirds , while lawmakers added to the military budget for construction in all but a dozen states at home . 
, while lawmakers added to the military budget for construction in all but a dozen states at home . 
The extra margin for bases in the U.S. enhances the power of the appropriations committees ; meanwhile , lawmakers used their positions to garner as much as six times what the Pentagon had requested for their individual states . 
. 
, but the bill was then sent back to the House to resolve the question of how to address budget limits on credit allocations for the Federal Housing Administration . 
, but the bill was then sent back to the House to resolve the question of how to address budget limits on credit allocations for the Federal Housing Administration . 
, but the underlying bill is already under attack for excesses elsewhere . 
, and as critics have awakened to these devices , the bill can seem like a wounded caribou trying to make it past ice and wolves to reach safer winter grazing . 
. 
after the budget scorekeeping is completed . 
But as much as $ 177 million , or nearly 30 % of the account , is marked for potential transfers to research , management and flight accounts that are spent out at a faster clip . For example , a House-Senate conference ostensibly increased the National Aeronautics and Space Administration budget for construction of facilities to nearly $ 592 million , or more than $ 200 million above what either chamber had previously approved . Part of the increase would provide $ 90 million toward ensuring construction of a costly solid rocket-motor facility in Mr. Whitten 's Mississippi . 
But as much as $ 177 million , or nearly 30 % of the account , is marked for potential transfers to research , management and flight accounts that are spent out at a faster clip . 
, and $ 1.3 million , earmarked by Sen. Daniel Inouye , amounts to a business subsidy under the title `` Hawaiian sugar mills job retention . '' 
, which employ an estimated 1,500 workers , according to Mr. Inouye 's office . 
When this plan met resistance , it was agreed instead to take money from HUD to subsidize needed improvements in two settling ponds for the mills , which employ an estimated 1,500 workers , according to Mr. Inouye 's office . 
. 
. 
And today , many of their children , grandchildren and great-grandchildren remain on welfare . 
In the meantime , the landowners continue receiving generous subsidies that began during New Deal days . 
Or those who choose not to farm can lease their lands and crop allotments for handsome sums . 
, but those along the Mississippi continue to prosper with holdings that were built with the sweat of men and women living in economic slavery . 
And when they were no longer needed , they were turned loose unprepared to build lives of their own . 
. 
. 
Yet the evidence that we have not hit bottom is found in the fact that we are not yet helping ourselves . 
. 
when the majority of residents , black and white , do not realize racism alienates potential employers ? 
when the vocal right-wingers and the school boards , mayors and legislators prohibit schools from teaching the two ways -LRB- abstinence or contraceptives -RRB- of decreasing teen pregnancy ? 
and somebody says , `` Aw heck , guys , nobody can do it like Japan or South Korea , '' I wish you would butt in and say , `` Hold it , fellas , why do n't we compare prices and use our own little Third World country . 
, and now that it has gotten out of hand it 's a new crusade for the media and our Democratic Congress . 
. 
, '' but when you travel to Washington , Boston , Chicago or New York , the same problems exist . 
. 
Then maybe I could stay home and have seven children and watch Oprah Winfrey , like Beulah in the article , instead of having one child and working constantly just to stay above water , like so many families in this country . 
The exploration side of the unit has recently undergone a similar overhaul , during which it also lost as many as 400 employees , a company spokesman said in response to questions . 
But since then U.S. oil production has declined and Mobil wants to focus its oil-finding efforts overseas . 
and Mobil wants to focus its oil-finding efforts overseas . 
and regional offices will become more autonomous . 
But the staffs at some of those locations will be slashed while at others the work force will be increased . 
while at others the work force will be increased . 
But on the West Coast , where profitable oil production is more likely than in the midcontinent region , the Bakersfield , Calif. , office staff of 130 will grow by 175 to 305 . For instance , employment in Denver will be reduced to 105 from 430 . 
But on the West Coast , where profitable oil production is more likely than in the midcontinent region , the Bakersfield , Calif. , office staff of 130 will grow by 175 to 305 . 
, and 8.5 % is about the best around . 
But investors looking for alternatives are n't finding it easy . 
And the stock market 's recent gyrations are a painful reminder of the dangers there . 
, '' says Washington financial planner Dennis M. Gurtz . 
There are , however , some alternatives that income-oriented investors should consider , investment advisers say . 
In particular , advisers say , investors may want to look at securities that reduce the risk that CD holders are confronting right now , of having to reinvest the proceeds of maturing short-term certificates at lower rates . 
because municipal-bond interest is exempt from federal income tax -- and from state and local taxes too , for in-state investors . 
because the issuers have put aside U.S. bonds that will be sold to pay off holders when the municipals are retired . 
when the municipals are retired . 
if they are right . 
But they will have disappointing returns or even losses if interest rates rise instead . 
if interest rates rise instead . 
But they will have disappointing returns or even losses if interest rates rise instead . 
as the maturity of the securities lengthens . 
Consider , for instance , two bond funds from Vanguard Group of Investment Cos. that were both yielding 8.6 % on a recent day . The Short Term Bond Fund , with an average maturity of 2 1\/2 years , would deliver a total return for one year of about 10.6 % if rates drop one percentage point and a one-year return of about 6.6 % if rates rise by the same amount . But , in the same circumstances , the returns would be a more extreme 14.6 % and 2.6 % for the Vanguard Bond Market Fund , with its 12 1\/2-year average maturity . 
. 
But , in the same circumstances , the returns would be a more extreme 14.6 % and 2.6 % for the Vanguard Bond Market Fund , with its 12 1\/2-year average maturity . 
if you guess right on rates , says James E. Wilson , a Columbia , S.C. , planner . 
. 
until money is withdrawn , but a 10 % penalty tax is imposed on withdrawals made before age 59 1\/2 . 
, but a 10 % penalty tax is imposed on withdrawals made before age 59 1\/2 . 
For instance , a CD-type annuity from North American Co. for Life & Health Insurance , Chicago , offers 8.8 % interest for one year or a 9 % rate for two years . 
But at age 55 , `` they may be a great deal , '' says Mr. Wilson , the Columbia , S.C. , planner . 
when rates are rising and shift out at times such as the present , when rates seem headed down . 
Still , today 's highest-yielding money funds may beat CDs over the next year even if rates fall , says Guy Witman , an editor of the Bond Market Advisor newsletter in Atlanta . 
even if rates fall , says Guy Witman , an editor of the Bond Market Advisor newsletter in Atlanta . 
because top-yielding funds currently offer yields almost 1 1\/2 percentage points above the average CD yield . 
. 
. 
after human insulin blunted critical warning signs indicating hypoglycemia , or low blood sugar , which can kill diabetics . 
However , he said officials conducting the study had n't been looking for signs of problems related to hypoglycemia unawareness . 
`` But we do n't believe there is enough of a difference to be clinically significant , '' Dr. Sobel said . 
because it has no strategy . 
and then we 'd come around and do the budget . 
and then we 'd come around and do the budget . 
until strategists come down from their ivory tower and learn to work in the real world of limited budgets and uncertain futures . 
, before finally forging the budgets needed to build and maintain the forces . 
, before finally forging the budgets needed to build and maintain the forces . 
, and each year , their end product -- the Five Year Defense Plan -- promptly melts away . 
because they assume a defense strategy depends only on goals and threats . 
Strategy , however , is about possibilities , not hopes and dreams . 
And as a result -- as the recent vote by the House to undo Mr. Cheney 's program terminations suggests -- the preservation of jobs is becoming the real goal of defense `` strategy . '' 
And as a result -- as the recent vote by the House to undo Mr. Cheney 's program terminations suggests -- the preservation of jobs is becoming the real goal of defense `` strategy . '' 
They would then develop priorities by identifying the least painful program cuts as they moved from higher to lower budgets . 
as they moved from higher to lower budgets . 
They would also identify the best way to add programs , should the budget come in at higher levels . 
The 1990 plan also assumes inflation will decline to 1.7 % by 1994 . 
if these increases do not materialize ? 
, and it reduces the baseline by $ 106 billion between 1990 and 1994 . 
Finally , Scenario 4 reduces the budget by 2 % per year for the next five years -- a total reduction of $ 287 billion . 
. 
If , for example , they choose to keep the B-2 Stealth bomber , they would have to sacrifice more and more other programs -- such as carrier battlegroups or army divisions -- as they moved toward lower budget levels . 
-- as they moved toward lower budget levels . 
But ZBB did not involve the strategic planners in the Joint Chiefs of Staff , and therefore degenerated into a bean-counting drill driven by budget politics . 
, and therefore degenerated into a bean-counting drill driven by budget politics . 
because the door will be opened to opportunistic budget cutting by an irresponsible Congress . 
, and unfortunately , there is some truth to it . 
But in the end , it must be rejected for logical as well as moral reasons . 
because acting responsibly will provoke Congress into acting irresponsibly leads to the conclusion that the Pentagon should deliberately exaggerate its needs in the national interest ; in other words , that it is justified in committing a crime -- lying to Congress -- because it is morally superior . 
; in other words , that it is justified in committing a crime -- lying to Congress -- because it is morally superior . 
-- lying to Congress -- because it is morally superior . 
. 
before we make commitments . 
. 
. 
as traders continued to dump the pound after the sudden resignation Thursday of British Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson . 
But once the pound steadied with help from purchases by the Bank of England and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York , the dollar was dragged down , traders say , by the stock-market slump that left the Dow Jones Industrial Average with a loss of 17.01 points . 
. 
. 
when there are dollar retreats . 
. 
when Mr. Lawson resigned from his six-year post because of a policy squabble with other cabinet members . 
But the market remains uneasy about Mr. Major 's policy strategy and the prospects for the pound , currency analysts contend . 
. 
. 
, '' Mr. Roberts says , but he adds that near-term losses may be small because the selling wave that followed Mr. Major 's appointment apparently has run its course . 
because the selling wave that followed Mr. Major 's appointment apparently has run its course . 
But some other analysts have a stormier forecast for the pound , particularly because Britain 's inflation is hovering at a relatively lofty annual rate of about 7.6 % and the nation is burdened with a struggling government and large current account and trade deficits . 
, particularly because Britain 's inflation is hovering at a relatively lofty annual rate of about 7.6 % and the nation is burdened with a struggling government and large current account and trade deficits . 
and the nation is burdened with a struggling government and large current account and trade deficits . 
, says Mr. Rendell . 
But such an increase , he says , could be viewed by the market as `` too little too late . '' 
because the Japanese currency has n't been purchased heavily in recent weeks , says Ms. Soares-Kemp of Credit Suisse . 
because there is no transportation for someone in a wheelchair ; to be denied employment because you are disabled . 
because you are disabled . 
A second group of three company directors , aligned with Rally 's founder James Patterson , also is seeking control of the fast-food chain . 
Otherwise , actual profit is compared with the 300-day estimate . 
, and it proceeded with a $ 10-a-share tender offer for the company . 
, but Dataproducts management considered the $ 283.7 million proposal unacceptable . 
, but it is now in the midst of a restructuring plan and management says the company is no longer for sale . 
and management says the company is no longer for sale . 
, but shortly afterward , the colony 's markets were hit hard by the October 1987 global stock crash . 
, but shortly afterward , the colony 's markets were hit hard by the October 1987 global stock crash . 
The subsequent drive to reform Hong Kong 's markets also has embroiled the interest-rate futures contract . 
But regulators this week said futures-exchange officials still have a way to go before they answer all the remaining detailed questions about the contract . 
before they answer all the remaining detailed questions about the contract . 
But securities regulators now say privately that it is n't likely to start until the first quarter of next year . 
In addition , local banks say the new contract is important in helping them offset their Hong Kong-dollar exposure . 
. 
But in the week following the 1987 stock crash , the exchange verged on collapse , and the stock and futures markets in Hong Kong were closed for four days . 
, and the stock and futures markets in Hong Kong were closed for four days . 
. 
That was also the case in the days following the June 4 massacre in Beijing , which caused a sharp drop in Hong Kong stock prices . 
, then the balance of the banking institutions will be there , '' says Mr. Gilmore , the Securities and Futures Commission official . 
, making it difficult to predict where interest rates in the colony will go . 
, while three-month Hibor hit highs above 11 % . 
, and not all claims against the exchange clearinghouse -- by those who bet the Hang Seng index would fall -- have been settled . 
And Mr. Gilmore cautions that there may be limits on how much the contract can grow because the Hong Kong dollar is n't a widely traded currency . 
because the Hong Kong dollar is n't a widely traded currency . 
if it starts trading 500 to 1,000 lots a day . 
Exchange officials also point out that Hibor futures were designed for institutions and corporations , not for the type of small individual investors who were very active in Hang Seng index futures and defaulted in the 1987 crash . 
But many bankers remain nervous , especially as the start-up of the contract continues to be delayed . 
, especially as the start-up of the contract continues to be delayed . 
Pulp , processed and miscellaneous paper sales also surged . 
, while net income is estimated at 23.500 billion yen , up from 23.031 billion yen . 
and officials could n't be reached for comment . 
, while net income was estimated at 12 billion yen , up from 11.95 billion yen . 
But Eugene L. Nowak , an analyst at Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. , forecast that the sale will bring in `` $ 200 million or substantially more . '' 
because it suggests that the company is willing to sell oil and gas assets that are n't part of its major strategic strengths . 
However , those sales were early in the field 's history , before production equipment was installed . 
However , he added that that estimate , made before extensive development drilling , currently is being reappraised . 
since the program began in April 1987 . 
Also issued were 10 billion yen of bonds due Dec. 5 , 1994 , priced at 101 1\/2 , with coupon paid in Australian dollars , via LTCB International Ltd . 
Thereafter , interest paid annually at 7.65 % . 
The World Bank also offered 100 million Swiss francs of 6 % bonds due Nov. 16 , 1999 , priced at 101 1\/4 to yield 5.83 % via Credit Suisse . 
, and the transaction will be supported by an 8 % letter of credit issued by Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank Ltd. , Chicago branch . 
when market conditions are suitable . 
, and the net exchange rate charged on my Visa account was more favorable than I obtained for traveler 's checks in any of the several banks where I converted them . 
Dresdner Bank said it will also buy all shares tendered by shareholders on the Paris Stock Exchange at the same price from today through Nov. 17 . 
In addition , the bank has an option to buy a 30.84 % stake in BIP from Societe Generale after Jan. 1 , 1990 at 1,015 francs a share . 
, while sales at supermarkets rose 6.7 % to 642 billion yen . 
. 
, but the events of the past week have certainly exposed Europe 's weaknesses , '' says Stewart Gilchrist , a director of Scottish Amicable Investment Managers in Glasgow , Scotland , which manages about # 6 billion -LRB- $ 9.63 billion -RRB- in institutional money . 
and trading problems erupted . 
But London 's problems were nothing compared with the Continent 's . 
as a software failure before opening on Manic Monday prevented trading for two days . 
The Belgian computer system finally was repaired and restarted on Tuesday of this week , with the aid of Toronto Stock Exchange officials who developed the system . 
. 
until Wall Street rallied late in the European trading day , traders say . 
But by that time , many big institutions had switched business to London . 
, and the volume of French shares rose 48 % . 
-LRB- By comparison , German domestic stock volume in Frankfurt only doubled that day . -RRB- 
. 
Rather , there increasingly is a group of international brokerage and trading firms that operate in most European financial centers -- including European giants such as Barclays Bank PLC and Deutsche Bank , as well as Merrill Lynch & Co. and Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. of the U.S. and Japan 's Nomura Securities Co . 
when it comes to deciding in which market to transact a trade . 
And senior officials of two U.S. securities houses say they switched trades in European stocks to the London market last week when they could n't unwind positions on the Continent . 
if this volume -LCB- in German stocks -RCB- were in Frankfurt rather than London , '' says Dieter Bauernfeind , head of international equity sales at Dresdner Bank in Frankfurt . 
, although they have n't decided when or by how much . 
But it 's just one of those things that happened . 
But for others , the pledges echo the promises made after the 1987 stock crash , when similar problems led many markets to develop the new systems that performed so badly last week . 
But they either did n't buy the right machines or they wasted it , '' says Fleming 's Ms. Noble . 
or they wasted it , '' says Fleming 's Ms. Noble . 
unless they are necessary and useful , '' said Zygmunt Tyszkiewicz , secretary general of the employers ' confederation Unice . 
The British government also strongly opposes the charter in its current form . 
But the cosmetic changes are n't expected to win over Britain . 
, '' a British official said , because it provides for a `` regulation of the labor market . '' 
Indeed , lower wages -- in Greece , they are a third of the EC average -- are n't enough to offset higher transport costs and lower productivity in the southern countries . 
But the Unice official said that producing a charter acceptable to both Britain and European industry is n't an unattainable goal . 
after having rebutted the action program . 
. 
, and oil properties are fetching more . 
and the squabbling within the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries seems under control for now . 
But it is high enough to prod the search for future supplies , low enough to promote consumption and , most important , steady enough for both producers and users to believe in . 
Also , the new stirrings are faint , and some question their extent . 
, and some question their extent . 
and some companies continue to shrink . 
also played havoc with the nation 's inflation rate , the trade deficit and oil users ' corporate and personal budgets . 
And consumers `` should be comfortable , '' adds W. Henson Moore , U.S. deputy secretary of energy . 
In addition , global petroleum demand has been climbing . 
, while OPEC provides security of supply . 
But `` if they walk out without any effort to resolve their problem , production could increase to 23 million or 24 million barrels a day , making for a very troublesome first quarter , '' warns Nordine Ait-Laoussine , a consultant and former Algerian OPEC delegate . 
, making for a very troublesome first quarter , '' warns Nordine Ait-Laoussine , a consultant and former Algerian OPEC delegate . 
Out here on the Querecho Plains of New Mexico , however , the mood is more upbeat ; trucks rumble along the dusty roads and burly men in hard hats sweat and swear through the afternoon sun . 
and burly men in hard hats sweat and swear through the afternoon sun . 
, but it is n't the only company with a new attitude , as it found when it went looking for a partner for the Sharpshooter . 
, as it found when it went looking for a partner for the Sharpshooter . 
when it went looking for a partner for the Sharpshooter . 
. '' 
Still , there is money to be made . 
. 
So , according to a Dun & Bradstreet Corp. survey , companies that had been refusing to spend even their very conservative budgets may loosen up before year end . 
if oil prices stay stable . 
. '' 
, and this one is beginning to turn . '' 
, although some got hit yesterday when Shearson Lehman Hutton cut its short-term investment ratings on them . 
, and for the first time in years , two oil-service companies recently went public . 
But a few new spots are opening . 
because so many roughnecks , roustabouts and others left after the crash . 
because so many roughnecks , roustabouts and others left after the crash . 
because he had started early in the morning setting up tanks at another site , just got the first raise he can remember in eight years , to $ 8.50 an hour from $ 8 . 
, then one time for two to three weeks and another two to three weeks , '' he says . 
Butch McCarty , who sells oil-field equipment for Davis Tool Co. , is also busy . 
, then surviving the bust running an Oklahoma City convenience store . 
But it wo n't be a boom again . 
But that was off less than at midyear , when completions lagged by 27.1 % . 
And the number of rigs active in the U.S. is inching up . 
After 11:30 a.m. or so `` we have them standing and waiting , '' she says , as she whips out orders for hamburgers and the daily special -LRB- grilled roast beef , cheese and jalapeno pepper sandwich on whole wheat , potato salad , baked beans and pudding , plus coffee or iced tea . Price : $ 4.50 -RRB- . 
Two other men also were charged with participating in the operation . 
Geno M. Apicella , 27 , of Los Angeles , and Terrell N. Madison , 27 , of Hawthorne , were also charged with participating in the conspiracy . 
But it would probably increase the amount of cash that debt-ridden Bond Corp. would earn from the transaction . 
if it exercises the option , the corporate regulators said in a statement . 
In particular , I do not find the fact that your group of pros ' monthly selections of four stocks outperforms the market in general to be inconsistent with market efficiency . 
and then sold those one month later , purchasing the four new pro picks , and repeated this process for the year would have accumulated $ 166,537 , excluding account dividends , taxes and commissions . 
In contrast , an investor holding the Dow Jones portfolio over the year would have accumulated only $ 127,446 . 
Thus , rather than seeing the excess returns to the pro-selected portfolio as being abnormal , I see those returns as simply compensations for taking on added risk . 
, as I am sure your pros do . 
Moreover , your hypothetical investor has forsaken the gains to be had in reducing risk by diversifying his portfolio . 
when he reports that your staff of dart throwers would have accumulated only $ 112,383 by randomly selecting four new stocks to be held in a portfolio each month . 
For example , your pickers ' recommendations for the coming month are , on average , 22.5 % riskier than holding the market portfolio according to Value Line 's Beta estimates . 
and another was shot and killed . 
But then , he says , they put two loaded pistols to his temple and demanded he open the safe . 
But then , he says , they put two loaded pistols to his temple and demanded he open the safe . 
. 
. 
`` But we 're just too nervous . '' 
The robberies also have set off a controversy involving the airlines . 
when they 're used . 
But airlines say it would be too expensive and cause too many delays if they started using computerized scanners to check tickets at the gate . 
if they started using computerized scanners to check tickets at the gate . 
Specifically , the law says the rates must closely reflect what the company 's actual expenses have been to replace damaged cars . 
. 
, then they 've been charging 300 % more than what is reasonable , '' says Steve Gardner , an assistant state attorney general in Texas . 
But Hertz points out that at least it 's now charging only $ 3.95 a day in Texas , while some competitors are charging $ 6.99 . 
, while some competitors are charging $ 6.99 . 
Before Jets Even Land 
. 
because he or she has been working 20 straight hours . 
because the FAA does n't have any rules on duty time for flight attendants ; by contrast , it strictly restricts duty time for pilots and air traffic controllers , usually to a maximum of 10 consecutive hours . 
; by contrast , it strictly restricts duty time for pilots and air traffic controllers , usually to a maximum of 10 consecutive hours . 
For instance , tired flight attendants might not react quickly enough during an emergency evacuation . 
and then we expect them to be heroes if there 's an evacuation . '' 
and then we expect them to be heroes if there 's an evacuation . '' 
if there 's an evacuation . '' 
when it is not ? 
But in any event -- and this is the important point -- tax `` payments '' on capital gains will be lower with indexation than under current law , even though the tax `` rate '' is the same under both systems . 
. 
, even though the tax `` rate '' is the same under both systems . 
But what is really significant is the indexation of capital gains after 1991 . 
, and the taxation of inflation-created capital gains is confiscation . 
when they decide whether to save or how to invest ? 
But the chief rule-making body for accountants backed off one part of its original proposal made earlier this year that would have required a breakdown of certain balance-sheet items related to off-balance sheet instruments . 
Under the initial proposal , for example , banks would have been required to disclose that portion of allowances for loan losses that reflects specific letters of credit for which customers had defaulted . 
if the outside party involved in the instrument failed to perform , and the company 's policy for requiring collateral or other security for the instrument . 
But he noted that the initial effective date of the earlier proposal had been delayed by six months . 
Poughkeepsie also expects to post a one-time charge of $ 8.3 million , resulting in a net loss for the third quarter . 
Additionally , the bank is increasing its loan-loss reserves for the third quarter by $ 8.5 million before taxes . 
The bank also said its effort would continue past the Nov. 1 deadline set in that agreement and that the litigation between the two sides might resume as a result . 
and that the litigation between the two sides might resume as a result . 
and that the litigation between the two sides might resume as a result . 
because the company split itself in a restructuring . 
The vaccine , however , causes allergic reactions that can be fatal . 
. 
Unfortunately , the toxin is also poisonous . 
. 
, which would then produce a nonvirulent version of the toxin . 
, but the toxin did n't induce immunity to whooping cough . 
The scientists then took the five toxin genes and triggered a mutation in the one gene that caused virulence . 
Then , using a new technique -LRB- called homologous recombination -RRB- for introducing genes into cells , they transferred all five genes to bacteria closely related to the pertussis organism . 
But the genes were accompanied by a piece of DNA , called a promoter , that turns the genes on . 
Unless , of course , it happens to be run by the Rothschilds . 
Yet the Rothschilds do n't deny an emotional element to the decision . 
and later sent his four sons to London , Paris , Vienna and Naples to begin the bank 's expansion during the early 19th century . 
, and the family 's banking activities focused on London and Paris . 
Yet the chief reason for the closure , he says , was rooted in a family tradition that would n't allow a bank to bear the Rothschild name without a Rothschild in its management . 
, '' explains the 72-year-old patriarch , `` so we had to close the bank . '' 
. 
as the Nazis grabbed countries , confiscating the family 's property in the process . 
, although it might not mean as much to German banking as it means to us , '' says Baron David de Rothschild , Elie 's younger cousin and a partner in Rothschild & Cie . Banque in Paris . 
Indeed , the competition is n't greatly concerned . 
if they did n't come to Frankfurt in time for 1992 , and they bring an interesting tradition . 
, and they bring an interesting tradition . 
But the market really is n't going to be stood on its head , '' said a banker at one of Frankfurt 's Big Three banks . 
Instead , it is to seek out corporate financing business and sell investment products on behalf of the family 's mainstay banking units : N M Rothschild & Sons Ltd. in London , Rothschild & Cie. in Paris and Rothschild Bank AG in Zurich . 
because , he says , `` When the Rothschilds called , I could n't resist . '' 
. '' 
as European industry restructures ahead of 1992 . 
Yet the group 's limited resources makes it a niche player . 
, '' concedes Baron David de Rothschild , `` but we feel we have some cards to play . '' 
`` But we do make exceptions , '' says a smiling Baron Elie de Rothschild , `` especially if they are very young and have very rich parents . 
, '' says a smiling Baron Elie de Rothschild , `` especially if they are very young and have very rich parents . 
. 
. 
, and that derivatives make it a more liquid market . '' 
But increasingly , people are questioning that view , and the critics include some of the country 's most successful investors . 
, and the critics include some of the country 's most successful investors . 
And Mario Gabelli , another star in the investing world , says , `` My gut says the negatives of futures and synthetics far outweigh the benefits . '' 
-- as many have already done . 
And those who remain , he says `` will demand a higher return and over time raise the cost of capital to companies . '' 
. 
before they buy or sell stocks . 
. 
Then , in the space of a 20-minute coffee break , the average rallied almost all of the way back . On Tuesday , for instance , the Dow Jones Industrial Average plunged 80 points in little more than an hour . 
Then , in the space of a 20-minute coffee break , the average rallied almost all of the way back . 
and then we could get back to investing . '' 
and then we could get back to investing . '' 

But stock-index futures have plenty of support . 
And , defenders say , few people complain about futures when stock prices are rising . 
when stock prices are rising . 
, a decade before the advent of futures . 
, he says . 
And traders say that futures have become an accepted part of the financial landscape . 
. '' 
By contrast , average dollar volume on the Big Board last year was $ 5.3 billion . 
. 
. 
And although criticism of futures generally comes from Wall Street , one Chicago futures trader notes that brokerage firms rely on futures as hedging tools when they buy and sell big blocks of stocks from institutions . 
. 
when they buy and sell big blocks of stocks from institutions . 
By contrast , an investor in stocks must put up 50 % in cash . 
Thus , they say , futures inhibit the basic purpose of the stock market : to accurately price securities so that capital and investment flows where it 's needed most . 
so that capital and investment flows where it 's needed most . 
`` It took away the need to know the bad third-quarter report of IBM , for example , '' Mr. Kegler says . 
Of course , portfolio trading -- the increasingly common practice of buying or selling baskets of actual stocks -- also treats stocks as homogenous commodities . 
But owning index futures is n't the same as owning the underlying stocks . 
, because they own a share of corporate earnings , which can grow and boost stock prices . 
Futures , on the other hand , are a zero sum game -- a market for making side bets about the direction of stock prices . 
so they can begin negotiations with Brussels on how to modify the pact . 
and the domestic airline got to fly to five cities outside of France under the flag of Air France . 
. 
But the Appellate Division of State Supreme Court held that federal law did n't pre-empt the states from such a prosecution . 
The No. 1 U.S. auto maker then wrote Jaguar that it intends `` to go to that 15 % '' level once it wins the U.S. clearance to go beyond $ 15 million , a Jaguar spokesman said yesterday . 
once it wins the U.S. clearance to go beyond $ 15 million , a Jaguar spokesman said yesterday . 
But an all-out bidding war between the world 's top auto giants for Britain 's leading luxury-car maker seems unlikely . 
And powerful political pressures may convince the Conservative government to keep its so-called golden share , which limits any individual holding to 15 % , until the restriction expires on Dec. 31 , 1990 . 
, until the restriction expires on Dec. 31 , 1990 . 
, but it is the magic share . '' 
. 
if both the government and Jaguar shareholders agree to relax the anti-takeover barrier prematurely . 
because many shareholders are speculators keen for a full bid or institutional investors unhappy over Jaguar management 's handling of its current financial difficulties . 
The government probably would n't give in readily to a hostile foray by Ford , however . 
. 
Politics also influences the government 's thinking on the anti-takeover restriction . 
, nor can the government easily back down on promised protection for a privatized company while it proceeds with controversial plans to privatize most of Britain 's water and electricity industries . 
while it proceeds with controversial plans to privatize most of Britain 's water and electricity industries . 
Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher might , however , be receptive to any request by Jaguar Chairman Sir John Egan for the restriction 's early removal to let GM amass more than 15 % or mount a friendly suitor bid against Ford . 
In the end , Sir John -- rather than the government or Jaguar shareholders -- may hold the key that unlocks the golden share . 
as reduced production in the country 's automotive industry has resulted in weakened demand for rolling bearings . 
as brokerage firms had predicted a pretax profit of 1.74 billion to 1.86 billion kronor . 
, but times have changed , even in Utah . 
, but those around him have . 
. 
. 
Furthermore , his actions imply that it is too damaging or costly for society to provide jobs through power-plant construction , coal mining or to build roads for public safety because of the adverse impact on the environment , but it is just fine and dandy for him to transform a mountain high in the Wasatch Range into a ski resort . 
, but it is just fine and dandy for him to transform a mountain high in the Wasatch Range into a ski resort . 
. 
But the two-day trip still has managed to fuel controversy over his administration 's policies in Central America . 
But the two-day trip still has managed to fuel controversy over his administration 's policies in Central America . 
In addition , they argue he wo n't help Washington 's standing in the region by trumpeting the U.S. commitment to democracy less than a month after his administration played an ineffectual role in the failed coup attempt in Panama . 
less than a month after his administration played an ineffectual role in the failed coup attempt in Panama . 
because it will legitimize people like Daniel Ortega , '' says Curtin Windsor , who served as U.S. ambassador to Costa Rica during the Reagan administration . 
But Costa Rican officials argue that the recent drop in coffee prices , combined with the country 's continuing struggle to reinvigorate its economy , make the support as necessary as ever . 
and we need a little more help to get to the other side , '' said Rodrigo Sotela , an economic affairs specialist at the Costa Rican Embassy in Washington . 
However , peace efforts by Costa Rican President Oscar Arias have n't always helped the country 's cause in Washington . 
And more recently , he insisted on signing a five-nation agreement intended to disarm Nicaragua 's U.S.-backed Contra rebels faster than the Bush administration would prefer . 
. 
The administration also made clear its continuing distate for the leftist Nicaraguan government in recent days , endorsing a package of electoral aid to the Nicaraguan opposition , renewing the U.S. trade embargo against the country and continuing to complain that the country supports rebel groups in the region . 
Officials also insist Mr. Bush will use the trip to highlight his own initiatives for pushing democracy in the region , fighting illegal drugs and assisting the less developed countries . 
But we still see this as an opportunity to discuss many , many very important issues . 
But we still see this as an opportunity to discuss many , many very important issues . 
And like college radicals everywhere , they are talking about a demonstration -- where protesters would gather quietly near the science building and raise their hands , classroom style . 
and they are n't going to take it anymore , at least not without trying a few really neat ideas first . 
, but then everyone would have said , ` Oh , you mean the nerd-and-geek club , ' '' Leonid Fridman , SONG 's graduate-student adviser , told 19 attendees at the club 's inaugural meeting earlier this month . 
, but then everyone would have said , ` Oh , you mean the nerd-and-geek club , ' '' Leonid Fridman , SONG 's graduate-student adviser , told 19 attendees at the club 's inaugural meeting earlier this month . 
But SONG founder Jeremy Kahn , a Harvard junior , thinks of nerds and geeks more as `` nonconformists , '' albeit with a studious bent . 
when they have an urge to delay studying . 
So Mr. Kahn says high priority is being given to creating a computerized matchmaking service `` where instead of being matched for eye color , you could be matched for similar intellectual interests . '' 
`` I 'm a math major , but I want to know about psychobiology . Hopefully , I 'd find someone in psychobiology who wanted to know more about mathematics . '' 
, but I want to know about psychobiology . 
Meanwhile , finding a volunteer to write the computer program is n't a problem . 
, and the banks must wait at least 30 days before closing the purchase . 
before closing the purchase . 
Mr. Russo , 38 years old , previously was first vice president , public affairs and advertising , at the banking unit . 
So the scramble is on for lighter crudes globally , and for natural gas in the U.S. . 
Venezuela has also earmarked $ 200 million in new money for light-crude exploration . 
And some oil companies are trying to lock in future supplies . 
because they are often followed in Europe . 
as it prepares to spend some $ 1.3 billion on upgrading its refineries , he says . 
Similarly , a group of companies led by Chevron Corp. has been unable to pump oil found off the California coast in the early 1980s . 
But the push for cleaner fuels is increasing the attractiveness of natural gas . 
, but the impetus is to get the gas to the marketplace , '' says Richard Poole , senior scout for Santa Fe International . 
. 
They also address such taboo subjects as the likelihood of unemployment and high inflation , and recommend ways to soften the social consequences . 
. 
. 
For example , the proposed overhaul of prices -- an extremely sensitive political topic -- is far more precise than the vague plans announced by Mr. Gorbachev in 1987 and later dropped . 
and later dropped . 
But the proposals also display political savvy , couching some of the most controversial ideas in cautious language so as not to alienate powerful conservatives in the government who stand to lose out if they are implemented . 
But the proposals also display political savvy , couching some of the most controversial ideas in cautious language so as not to alienate powerful conservatives in the government who stand to lose out if they are implemented . 
if they are implemented . 
. 
Instead , they map out a strategy in several phases from now until 1995 . 
, and free-market prices introduced for most wholesale trade and some retail trade . 
, but luxury and imported items , including food , would be sold at market prices . 
when referring to the fate of the two powerful economic institutions that seem likely to oppose such sweeping plans : the State Planning Committee , known as Gosplan , and the State Committee for Material Supply , or Gossnab . 
But it hints strongly that both organizations would increasingly lose their clout as the changes , particularly the introduction of wholesale trade and the breakup of state monopolies , take effect . 
as the changes , particularly the introduction of wholesale trade and the breakup of state monopolies , take effect . 
When my car does n't start ; If gadgets at home do n't work I coolly take them apart . 
. 
, But it 's nice when people say I appear mechanically inclined . 
when people say I appear mechanically inclined . 
as long as there are TV program listings . 
, though for 38 years their lives had been intertwined in a way peculiar to the sports world . 
But one recent day , they became much closer . 
But his is a story about a hero in an era of sports anti-heroes , and about what Babe Ruth , Mr. Engelken reminds us , once called `` the only real game in the world . '' 
To Mr. Engelken , it is also a story `` about love , because I 'm blessed to have a wife who still thinks her slightly eccentric husband 's 50th birthday deserves the ultimate present . '' 
, because I 'm blessed to have a wife who still thinks her slightly eccentric husband 's 50th birthday deserves the ultimate present . '' 
, and now it had come to this : a battle between the two for the National League pennant -- down to the last inning of the last game , no less . 
-RCB- as Bobby Thomson advanced to the plate . '' 
as Ralph Branca , again on the mound , stared down the batter . 
and then , with a crack of the bat , was sent rocketing back into the lower leftfield stands . 
And Bobby Thomson was made a legend . 
when he heard the famous Russ Hodges radio broadcast -- the one that concluded with Mr. Hodges shouting , over and over , `` The Giants win the pennant , the Giants win the pennant ! '' 
, and the Polo Grounds , located under Coogan 's Bluff in upper Manhattan , was replaced by a public-housing project . 
before retiring and going into paper-goods sales . 
, but he took with him enduring memories of the homer of 1951 . 
. '' 
, though unwitting friends assumed he was the namesake of the poet . 
And when Mr. Engelken 's sister , Martha , who was born two days before the home run , reached her 25th birthday , Mr. Engelken wrote his sports hero to tell him of the coincidence of events . 
. 
since I hit that home run to celebrate your birth , '' it read . 
And on Mr. Engelken 's 40th birthday , his wife bought a book detailing the big homer and sent it off to Mr. Thomson to be autographed . 
, and Mrs. Engelken went to get her papers . 
`` And there he was , '' recalls Mr. Engelken . 
And when Mr. Engelken asked him why he took time off from work for somebody he did n't even know , Bobby Thomson replied : `` You know , Albert , if you have the chance in life to make somebody this happy , you have an obligation to do it . '' 
. '' 
. '' 
But his fans , to his constant amazement , never let him forget the famous four-bagger . 
But when Betsy Engelken wrote him , saying she could stop near his New Jersey home , it seemed different . 
. 
, just to make sure no detail was missed . 
But who knows ? You might meet up with him at that bank of telephone booths just off Exit 10 of the New Jersey Turnpike . 
. 
and building circulation is an expensive undertaking , '' said John Macfarlane , the paper 's publisher . 
, but Roy Mac-Laren , chairman of CB Media , a closely held concern that publishes two business magazines , said his company would take a close look at the newspaper . 
while disposing of `` chronically under-performing '' assets . 
, while reaching joint venture and acquisition agreements in other areas . 
while operating profit in the engineering materials segment rose 2 % . 
However , the company 's petroleum services segment , while profitable , was hurt by high financing costs associated with the company 's buy-out of a 50 % stake in Eastman Christensen Co. from Texas Eastern Corp. last June . 
. 
, the report said , and 10 % of the population owned 65 % of the land devoted to housing . 
Meanwhile , the government 's Land Bureau reports that only about a third of Korean families own their own homes . 
if this situation is n't corrected , '' he adds . 
In fact , during the past three months there have been several demonstrations at the office complex where the Land Bureau is housed , and at the National Assembly , demanding the government put a stop to real-estate speculation . 
before the full scope of the penalties takes effect . 
But opposition legislators and others calling for help for South Korea 's renters say the proposed changes do n't go far enough to make it possible for ordinary people to buy a home . 
But others , large landowners , real-estate developers and business leaders , say the government 's proposals are intolerable . 
But , he adds , the constitution empowers the government to impose some controls , to mitigate the shortage of land . 
-- and that as little as 1.5 % of that is used for business . 
The Ministry of Finance , as a result , has proposed a series of measures that would restrict business investment in real estate even more tightly than restrictions aimed at individuals . 
But Mrs. Park acknowledges that even if the policies work to slow or stop speculation , apartment prices are unlikely to go down . 
. 
. 
He said the ordinance also will benefit the mentally retarded . 
, but it has not been sufficiently effective , because , unfortunately , it came too late . 
, because , unfortunately , it came too late . 
Then , when it would have been easier to resist them , nothing was done and my brother was murdered by the drug mafias three years ago . 
and my brother was murdered by the drug mafias three years ago . 
and my brother was murdered by the drug mafias three years ago . 
And only last week the newspaper Vanguardia Liberal in the city of Bucaramanga was bombed , and its installations destroyed . 
, and its installations destroyed . 
, and advertisers are intimidated . 
. 
The American people and their government also woke up too late to the menace drugs posed to the moral structure of their country . 
. 
, and sophisticated and powerful communications equipment have been seized . 
, and a large number of vehicles and launches has been confiscated . 
The military has also captured enormous arsenals of powerful and sophisticated weapons , explosives and other war-like materiel . 
and public opinion decisively supports the government and the army -- but , on the other hand , none of the key drug barons have been captured . 
-- but , on the other hand , none of the key drug barons have been captured . 
-- but , on the other hand , none of the key drug barons have been captured . 
Drug money has also gone to buy expensive cars , airplanes , launches and nightclubs where drugs are consumed . 
But most of the drug money is kept in investments and in financial institutions outside Colombia . 
In fact , the cooperation of those financial institutions is essential to the success of the drug battle . 
As a result , Colombia will earn $ 500 million less from its coffee this year than last . 
, and this tempts them to contemplate substituting coca crops for coffee . 
, while 50,000 residents have no homes at all . 
, and the city faces contract negotiations with all major municipal unions next year . 
. 
, but at least Mr. Dinkins knows what to expect from it . 
. 
As the campaign hits the home stretch , however , voters still have very little idea what they can expect from him . 
. 
. 
if he wins the mayoralty on Nov. 7 . 
, and they wonder who will be advising him . 
? 
, or will he tilt toward the real-estate interests that have funneled money into his campaign ? 
But Mr. Dinkins has stumbled in the past two weeks over his campaign 's payments to a black activist who is a convicted kidnapper , and over his handling of a stock sale to his son . 
Polls also have recorded some slippage in Mr. Dinkins 's support among Jewish voters , and citywide projections now put his lead at between four and 20 percentage points . 
, and citywide projections now put his lead at between four and 20 percentage points . 
, but I can assure you I will not , '' he says . 
But city officials say tax revenues are lagging . 
And after a decade of explosive job growth on Wall Street , a period of contraction is under way . 
, but that wo n't be enough . 
if there is a recession . 
. 
, but their solution to everything will be to spend more money , and he wo n't have any money . '' 
, and he wo n't have any money . '' 
But even in his front-runner campaign , he has shown signs of the indecisiveness and confusion that some say has plagued his tenure as Manhattan borough president -- and might hinder him as mayor . 
before Mr. Dinkins faced the media . 
until the stock story broke . 
Mr. Dinkins also has failed to allay Jewish voters ' fears about his association with the Rev. Jesse Jackson , despite the fact that few local non-Jewish politicians have been as vocal for Jewish causes in the past 20 years as Mr. Dinkins has . 
But his chance to become deputy mayor under Mayor Abraham Beame , a plan boosted by Mr. Sutton , was squandered because of Mr. Dinkins 's failure -- still largely unexplained -- to file income tax returns for four years running . 
Later , Mr. Dinkins became more deeply indebted to Mr. Sutton and other city pols , including then-City Council President Paul O'Dwyer , when they helped him get appointed city clerk , a largely ceremonial post responsible for the city 's marriage bureau , among other things . 
, when they helped him get appointed city clerk , a largely ceremonial post responsible for the city 's marriage bureau , among other things . 
, and David said , ` Who will run for borough president ? ' And I said , ` You will . ' '' 
, and David said , ` Who will run for borough president ? ' And I said , ` You will . ' '' 
? ' And I said , ` You will . ' '' 
But the guy is so personally decent , people tend to forget that . '' 
before finally getting elected borough president in 1985 . 
before finally getting elected borough president in 1985 . 
But by most accounts , he made little of the post and was best known among city politicians for his problems making up his mind on matters before the city 's Board of Estimate , the body that votes on crucial budget and land-use matters . 
as Mr. Dinkins would march his staff out of board meetings and into his private office to discuss , en masse , certain controversial proposals . 
But board members say he took so long to decide how to vote that by the time he decided , it was too late to try to draw other members to his position . 
if he made up his mind faster . '' 
, '' Mr. Ferrer admits , but he maintains that he did n't delay his support of Mr. Dinkins and that he backs the Democratic candidate enthusiastically . 
and that he backs the Democratic candidate enthusiastically . 
, concerned that Mr. Dinkins was setting the wrong tone for coming contract negotiations with city employees . 
When he later sided with striking hospital workers , some allies cringed a little more , concerned that Mr. Dinkins was setting the wrong tone for coming contract negotiations with city employees . 
Then , two days before receiving an endorsement from environmental groups , Mr. Dinkins promised he would issue a three-year moratorium on construction of garbage-incinerator plants . 
. 
-- who has endorsed Mr. Dinkins -- because the city faces a garbage crisis and has already spent $ 5 million planning for an incinerator that would be scrapped under Mr. Dinkins 's proposal . 
. 
And he favors a more cooperative approach toward the neighboring states of New Jersey and Connecticut in the battle over companies thinking of moving employees out of New York City . 
But Mr. Dinkins 's economic planks do n't seem to bother the business community , where he draws significant support . 
, but when it comes down to it , he can be reasonable . '' 
. '' 
But as the Dinkins campaign hit tough times this month , Andrew Cuomo , the politically seasoned son of the New York governor , is also said to have taken a more active role on strategy . 
. 
But as the Dinkins campaign hit tough times this month , Andrew Cuomo , the politically seasoned son of the New York governor , is also said to have taken a more active role on strategy . 
. 
But Lincoln Center President Nathan Leventhal , who would head a Dinkins transition team , is more mainstream , as is real-estate executive Anthony Gliedman , another insider . 
Mr. Dinkins also has said he would receive economic advice from a board that would include American Express Co. chairman James D. Robinson III , investment banker Felix Rohatyn , leveraged-buy-out specialist Reginald Lewis and attorney Joseph Flom . 
Some business leaders and others also believe that Mr. Dinkins would place significant responsibility in the hands of a deputy mayor with a strong administrative background . 
Then there are Mr. Dinkins 's old-time Harlem colleagues , such as U.S. Rep. Rangel , former Deputy Mayor Paterson and Mr. Sutton . 
. '' 
But Mr. Dinkins 's sense of pragmatism often comes across more as an insider 's determination not to upset the political apple cart . 
when asked whether , as mayor , he plans on reforming the political `` fiefdoms '' that perpetuate the monumental ineffectiveness of New York 's school system . 
`` In the end , I think David will be judged for being David . 
when the house lurched two feet off its foundation during last week 's earthquake . 
as she slogs through the steady afternoon rain , is a claims adjuster with Aetna Life & Casualty . 
so their clients can find temporary living quarters , buy food , replace lost clothing , repair broken water heaters , and replaster walls . 
But she asks a workman toting the bricks from the lawn to give her a boost through an open first-floor window . 
. 
. 
, but you have to . 
. '' 
when resources in the field already were stretched . 
. 
. 
, even before a client called or faxed in a claim . 
For example , officials at Walnut Creek office learned that the Amfac Hotel near the San Francisco airport , which is insured by Aetna , was badly damaged when they saw it on network television news . 
when they saw it on network television news . 
But they must also assign a price to each of these items as well as to floors , wallcoverings , roofing and siding , to come up with a total value for a house . 
But they must also assign a price to each of these items as well as to floors , wallcoverings , roofing and siding , to come up with a total value for a house . 
. 
and then collapsed into its basement . 
He also is working with a real-estate agent to help find them an apartment to rent while their home is being built . 
while their home is being built . 
But such skills were alien to Toni Johnson . 
, if she was interested in a job that would constantly challenge her . 
as she investigated what remained of an old Victorian house torched by an arsonist . 
. 
after winding up her chores there , the house begins to creak and sway . 
, and it makes her uneasy . 
. 
. 
`` And you did n't want me to buy earthquake insurance , '' says Mrs. Hammack , reaching across the table and gently tapping his hand . 
, and high deductibles mean it generally pays only when there is a catastrophe . 
only when there is a catastrophe . 
So , many Californians believe they can get by without it . 
, but nothing was severely damaged . 
Last Sunday , Ms. Johnson finally got a chance to water her plants , but stopped abruptly . 
when there are people in Watsonville who do n't have fresh water to drink . '' 
. 
But it has been an open question whether Mr. Sikes , an extraordinarily cautious man , would continue pushing deregulation at the FCC in the face of what is likely to be great political pressure . 
Then by a separate 4-0 vote , it chose the narrowest possible grounds to strike down a different discount plan , called Tariff 15 , that AT&T offered to Holiday Corp . 
. 
But the agency specifically did n't rule whether AT&T had the right to match offers by competitors if that means giving discounts not generally available to other phone users . 
But the agency specifically did n't rule whether AT&T had the right to match offers by competitors if that means giving discounts not generally available to other phone users . 
if that means giving discounts not generally available to other phone users . 
Indeed , Joe Nacchio , AT&T 's vice president for business-communications services , said AT&T offered a similar Tariff 15 discount to Resort Condominium International , of Indianapolis , to meet another MCI bid . 
since competition has increased . 
But MCI , of Washington , was displeased with the FCC decision concerning Tariff 12 , arguing that `` AT&T can not be allowed to flaunt FCC rules . '' 
Separately , AT&T filed a countersuit against MCI accusing it of misleading consumers through allegedly `` false and deceptive '' advertising . 
. 
So the impact on the $ 950 billion mutual fund industry as a whole probably will be slight . 
But tremors are likely in the junk-bond market , which has helped to finance the takeover boom of recent years . 
-- then go back to normal , '' says Mr. Litvack . 
Still , two-thirds of the outflow has been steered into other Vanguard portfolios , says Brian Mattes , a vice president . 
, as fat interest payments barely managed to offset declining prices . 
; and the T. Rowe Price fund edged up 0.66 % . 
if they expand their selling to the securities of less-creditworthy borrowers . 
And then , asset values of the funds could plunge more than they have so far . 
And then , asset values of the funds could plunge more than they have so far . 
The U.S. unit also firmed against other currencies on the back of sterling 's tumble , as market participants switched out of pounds . 
, as market participants switched out of pounds . 
The pound also dropped precipitously against the mark , falling below the key 2.90-mark level to 2.8956 marks from 2.9622 marks late Wednesday . 
Indeed , only hours earlier , Mrs. Thatcher had called Mr. Lawson 's economic policies `` sound '' and said she has `` always supported '' him . 
and , in the meantime , sterling could trend downward in volatile trade . 
and , in the meantime , sterling could trend downward in volatile trade . 
But Mr. Foley predicted few economic policy changes ahead , commenting that Mr. Major shares `` a very similar view of the world '' with Mr. Lawson . 
Bob Chandross , chief economist at Lloyds Bank in New York , also noted that the pound 's sharp decline is pegged more to uncertainty in the market than a vision of altered United Kingdom economic policies . 
, Mr. Chandross concluded . 
Also announcing his resignation Thursday was Alan Walters , Mrs. Thatcher 's economic adviser and Mr. Lawson 's nemesis . 
The Fed 's move , however , only proved a stopgap to the pound 's slide and the Fed intervened for a second time at around $ 1.5825 , according to New York traders . 
and the Fed intervened for a second time at around $ 1.5825 , according to New York traders . 
Meanwhile , dollar trading was relatively uninspired throughout the session , according to dealers , who noted that Thursday 's release of the preliminary report on the U.S. third-quarter gross national product was something of a nonevent . 
and 2.2 million will be sold by Healthdyne , via Smith Barney , Harris Upham & Co . 
and 334,774 will be offered by holders , via Alex . Brown & Sons Inc. , Hambrecht & Quist Inc. and Wessels , Arnold & Henderson . 
and 496,116 shares are to be sold by holders , via Morgan Stanley & Co. and Hambrecht & Quist . 
, '' says Mr. Boren , and indeed by now ridiculous may be the only way to describe how the U.S. decides to take -- or rather , not to take -- covert action . 
, '' says Mr. Boren , and indeed by now ridiculous may be the only way to describe how the U.S. decides to take -- or rather , not to take -- covert action . 
. 
But the broader truth is more complicated -- and dismaying . 
until Mr. Bush told him privately at the White House last week . 
. 
But in 1989 most senators have other ideas . 
So the administration dropped it . 
, but he does concede that Congress has made mistakes . 
, '' he says . 
But even Mr. Boren defends congressional oversight . 
only when there 's a `` consensus . '' 
, though he implies it means a bipartisan majority . 
Because it had bipartisan support . '' 
if `` consensus '' had been required . 
But would n't a president who acted despite Senate objections be taking grave political risks ? 
`` But that is something the president ought to know before he goes ahead . '' 
before he goes ahead . '' 
-- if every senator shared the principles of Mr. Boren . 
But it 's just as plausible to argue that if even David Boren can get mired in this sort of mess , the problem goes beyond legal interpretation . 
. 
because we 've seen too many abuses of executive power . 
But Panama illustrates that their substitute is a system that produces an absurd gridlock . 
. 
, when my views and actions were deemed unsettling by a timid , small-town employer . 
Yet when my youngest child died two years ago , I buried him in the church cemetery of a small Missouri town . 
. 
So after all , even the bitterest critic of rural exclusivity harbors a continuing yearning for those scarce , rural virtues thought to exist amid fields , forests and country lanes . 
as Finnish shipyards remained profitable long after rivals collapsed all over Europe . 
long after rivals collapsed all over Europe . 
But if , as many now fear , Waertsilae Marine joins the ranks of failed shipyards it might turn out to be remembered most as a blemish on Finland 's international reputation . 
. 
, but that Carnival may have to pay up to 25 % more to get the second and third ships . 
, even though it 's not clear whether they will actually be built . 
. 
However , some bankers cited possible parallels between the Waertsilae Marine case and the collapse of Norway 's state-owned Kongsberg Vappenfabrikk AS two years ago . 
because they incorrectly believed the company 's debt carried implicit state guarantees . 
Moreover , state-owned Finnish companies lacking formal state guarantees could face greater difficulty raising funds in international financial markets , bankers say . 
The government , in turn , guaranteed financing to complete the order backlog and took control of the board . 
, and thus ensure Finland 's survival as a shipbuilding nation . 
when the parent Waertsilae concern pulled out at the last minute . 
But the bankers got cold feet recently as government officials complained they had been misled about the shipyard 's actual financial condition , and hinted the credit guarantees might be withdrawn . 
as government officials complained they had been misled about the shipyard 's actual financial condition , and hinted the credit guarantees might be withdrawn . 
Then , in a boardroom showdown , state-appointed directors voted to file for bankruptcy , apparently under instructions from Finland 's Industry Minister Ilkka Suominen . 
as Waertsilae Marine 's losses ballooned to more than double the figure estimated in August . 
before any concrete result is announced , people familiar with them said . 
But there appear to be few , if any , suitors . 
Indeed , the potential losses make any rescue scheme unlikely unless the politicians once again change tack and agree to pick up the bill , analysts said . 
unless the politicians once again change tack and agree to pick up the bill , analysts said . 
In addition , the company called its 12 7\/8 % senior subordinated notes due 1994 , with an aggregate principal amount of $ 200 million , for redemption on Dec. 15 . 
In addition , GM 's Truck & Bus Group said slow sales are forcing it to close its Detroit assembly plant the week beginning Monday . 
and about 450 workers will be affected by the closing . 
, and sterling now is under something of a cloud . '' 
after the resignations were announced . 
, and the 7.6 % annual inflation rate is by far the highest in the European Community . 
. 
The company , which also will omit its second-half dividend , did n't specify the size . 
But company insiders estimated that the loss could approach the equivalent of $ 10 million . 
after a proposed leveraged buy-out of the airline fell through . 
But after trading losses in the mid-October market jolts here , many people will be lucky to have jobs at all , executives predict . 
, but uncertainties are beginning to mount even there . 
But investment bankers say that stock market uncertainties in the U.S. may cause many European companies to mark time before bidding for American companies , in the hope that share prices will come down . 
. 
U.S. , '' says Francois von Hurter , chief of Continential M&A at Credit Suisse First Boston Ltd . 
But he adds : `` Everybody and his sister have opened up M&A shops . It 's difficult to see that there 's going to be enough business to go around . 
until he got to Jackson Hole , Wyo . 
, and the work day kept getting longer . 
, or until the money runs out -- whichever comes first . 
But unlike London , out here I 've never heard anybody blow a car horn in anger . 
But any move by the banks to take over Qintex Australia 's management could threaten its ability to operate its national television network under Australian broadcast license rules . 
That , in turn , could substantially reduce the value of the television assets . 
But the transaction faltered in September , when Qintex Australia was forced to increase its offer to US$ 1.5 billion following a counterbid from Rupert Murdoch ; the deal fell apart altogether earlier this month . 
And defense lawyers are warning that they wo n't stick around if they do n't get paid . 
if they do n't get paid . 
. 
, because his attorneys are likely to quit , according to individuals familiar with the case . 
. 
A seizure also would make the case the largest -- and one of the first -- in which lawyers ' fees have been confiscated in a prosecution unrelated to drugs . 
, but the people who suffer in the long run are all of the people , because there wo n't be a vigorous private bar to defend the Bill of Rights , '' says Gerald Lefcourt , a criminal defense attorney who says he has turned down a number of cases to avoid possible fee seizures . 
, because there wo n't be a vigorous private bar to defend the Bill of Rights , '' says Gerald Lefcourt , a criminal defense attorney who says he has turned down a number of cases to avoid possible fee seizures . 
after one of Mr. Antar 's attorneys asked whether legal fees might be subject to seizure . 
Therefore , they said , the money can be taken from the lawyers even after they are paid . 
even after they are paid . 
, and that is different from actually doing it , although we reserve that right . '' 
, although we reserve that right . '' 
before any attempts at seizure are made . 
Still , criminal defense lawyers worry that defendants are being deprived of their Sixth Amendment right to counsel and a fair trial if the government can seize lawyers ' fees . 
if the government can seize lawyers ' fees . 
They also worry that if the government applies asset-forfeiture laws broadly , the best defense lawyers will be unwilling to take criminal cases unless they are assured of being paid . 
. 
unless they are assured of being paid . 
. 
But there are times when they seize up , and panicky sellers can not find buyers . 
, and panicky sellers can not find buyers . 
. 
; and many specialists stopped trading altogether . 
These failures in turn contributed to the fall in the market averages : Uncertainty extracted an extra risk premium and margin-calls triggered additional selling pressures . 
and margin-calls triggered additional selling pressures . 
-- just as buy-sell spreads widen during a financial panic -- and soon he is out of control . 
It 's doubtful , though , whether circuit breakers do any real good . 
, as would-be sellers finally get their broker on the phone . 
Instead , an appropriate institution should be charged with the job of preventing chaos in the market : the Federal Reserve . 
They , in turn , lent money to their customers -- who were supposed to recognize the opportunity to make a profit in the turmoil and buy shares . 
The Fed also has the power to set margin requirements . 
But would n't it be more efficient and effective to supply such support to the stock market directly ? 
, and thereby increasing the danger of inflation , the Fed could support the stock market directly by buying market averages in the futures market , thus stabilizing the market as a whole . 
, thus stabilizing the market as a whole . 
And taking more direct action has the advantage of avoiding sharp increases in the money supply , such as happened in October 1987 . 
Instead , the Fed could buy the broad market composites in the futures market . 
But since the member countries of the International Monetary Fund agreed to the `` Guidelines to Floating '' in 1974 , such difficulties have been avoided . 
. 
Thus , the mere existence of a market-stabilizing agency helps to avoid panic in emergencies . 
. '' 
But this could be a case where we all might go broke if it is n't fixed . 
if it is n't fixed . 
, if prudence does not guide the financing of leveraged transactions . '' 
before Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson announced his resignation last evening . 
However , in light of the risks involved in such transactions , banks should satisfy themselves that they have the skills to participate in this market and clear policy guidelines on acceptable levels of exposure to such transactions , he said . 
, but the `` bugs '' are n't expected to hurt Intel and most computer makers . 
before most computers using the chip as their `` brains '' appear on the market sometime next year . 
But while International Business Machines Corp. and Compaq Computer Corp. say the bugs will delay products , most big computer makers said the flaws do n't affect them . 
. 
Likewise , AST Research Inc. and Sun Microsystems Inc. said the bugs wo n't delay their development of 486-based machines . 
Nonetheless , concern about the chip may have been responsible for a decline of 87.5 cents in Intel 's stock to $ 32 a share yesterday in over-the-counter trading , on volume of 3,609,800 shares , and partly responsible for a drop in Compaq 's stock in New York Stock Exchange composite trading on Wednesday . 
but you 're taking a risk . 
Because of the glitch , however , the company said it does n't know when its machine will be commercially available . 
, because the company does n't announce products until they 're actually at the dealers . 
until they 're actually at the dealers . 
, experts say , because the 486 is Intel 's future flagship . 
and the 80486 microprocessor is the spearhead of the company 's bid to guard that spot in the next generation of machines . 
, '' said Mr. Slater , the newsletter editor . 
But while the chip 's speed in processing power is dazzling , it 's real strength lies in its software inheritance . 
. 
ever since IBM picked the 16-bit 8088 chip for its first personal computer . 
Of the big computer makers , only Apple Computer Co. bases its machines on Motorola chips instead . 
because it marks the first time the nation 's No. 2 steelmaker has joined forces with a foreign partner . 
because it marks the first time the nation 's No. 2 steelmaker has joined forces with a foreign partner . 
when the market has already peaked . '' 
, because its competitors already have tapped the Japanese and South Korean industry leaders , analysts noted . 
Bethlehem is also working with the United Steelworkers union to consolidate BethForge 's two machine shops and four heat-treatment facilities of the press-forge operations . 
. 
. 
. 
but also eliminated one of the few profitable investments thrifts have made . 
But there is a grimly ironic twist to the Columbia loss . 
, but the `` long term '' is nonetheless a big salon topic all around the Beltway . 
, but the `` long term '' is nonetheless a big salon topic all around the Beltway . 
in large part because the new congressionally mandated rules forced it to adjust the book value of its soon-to-be-sold junk bonds to the lower of either their cost or market value . 
. 
until informed at a morning meeting by Chairman Lawrence G. Rawl . 
But the pullout is an embarrassment to New York City officials , coming at a time of high office building vacancy rates and departures by other major companies . 
, and huge operations like J.C. Penney & Co. and Trans World Airlines have recently left . 
, but there 's nothing we can do about it now , '' said Stanley Grayson , New York City deputy mayor for finance and economic development . 
Meanwhile , Dallas welcomed the move . 
, but negotiations had all been conducted through a law firm and under the code name `` Everglades . '' 
; what a coup , '' said Tom Lewis , senior vice president of Dallas Partnership , the economic development affiliate of the city 's Chamber of Commerce . 
. 
, but during at its interim location , sources say it will likely pay rent of $ 10 to $ 15 per square foot . 
In Texas , taxes and development costs are also lower , they said . 
Plus , one Exxon official said , by eliminating the typically long New York commutes between office and home , management will expect employees to work 40 hours a week in Dallas , rather than a 35-hour work week in New York . 
as the industry operated at 87 % of capacity . 
The price also includes assumption of about $ 1.4 billion in debt . 
It also was considering a restructuring to help boost the stock price . 
, but the auction was surprisingly won by IMA , which bid $ 28 a share and asked Mr. Gilleland to stay on as an equity participant . 
Then , after extending its offer four times waiting for a congressional tax ruling , IMA early this month lowered its offer to $ 26.50 a share amid turbulence in the junk bond market . 
. 
, meanwhile indicating it had heard from two other suitors . 
But they never materialized and IMA completed the purchase yesterday . 
and IMA completed the purchase yesterday . 
if rumors were to circulate about when the exchanges might be closed . 
But Mr. Brady argued that the SEC is closer to the markets and in a better position to understand when the exchanges are under such stress that they should be closed . 
Separately , Mr. Brady said he asked the Working Group on Financial Markets to determine whether futures margins are too low . 
and whether futures margins are adequate , '' Mr. Brady said . 
Mr. Brady also said he expects the leveraged buy-out phenomenon to `` end under -LRB- its -RRB- own weight . '' 
. '' 
. '' 
Mr. Brady also agreed with senators ' concerns about recent stock-market volatility , and said he realizes that the gyrations are scaring investors from investing in stocks . 
But he added that individuals still are participating in the equity market indirectly through mutual funds and pension funds . 
But Mr. Brady endorsed the market-revision bill that both houses of Congress will try to push through this session . 
The bill also would give the SEC the power to close the markets , a discretion that former SEC Chairman David Ruder wanted but Mr. Breeden does n't . 
However , as is common with sweeping legislation , the proposal contains many provisions that could destroy important parts of the system it sets out to preserve . 
The bill also elevates even minor rule infractions to felonies and provides for recovery of punitive damages in civil lawsuits and arbitration cases without any showing of willful misconduct . 
Indeed , some of the bill 's requirements , including broad representation on the exchanges ' boards of directors and strong measures to prevent conflicts of interest , already have been put in place by the Coffee , Sugar & Cocoa Exchange and other futures exchanges . 
Other aspects of the bill , however , are either structured in ways that create unnecessary burdens for the industry or actually are harmful to the exchanges , the industry and ultimately the general public . 
But is it realistic for Congress to mandate by a rigid deadline a system that has not yet been subjected to feasibility studies ? 
In fact , several London markets already offer lower costs for trading in the same or very similar contracts . 
and instead hire their own salaried floor brokers . 
Finally , under the bill , a number of legitimate , longstanding business practices would be arbitrarily banned , unless the CFTC were to take specific and timely action to permit them to continue . 
, unless the CFTC were to take specific and timely action to permit them to continue . 
In other words , regulation will occur through inaction and happenstance , rather than through a normal deliberative procedure . 
, even though in some cases trading with affiliates may be the only way to obtain the best execution for a client . 
Also precluded would be dual trading , whereby a broker trades for customers as well as his own account , a practice that provides needed liquidity to the markets . 
Nonetheless , each has too much potential value to the system to be banned by legislative fiat before the CFTC carefully considers all the consequences of a ban and what the regulatory alternatives are . 
before the CFTC carefully considers all the consequences of a ban and what the regulatory alternatives are . 
. 
Mr. Mahfouz 's Cairo also has Sufi sheiks and saintly wives who look to God , not crime , for their salvation . 
But it is his portrait of Cairo low-life -- of charlatans and opium addicts , of streets filled with `` dust , vegetable litter , and animal dung '' -- that made his reputation , and won him the Nobel Prize in 1988 . 
But they do show the range of a restless intellect whose 30-odd novels span five decades and include work of social realism , protest and allegory . 
They also chart the evolution of a city that has grown tenfold in the author 's lifetime , from a colonial outpost of fez-wearing pashas to a Third World slum choking on its own refuse . 
and it is the one for which he is most renowned . 
, then to peddling herself for a few piasters . 
so that his avaricious brother can succeed , while another helps support the family with money siphoned from crime . 
, while another helps support the family with money siphoned from crime . 
The real tragedy , though , lies not in the family 's circumstances but in its concern for appearances . 
And the successful son wishes his embarrassing siblings dead . 
But its unsentimental sketches of Cairo life are vintage Mahfouz . 
And we meet engaging crooks , such as Hassan `` the Head , '' famed for his head-butting fights , his whoring and his hashish . 
, but so does almost everyone else in the book . 
. '' 
when there was no novelistic tradition in Arabic , and he modeled his work on Western classics . 
, and he modeled his work on Western classics . 
But the familiarity of his style also makes his work accessible , as the streets of Cairo come alive for the Western reader as vividly as Dickens 's London or Dostoevski 's St. Petersburg . 
But the familiarity of his style also makes his work accessible , as the streets of Cairo come alive for the Western reader as vividly as Dickens 's London or Dostoevski 's St. Petersburg . 
, as the streets of Cairo come alive for the Western reader as vividly as Dickens 's London or Dostoevski 's St. Petersburg . 
Later , he recalls the words of his Marxist mentor : `` The people ! Theft ! The holy fire ! '' 
Cairo 's spirited squalor also has gone gray . 
. 
, but it is likely to disappoint Western readers . 
The 1981 novel `` Wedding Song '' also is experimental , and another badly aimed bullet . 
But the device obscures more than it illuminates . 
But again , the themes get tangled in Mr. Mahfouz 's elliptical storytelling . 
, but its color has drained away , and the will to overcome has been defeated . 
, and the will to overcome has been defeated . 
And the ubiquitous opium addict is now a cynical and selfish man who gripes : `` Only government ministers can afford it these days ! '' 
, '' but it has engaged in talks with other shareholders , the filing said . 
Also involved in the group is Robert F. Angelo , formerly Phoenix 's senior vice president , field operations , who left Phoenix at the beginning of October . 
It also provides for benefit adjustments , including a partial restoration of vacations and holidays , as well as work-rule changes to increase productivity . 
Instead , Congress 's idea of reform is to increase this slush fund by $ 28.4 million . 
and not a single congressional hearing has been held on any of them . 
However , four are in the Michigan district of Rep. Bob Traxler , the chairman of the House subcommittee that writes the HUD spending bill . 
, while the same kind of noncompetitive favoritism at HUD is labeled `` influence peddling . '' 
after it returned from a conference committee that was called to resolve differences between the House and Senate versions . 
and no minutes are taken . 
So you get an idea of the leverage there and elsewhere that our market for drugs has brought about . 
; to educate people , to strongly discourage use of drugs by people who are casual users and first users , to stop this process among the young -- all of these things I think are extremely important . 
But , I have to tell you that it seems to me that the conceptual base of the current program is flawed and the program is not likely to work . 
and the program is not likely to work . 
, and we worked hard on it . 
, so I 'm personally a veteran of this war . 
until we can take the criminality out of the drug business and the incentives for criminality out of it . 
. 
, so that they create a market for themselves . 
because they wo n't have that market . 
So I think the conceptual base needs to be thought out in a different way . 
, then read a bold and informative article in this September 's issue of Science by Ethan Nadelmann on this subject . 
and people head for somebody else . 
But I feel that if somebody does n't get up and start talking about this now , the next time around , when we have the next iteration of these programs , it will still be true that everyone is scared to talk about it . 
. 
But trade , one of the economy 's main forces in the past few years , showed a sharp deterioration . 
, while exports were flat . 
as demand for autos falls , partly because of higher prices on models introduced last month . 
as demand for autos falls , partly because of higher prices on models introduced last month . 
, because it makes exports more expensive and imports cheaper . 
And business investment -- which slowed in the third quarter , according to yesterday 's report -- is expected to continue to be sluggish . 
Consequently , Michael Darby , undersecretary for economic affairs at the Commerce Department , said inflation probably will edge up from the third-quarter rate in the final three months of 1989 . 
But he said he believes the second quarter 's 5 % rate `` will prove to have been this year 's peak quarterly inflation rate . '' 
as it heads into its eighth year of sustained growth next month . 
, '' although he said he expects the expansion to slow in the fourth quarter . 
, and I think that 's good news . '' 
But administration officials were concerned over the bleak trade report , which showed the deficit in the country 's trade of goods and services swelling to a $ 74 billion annual rate in the third quarter from a $ 51 billion rate in the second quarter . 
and prices of U.S. products are still competitive . 
Some analysts also were disturbed by a pickup in the growth of business inventories . 
because a pileup of unsold goods can lead to production cuts and layoffs . 
because a pileup of unsold goods can lead to production cuts and layoffs . 
But it will slow production . '' 
, the department said , but it called the effect on the roughly $ 5 trillion economy `` negligible . '' 
, and also supports a 1990 purchase of 90 missiles for follow-on flight tests . 
But in 1988 , it ran into a buzz saw : a Defense Department spending freeze . 
as once-lucrative specialty niches in the massive military market erode or even disappear . 
-- though it 's too soon to tell whether the changes will pay off . 
. 
. '' 
. 
? 
UNC also is selling new parts , if needed , directly to the military instead of through a prime contractor . 
. 
It is also taking over the maintenance of certain Navy aircraft with 40 % fewer people than the military used . 
QuesTech Inc. , Falls Church , Va. , also has acquired some companies outside the military market . 
Moreover , it 's trying to transfer its skill at designing military equipment to commercial ventures . 
, '' he says , `` and it was a mistake . '' 
, but so were lower profits from a stingier contract with the Army and delays in getting paid . 
, but also closed an unrelated plant that makes ordnance devices used in fighter planes and missiles . 
But we 're not making as many -LCB- pyrotechnic devices -RCB- as we used to . 
. 
, but that it 's happy to deal with him . 
But the interest rates they charge are often near Japan 's 54.75 % legal limit , says Kenji Utsunomiya , a lawyer specializing in loan troubles . 
. 
And the acquisition , which made Aska one of Christies ' top five shareholders , left many people wondering who this man was and what his intentions were . 
But Christies , Mr. Morishita insists , is happy to see him become a long-term stockholder . 
, although he wo n't disclose numbers . 
, if the company reported results correctly . 
, and Mr. Kori , the tycoon 's secretary , says the problem simply resulted from a difference of opinion over what was considered income . 
But when asked what exactly he does in business , he immediately takes offense . `` Are you stupid ? '' he snaps . `` You should know what questions to ask to get people to answer . '' 
. 
, but it 's a source of rumors about shady dealings . 
. 
When a small company goes belly-up , for instance , the gossipy weekly magazines are often quick to link the demise with Aichi . 
He also owns courses in the U.S. and France . 
. 
He also leads an opulent life style . 
. 
. 
until a successor is named . 
In yesterday 's report , First Interstate said its bank in Texas also reported a loss of $ 23.5 million for the quarter . 
But it said that its consumer banks in Oregon , California , Nevada and Washington performed well during the quarter and that nonperforming assets at these banks declined by 14 % over the year-ago period . 
and that nonperforming assets at these banks declined by 14 % over the year-ago period . 
, but wage increases still are running above last year 's levels . 
when the department started comparing expiring contracts with those that replaced them . 
, so the actual wage increases may have been bigger . 
, '' says Lydia Brown , the program 's creator . 
But while better-off Filipinos are quick to cite the logic in using a language as widespread as English , they are often slow to reveal that they are prejudiced against Filipino , say advocates of the native language . 
, say advocates of the native language . 
There 's also resentment . 
, although recent surveys indicate that the majority of the country 's population understands Filipino more than any other language . 
when the Philippines was a colony of the U.S. , teachers for the most part teach in English , even though it is a foreign language for most Philippine children . 
, even though it is a foreign language for most Philippine children . 
As a result , they often speak one language at home , another at school . 
, who continue to conduct debates mostly in English . 
But many proponents of Filipino see resistance to the language finally crumbling . 
But advertising revenue is inadequate . 
But the production is the equal of any local program . 
And the show 's creativity makes up for any technological deficiencies . 
In addition , CMS reported third-quarter net of $ 68.2 million , or 83 cents a share , up from $ 66.8 million , or 81 cents a share , a year ago . 
, while Home Nutritional Services will sell the remaining 2.2 million . 
after it acquired Emhart earlier this year . 
, but also significantly increased its debt load . 
In addition , Black & Decker had said it would sell two other undisclosed Emhart operations if it received the right price . 
if it received the right price . 
, and we remain confident that we will achieve our stated goal of over $ 1 billion in net proceeds , '' said Nolan D. Archibald , Black & Decker 's president and chief executive officer , in a statement . 
when it first announced that it planned to acquire Emhart . 
. 
The Hart-Scott filing is then reviewed and any antitrust concerns usually met . 
and any antitrust concerns usually met . 
Also , as former Reagan antitrust chief Charles Rule has noted , this would `` establish the precedent that the government may charge parties for the privilege of being sued regardless of whether the government prevails . '' 
But sources said he will be urging his allies to boost their stakes in Navigation Mixte , which is being traded in London and is to resume trading in Paris Tuesday . 
. 
This time , however , some analysts think he could face a real battle . 
, but analysts said that is considered likely . 
Mr. Fournier also noted that Navigation Mixte joined Paribas 's core of shareholders when Paribas was denationalized in 1987 , and said it now holds just under 5 % of Paribas 's shares . 
when Paribas was denationalized in 1987 , and said it now holds just under 5 % of Paribas 's shares . 
. 
. 
, but Mr. Fournier downplayed the likelihood of his organizing a takeover bid of his own for the much-larger Paribas . 
, but some analysts said they are n't so sure . 
Allianz , for example , has said in official comments so far that it will remain neutral . 
Alternatively , it is to offer three Paribas shares for one Navigation Mixte share . 
In addition , each note can be converted into Blockbuster Entertainment common stock at a rate of 13.851 shares per note . 
Moreover , 41 companies that paid no federal income tax from 1981 through 1985 -- despite billions of dollars of profits -- ended up paying an average of 27.9 % of their income in federal taxes in 1988 . 
as Congress is considering a number of special tax breaks only three years after the sweeping tax-revision legislation abolished or curtailed many loopholes . 
only three years after the sweeping tax-revision legislation abolished or curtailed many loopholes . 
until a project was completed and strengthened the so-called alternative minimum tax , a levy to ensure all money-making businesses pay some federal tax . 
In addition , corporations are now shouldering a bigger share of the tax burden , as the authors of the 1986 law hoped . 
Still , Kroger Co. , Pinnacle West Capital Corp. , CSX Corp. , Illinois Power Co. , Media General Inc. , Santa Fe Southern Pacific Corp. and Gulf States Utilities Co. , did n't pay any federal income tax last year although they garnered a total of $ 1.2 billion in profits , the group said . 
although they garnered a total of $ 1.2 billion in profits , the group said . 
In fact , six of those companies received refunds , which totaled $ 120 million . 
But even though companies are paying more taxes , many are still paying less than the statutory rate , the report said . 
, the report said . 
And 45 companies paid effective tax rates of below 10 % of their income . 
, '' the study said . 
But so far Japan 's cash-rich retailers are proving to be cautious shoppers . 
But operating a U.S. department-store chain would be very difficult , '' says Motoyuki Homma , managing director of the international division at Mitsukoshi Ltd. , one of Japan 's leading department stores . 
, and they fret that business practices that have won them huge profits at home wo n't translate into success in the U.S. . 
Japanese department stores are also wary of attracting negative publicity . 
Still , for those with a long-term eye on the vast U.S. retail market , this is a tempting time to look for bargains . 
And debt-ridden Campeau Corp. of Toronto is giving up the 17-store Bloomingdale 's group . 
Mr. Allen , however , does n't think that Japan is about to embark on a major buying binge . 
Nonetheless , speculation heated up yesterday when Tokyu Department Store Co. confirmed a report in Nihon Keizai Shimbun , Japan 's leading business daily , that Tokyu is talking with Campeau about buying Bloomingdale 's . 
Tokyu , however , said no agreement had been reached . 
Nor is Tokyu the only Japanese retailer interested in Bloomingdale 's , which bankers in Tokyo estimate could cost between $ 1 billion and $ 1.5 billion . 
, and more than half are seeking additional information on the group , bankers say . 
after it was acquired last year by Campeau , which relied heavily on debt to finance the transaction . 
, '' says one investment banker who follows the retail industry . 
Then they opened small gift shops mostly aimed at Japanese tourists . 
And Mitsukoshi recently increased its equity stake in Tiffany & Co. to 13 % . 
and that there is some interest in the idea . 
But he stops there . 
`` But it looks tough . '' 
But it said extraordinary expenditures for its radio station and restoration of buildings increased the deficit to $ 57.2 million . 
. 
But we 're ... going to be in the exact same situation next year . '' 
But attendance is down from previous years . 
... so they hold back the goods , '' he said . 
But China 's official Xinhua News Agency reported that the number of foreign businessmen was greater than the previous fair -- without providing statistics . 
, but bond prices fell only slightly and the dollar rose a little against most major currencies . 
and the dollar rose a little against most major currencies . 
, but the effect hit home particularly hard yesterday . 
after the stock market closed Wednesday . 
when they each reported their core auto operations were net losers in the third quarter . 
. 
. 
as the chamber approved a compromise bill allocating $ 17.2 billion to the departments of State , Justice , and Commerce in fiscal 1990 and imposing increased fees on business interests making filings with the government . 
, and Securities and Exchange Commission filing fees would rise by 25 % to fund a $ 26 million increase in the agency 's budget . 
. '' 
, but beginning in fiscal 1991 , the bill commits the government to annual payments of as much as $ 500 million until the total liability of $ 1.25 billion is met . 
until the total liability of $ 1.25 billion is met . 
. 
, and it is a lightning rod for a running battle over the fate of the Legal Services Corp . 
until successors are agreed to by the Bush administration . 
And on back-to-back roll calls , 206-199 and 223-178 , the Appropriations Committee leadership turned back efforts to weaken or strip the proposed restrictions first added by Sen. Warren Rudman -LRB- R. , N.H. -RRB- 
if the income is n't realized . 
, and the judiciary will rely on another $ 32 million from bankruptcy charges , including a 33 % increase in the current filing fee . 
, and the rush of money is already provoking jealousy among states competing for assistance . 
but , by a 287-123 margin , the chamber stripped a Senate initiative to raise the minimum grant for smaller states , such as New Hampshire and Delaware , to $ 1.6 million from $ 500,000 . 
. 
, and Sen. Ernest Hollings -LRB- D. , S.C . -RRB- used his power to add $ 10 million for an advanced technology initiative in the Commerce Department . 
, and expectations of continued slow vehicle sales and price wars are casting a pall over the fourth period . 
Still , the combined profit of Ford , Chrysler Corp. and General Motors Corp. fell 44 % to $ 1.02 billion from $ 1.83 billion a year earlier , excluding a one-time gain of $ 309 million at Chrysler from the sale of Mitsubishi Motors Corp. stock . 
, and Chrysler eased 37.5 cents to $ 22.25 , all in New York Stock Exchange composite trading . 
. 
. 
But the costly efforts did little to slow Japanese market gains , and domestic car sales have plunged 19 % since the Big Three ended many of their programs Sept. 30 . 
, and domestic car sales have plunged 19 % since the Big Three ended many of their programs Sept. 30 . 
since the Big Three ended many of their programs Sept. 30 . 
. 
and incentives will sprout again . 
But David N. McCammon , vice president , finance , insisted that cost-cutting and tight production capacity will make results `` better in this downturn than in prior downturns , '' when Ford had net losses . 
Still , Mr. McCammon said Ford expects the U.S. economy to weaken through the end of 1990 , causing weaker sales and production . 
As a result , fourth-quarter profit will come in below 1988 results , although the drop wo n't be as sharp as the 44 % third-quarter decline , he said . 
, although the drop wo n't be as sharp as the 44 % third-quarter decline , he said . 
, but he declined to be specific . 
But analysts estimated that GM had a loss of as much as $ 300 million on domestic vehicle operations . 
, and rebates to dealers and customers more than offset gains from price increases on 1990 model vehicles delivered during the period , a GM spokesman said . 
But GM 's results also illustrate the increasing diversity of its operations . 
But GM 's results also illustrate the increasing diversity of its operations . 
Meanwhile , GM said overseas auto operations are on track to exceed last year 's record full-year net of $ 2.7 billion . 
if GM has to trim fourth-quarter North American production schedules more than the already scheduled 9.5 % . 
, even though net for the first nine months was up 1.9 % to $ 3.52 billion on revenue of $ 95.57 billion . 
because it does not fit neatly into a category such as tragedy , comedy or history . 
, and currently two other productions -- one just closed at the Old Globe in San Diego and another now at the Seattle Rep -- overlap with Mr. Boyd 's . 
. 
before he could marry her , Angelo summarily condemns Claudio to death . 
. 
When , however , Claudio 's sister , Isabella , a novitiate in a convent , goes to Angelo to plead her brother 's case , the obdurate ruler immediately falls in love with her and , in a supreme act of hypocrisy , demands that Isabella yield up her virtue to him in exchange for her brother 's life . 
Meanwhile , the Duke , who set the original scheme in motion , appears on the scene disguised as a friar and becomes involved in a series of intrigues that has everyone fearing the worst possible outcome until the Duke arranges a last minute reprieve for all concerned . 
until the Duke arranges a last minute reprieve for all concerned . 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
When , however , he decides to be modern , or more accurately , when he decides to be trendy , the results are far less satisfactory . 
, or more accurately , when he decides to be trendy , the results are far less satisfactory . 
. 
, but it puts a heavy burden on the director to show an uncommon degree of imagination and taste . 
. 
. 
Meanwhile , the pimp Pompey -LRB- Glen Allen Pruett -RRB- , dressed in black leather and a prominent codpiece , indulges in enough obscene gestures and pelvic thrusts to launch a space probe . 
The inclusion at one point , for example , of a list of glitzy modern-day malefactors , ranging from Jim Bakker and Leona Helmsley to Zsa Zsa Gabor , is a bid for a cheap laugh unworthy of Mr. Boyd 's ability . 
Despite the excesses , however , the scorecard for the production has many more pluses than minuses . 
, but so did cost cutting and other measures insisted on by the board . 
when its founder , Nina Vance , was at the height of her powers . 
But it is clear he is going to give it a shot . 
before they can address the issue . 
And neither Democrats nor Republicans are predicting that the capital-gains forces can produce enough votes . 
and they do n't have the 60 votes , '' Sen. Mitchell said . 
And they threatened to try to amend any other revenue bill in the Senate with the capital-gains provision . 
The two sides also traded accusations about the cost of the Packwood plan . 
. 
It also would create a new IRA that would shield from taxation the appreciation on investments made for a wide variety of purposes , including retirement , medical expenses , first-home purchases and tuition . 
It 's also the first major sign of the long-awaited consolidation in the European insurance industry as the European Community Commission moves toward a single market by 1992 . 
as the European Community Commission moves toward a single market by 1992 . 
But most U.S. insurers have n't rushed to change the way they do business in Europe because they believe the European market will still be dominated by a handful of domestic companies . 
because they believe the European market will still be dominated by a handful of domestic companies . 
because `` all our large clients in Germany are becoming European companies or multinational companies and they expect an insurance broker '' to serve them as well in Paris as in Germany . 
and they expect an insurance broker '' to serve them as well in Paris as in Germany . 
as related computer technology gains in sophistication and quality . 
The latest quarter 's results , however , included a pretax gain of $ 13.7 million , or 20 cents a share , in the carrying value of the company 's investment in Conner Peripherals Inc. and a $ 7.6 million gain , or 11 cents a share , from the sale of one million Conner shares . 
Net for the year-earlier nine months also included a gain of $ 9.7 million , or 15 cents a share , in the carrying value of the Conner investment . 
Diversified , the holding company for Fidelity Federal Savings & Loan Association , said the agreement also gives Star States the option to acquire 588,300 of Diversified 's 1,774,326 shares outstanding `` under certain circumstances . '' 
, and production is expected to begin in 1991 . 
and the receptionist still answers the phone , `` Speaker Wright 's office . '' 
But many have . 
. 
There is also a busy schedule of speaking engagements at $ 10,000 a pop , at tony places including the Yale Political Union . 
He is also a recovering workaholic , relaxing with his family and creating topiary , or garden-shrub sculpture , a fashionable pursuit for which he developed a passion during his three-year legal ordeal . 
, '' observes Frank Mankiewicz , an old Washington hand and former aide to Robert Kennedy . 
Thus have Charles Colson and Jeb Magruder launched successful post-Watergate careers at the pulpit . 
But it does n't always work so smoothly . 
. 
, but his fees have been meager and he failed in efforts to win a chunk of his ex-wife 's royalties on her tell-all book . 
and he failed in efforts to win a chunk of his ex-wife 's royalties on her tell-all book . 
almost immediately after media reports questioned the propriety of a 1986 junk-bond investment , before any official investigations took hold . 
, before any official investigations took hold . 
, even though she was never charged with official wrondgoing . 
. 
, but it was n't easy on her . '' 
, although with roles in such movies as `` Zombie Island Massacre '' and `` Aunt Ida 's Bikini Shop , '' she is doing a lot better than her former husband . 
Yet his co-defendant in the case -- also a former military officer by the name of Oliver North -- has been busily and profitably burnishing his involvement in the affair . 

, and one of the worst sins in Washington is to be laughed at . 
Nevertheless , Rep. Gerry Studds of Massachusetts was handily re-elected because of the candor with which he handled revelations that he had sex with a male congressional page in 1983 . 
after he was caught soliciting sex from a 16-year-old boy , has never regained his professional footing as a lawyer . 
. 
. 
, but not to enable him to directly lobby ; that would require him to disclose his clients by registering as a lobbyist . 
Still , Mr. Mack says he talks to `` 30 members of Congress a week . '' 
after his troubles erupted was former Nixon aide John Ehrlichman , whom Mr. Deaver scarcely knew . 
. 
even though Canada has opposed such U.S. actions as the trade embargo against Cuba , the invasion of Grenada and the military support for Nicaragua 's Contra guerrillas . 
. 
Even though the U.S. also has supported Canadian membership , it has n't been a Washington priority . 
U.S. if its United Nations voting record is an indication . 
'' if Canada were to follow the U.S. lead in the OAS . 
, but the organization 's members are discussing Cuba 's reinstatement . 
, though it is portrayed in keeping with the more restrictive social conventions of the time . 
For example , one of my favorite movies is the 1949 British comedy `` Kind Hearts and Coronets , '' in which the entire comedy is based on actor Dennis Price 's murdering eight titled relatives -LRB- all played by Alec Guinness -RRB- because they snubbed his mother and stand in the way of his acquiring the family title . 
because they snubbed his mother and stand in the way of his acquiring the family title . 
Similarly , one of the most popular comedy genres of the 1930s and '40s was the `` murder mystery\/comedy . '' The `` Thin Man '' series of movies , as well as many others , based their entire comedic appeal on the star detectives ' witty quips and puns as other characters in the movies were murdered . 
Further , I think Mr. Knight made a poor choice in picking `` A Fish Called Wanda '' as an example of the deplorable state of modern comedy movies . 
-- as it takes off . 
even when they are irrelevant to the script , and high-tech special effects are continually substituted for good plot and character development . 
, and high-tech special effects are continually substituted for good plot and character development . 
In short , we have a movie and television industry that is either incapable or petrified of making a movie unless it carries a PG-13 or R rating . 
unless it carries a PG-13 or R rating . 
Hence copious amounts of gratuitous sex , violence and gutter language are included as a crutch . 
However , these faults are not the exclusive property of modern comedies , and I believe Mr. Knight errs when he attempts to link this modern phenomenon too closely to a single category of movie making . 
, and I believe Mr. Knight errs when he attempts to link this modern phenomenon too closely to a single category of movie making . 
when he attempts to link this modern phenomenon too closely to a single category of movie making . 
because it would `` enhance the marketability '' and trading of the stock . 
. 
, and par value would rise to 10 cents from a penny . 
, but Duriron said the deal will be completed through an exchange of stock . 
Du Pont also raised its quarterly dividend to $ 1.20 a share from $ 1.05 , a change that will increase the annualized payout to shareholders by some $ 140 million . 
when they are translated into dollars . 
several months before he entered his current position in April . 
Du Pont also announced plans for a 3-for-1 stock split , although the initial higher dividend will be paid on pre-split shares . 
, although the initial higher dividend will be paid on pre-split shares . 
because the company was `` first in with the technology '' to lower costs . 
, although others are now adding low-cost production capacity . 
, as Du Pont 's Conoco Inc. oil company was helped by crude oil prices higher than a year ago and by higher natural gas prices and volume . 
, thus increasing sales in the third quarter . 
And profit from polymers dropped to $ 107 million from $ 122 million amid what Du Pont called lower demand and selling prices in certain packaging and industrial markets . 
, and that the treaty be ratified by 1992 . 
Mr. Mitterrand also proposed a separate `` Bank for Europe '' that would channel development money to the East . 
But for us in Western Europe , these are Europeans next door . '' 
while the U.S. is n't . 
. 
But British analysts are beginning to link the issues . 
, it also liberalized and opened up those markets . '' 
`` But they have n't yet drawn the operational policy conclusions . '' 
and Mr. Gorbachev scrambling to rejuvenate the Soviet economy , `` Our interest lies in a controlled transformation , a contained nuclear reaction , so we need to help him , and not just with words . '' 
, so we need to help him , and not just with words . '' 
, even if democratic . '' 
. 
. 
if a hostile bidder acquires more than 20 % of the shares outstanding . 
. 
Separately , Dominion Textile posted net income of 4.7 million Canadian dollars -LRB- $ 4 million -RRB- , or 12 Canadian cents a share , for the fiscal-first quarter ended Sept. 30 . 
, which also includes two additional option years for which compensation has n't yet been fixed . 
The company also hopes the latest acquisition will help secure large construction orders from Japanese concerns with U.S. operations . 
, soon after Mr. Davison reaches the company 's mandatory retirement age of 65 . 
As a result , U.S. Trust 's earnings have been hurt . 
But Mr. Schwarz welcomes the competition in U.S. Trust 's flagship businesses , calling it `` flattery . '' 
Previously , the company advertised at the $ 2 million level . 
, but now we are looking for smaller accounts that will grow , '' Mr. Schwarz says . 
In this year 's third quarter , for example , net was $ 10.5 million , or $ 1.05 a share , compared with $ 10.3 million , or $ 1.02 a share , a year earlier . 
Mr. Schwarz also said costs associated with U.S. Trust 's planned move to midtown Manhattan from Wall Street will continue to be a drag on earnings through 1990 . 
, but his family no longer has ties to the company . 
U.S. Trust also created a four-member office of the chairman , effective Feb. 1 . 
, and Mr. Wonham remains responsible for the offices of comptroller , planning , marketing and general services . 
Frederick B. Taylor , 48 , also was named a vice chairman and chief investment officer , a new post . 
He previously held similar responsibilities . 
Mr. Taylor also was named a director , increasing the board to 22 , but is not part of the new office of the chairman . 
More than two-thirds of the systems shipped , meanwhile , were products introduced in April . 
But problems in manufacturing , forecasting demand and getting the bugs out of a new management information system made it extremely difficult for Sun to meet demand for its newest computers well into the summer . 
These problems also resulted in Sun reporting a $ 20.3 million loss for its fourth quarter ended June 30 . 
, and he indicated that Sun 's profitability should increase throughout the fiscal year . 
Sun also reported a record backlog of orders . 
. 
Recently , analysts have said Sun also is vulnerable to competition from International Business Machines Corp. , which plans to introduce a group of workstations early next year , and Next Inc . 
and to acquire the company 's steel-related assets in a transaction valued at more than $ 300 million . 
. 
and that a formal proposal would be made to Sharon 's Chapter 11 trustee and other Sharon creditors over the next few days . 
But as Congress prepares a fresh package of sanctions against Beijing , the already-tense relationship could get worse . 
. 
. '' 
and we can not just blame the demonstrators . '' 
Mr. Lee also reported to the president that , in a separate meeting , Communist Party chief Jiang Zemin said the Chinese leadership `` looked kindly on the students who took part in the demonstrations . '' 
Mr. Jiang also pledged that the Chinese Red Cross would publish `` very soon '' a list of those killed . 
And he told the physicist that China 's leaders were `` very much concerned '' about the deaths and had arranged aid for the victims ' families . 
But , he adds , `` I was not acting as a messenger . '' 
, but that the White House spontaneously invited him to do so . 
`` But he may not have a choice . '' 
, sources in Beijing said , while an 18-year-old worker got 10 years . 
Nor has Beijing hinted to its citizens that it will publish the identities of those killed . 
, and their families receive no compensation . 
while cycling to work carries , after his death , the official stigma of `` counterrevolutionary , '' his wife says . 
as he left for Washington last week . 
But as legislative action , they would carry greater weight and would be more difficult to rescind . 
, '' says a U.S. official in Beijing . 
They then began donating blood twice a week , receiving an EPO injection each time . 
. 
But it did n't sing . 
So they opted for IRA , naming it after Ira Cohen , a brilliant IRS actuary who helped them . 
But in 1986 Congress sharply reduced the number of people who could qualify for its benefits and IRA tax-deductions slowed their roaring growth . 
and IRA tax-deductions slowed their roaring growth . 
But for Soviet citizens who travel abroad for business or tourism , the rate will jump to 6.26 rubles to the dollar . 
Tass news agency said the devaluation also will apply to foreigners ' transactions . 
But it did n't elaborate , and it remains unclear how far Western tourists and foreigners living in Moscow will be allowed to benefit from the sweeping rate cut . 
, and it remains unclear how far Western tourists and foreigners living in Moscow will be allowed to benefit from the sweeping rate cut . 
. 
and then sell them at a huge mark-up . 
-- but they buy them anyway . 
as Moscow moves toward making the ruble convertible -- a goal that Soviet bankers and economists say is still far away . 
, but the size of the cut took many Western bankers by surprise . 
, and joint ventures are n't yet allowed to participate . 
The Kremlin also has been unwilling to provide hard currency for the auction , using a lot of it instead to finance emergency imports of consumer goods . 
, using a lot of it instead to finance emergency imports of consumer goods . 
. 
But the amounts they exchange may be limited ; most Soviet hotels , for example , demand payment in hard currency from Western visitors . 
; most Soviet hotels , for example , demand payment in hard currency from Western visitors . 
. 
But under current rules , they are allowed to change just 200 rubles into dollars and other currencies for each trip . 
. 
But the computer giant appears to have lost a second key contract with Kodak to archrival Digital Equipment Corp . 
Kodak , based in Rochester , N.Y. , said IBM also had bid for the business . 
, '' said Paul Allen , the spokesman . 
, and some members of Congress think it 's time to take a fresh look at the nation 's central bank . 
The regional Federal Reserve Bank setup , for instance , may be out of date . 
, but times have changed . 
Some of the would-be reformers , however , want to restore an arrangement we once had -- or , at least , part of it . 
But in 1935 , when Congress was trying to find someone or something to blame for the Great Depression , it decided to drop both the secretary and the comptroller from the board . 
and , somehow , he did n't think that was a good thing . 
and , somehow , he did n't think that was a good thing . 
but at least Congress , as in 1935 , would be doing something . 
, and he does n't like it much . 
, but H. Erich Heinemann , chief economist of the investment firm of Ladenburg , Thalmann & Co. , suggests that Mr. Brady may figure he already has all the power he needs . 
He was , in fact , taking an especially keen interest in board matters even before he went to the treasury . 
even before he went to the treasury . 
and what should be done about it . 
, but so far Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan has n't made a pitch for the job . 
and in 1987 and again in 1989 it appears to have handled them well . 
, but he has left no doubt that he still likes the ideas the commission advanced nearly two years ago . 
In recent weeks , moreover , Mr. Brady has joined other administration officials in trying to urge the Fed toward lower interest rates . 
, while the administration may put slightly more emphasis on spurring economic growth . 
, but Mr. Brady , on the board or off , is surely trying to influence Fed policy . 
, but to have any hope of success it needs help from the Fed . 
, but through August , at least , it appeared to be `` sterilizing '' the intervention . 
In other words , it was offsetting purchases of marks and yen by buying dollars in the domestic money market . 
. 
But it 's generally accepted that sterilized intervention has little or no lasting impact on currency values . 
, but it 's hard to see much impact on the dollar . 
, but whether the main reason was dollar intervention , the gloomy reports on manufacturing employment , or the Friday 13 market drop , only Mr. Greenspan and his associates know . 
and thereby risking excessive inflation and unemployment and inadequate capital formation . '' 
It has also been a week when inside-the-beltway Washington has had a high old time gnawing over ex-President Reagan 's multimillion-dollar junket in Japan . 
and the way we have handled it in the nation 's capital has done nothing to dispel that impression . 
and the way we have handled it in the nation 's capital has done nothing to dispel that impression . 
In fact , however , Mr. Reagan 's casual debasement of the office he so recently held raises issues about which Americans can actually do something . 
In fact , however , Mr. Reagan 's casual debasement of the office he so recently held raises issues about which Americans can actually do something . 
and Egon Krenz was not backed unanimously by his fellow party functionaries when he took over as East Germany 's new maximum leader . 
when he took over as East Germany 's new maximum leader . 
, or so the hundreds of thousands of Eastern Europeans in the streets seem to hope and are certainly demanding . 
And , last but not least , President George Bush now views the changes in Eastern Europe as `` absolutely extraordinary '' and believes that Mr. Krenz `` ca n't turn the clock back '' in East Germany because the change is too inexorable , '' as he told the New York Times 's R.W. Apple Jr . 
because the change is too inexorable , '' as he told the New York Times 's R.W. Apple Jr . 
-LRB- In other words , after some highly visible dithering and public airing of differences , the administration has come down on the side of those who believe that what we are witnessing from Berlin to Siberia is a good thing to be welcomed , rather than a new thing to be feared or viewed with suspicion . -RRB- 
, assuming that events do n't make it seem a bad joke , when the record of this time is put down . 
For journalists , however , who write what they fondly view as history 's first draft , this has also been a week to give a lot of space and time to Ron and Nancy 's sales appearance in Japan on behalf of a communications giant and its controversial founder . 
For journalists , however , who write what they fondly view as history 's first draft , this has also been a week to give a lot of space and time to Ron and Nancy 's sales appearance in Japan on behalf of a communications giant and its controversial founder . 
, or so it is reported and at least one estimate puts the total tab at $ 7 million . 
and at least one estimate puts the total tab at $ 7 million . 
, but at the end of the affair , there was just the tiniest nagging worry that we had been aiming at the wrong target . 
-LRB- and some would say thereafter as well -RRB- . 
, and why should anyone expect anything more ? 
Primarily because there 's more to the matter than Ronald Reagan 's personal values , or lack of them . 
, '' and it has been whistled with gusto from Wall Street to some of the highest peaks of televangelism . 
when it comes to the dichotomy between what is professed and what is practiced . 
and what is practiced . 
But if it was the national disease in 1906 , it is today the national commonplace . 
. 
. 
. 
. 
And if you are caught or if people complain , simply argue that `` everyone does it '' or `` no one said I should n't '' and brazen it out . 
. 
or if people complain , simply argue that `` everyone does it '' or `` no one said I should n't '' and brazen it out . 
. 
'' or `` no one said I should n't '' and brazen it out . 
. 
and you are pinned , apologize for having disappointed those who trusted you but deny having actually done anything wrong . 
but deny having actually done anything wrong . 
-LRB- See , for instance , Jim Bakker 's remarks upon being sentenced to prison this Tuesday for defrauding the faithful . -RRB- 
, and that apparently is n't going to change . 
Thus , no standards , no judgment and no values . 
because he 's making so much money , '' say President Reagan 's defenders . 
because he has demeaned the office we gave him , enlisting it in the service of private gain , just as we ought to be mad that public officials lie through their teeth , play disingenuous games about their activities or , to steal a phrase , make public service a private trough . 
, and it is a defensible position . 
But there is no defense at all for the ethos of the 1980s . 
, and now we have as its quintessential symbol a former president huckstering for a foreign poohbah . 
Or perhaps that is a fitting symbol for the United States of 1989 : Everything for sale ; nothing of real value . 
before offering C$ 16.40 a share to acquire all of Cineplex 's shares outstanding . 
and that until an offer is made the board will continue seeking higher offers from other bidders . 
. 
. 
unless a higher offer is made by another bidder . 
, while Bronfman interests hold about 24 % of the company 's equity . 
, and it 's for all of the company . '' 
, but the question of financing still remains . '' 
, but the question of financing still remains . '' 
and then lease back to Cineplex its 18-screen theater complex in Universal City , Calif. , if Mr. Drabinsky succeeds in an offer . 
Calif. , if Mr. Drabinsky succeeds in an offer . 
In addition , the directors said if a bid by Mr. Drabinsky is successful , Cineplex expects Rank Organisation PLC to acquire the 51 % of Cineplex 's Film House unit it does n't own , and provide Mr. Drabinsky with additional loan financing . 
. 
and that investors will need a solid offer before the stock begins to rise again . 
before the stock begins to rise again . 
Also , BASF AG , another large chemicals company , said it formed a separate division that will study the environmental impact of plastics and will investigate all possibilities of recycling plastics . 
. 
And Japan 's minister of agriculture , forestry and fisheries told a committee of Japan 's parliament that Washington 's proposal was impractical and that Tokyo would continue to heavily subsidize its rice farmers . 
and that Tokyo would continue to heavily subsidize its rice farmers . 
But the EC reacted defiantly , arguing that the proposal 's main aim is to destroy the Common Agricultural Policy , the EC 's $ 28 billion-a-year price support program . 
The U.S. proposal also was criticized by food-importing developing countries , who said that the U.S. made no special allowances for poor nations . 
. 
, the poorest nations are likely to need help in the meantime . 
that , together with existing tariffs , then would be phased out over 10 years . 
But the EC is strongly opposed to converting agricultural supports into tariffs . 
The new U.S. package also says countries could temporarily raise tariffs on certain products if they experience an unusually heavy volume of imports . 
if they experience an unusually heavy volume of imports . 
, while the U.S. , with a population of about 245 million , has only two million farmers . 
, even though foreign producers are far more efficient . 
However , Control Data would continue to provide maintenance services for customers of its Cyber product line . 
But Judge Leval felt constrained by an earlier decision of the Second Circuit Court forbidding a biographer of J.D. Salinger to quote from Mr. Salinger 's personal letters . 
Still the Salinger decision created a strong presumption against fair use of unpublished materials . 
and therefore infringed copyright . 
and therefore infringed copyright . 
But the proper remedy , Judge Leval said , lay in a suit for damages , not in an injunction . 
And the injunction Judges Miner and Altimari would so readily have granted had New Era sued in time ? 
and thus involve the First Amendment . 
Moreover , and here Judge Oakes went to the heart of the question , `` Responsible biographers and historians constantly use primary sources , letters , diaries , and memoranda . 
Indeed , it would be irresponsible to ignore such sources of information . '' 
And of course they agree that people can impose restrictions on the use of their papers , whether in their own possession or as donated or sold to libraries . 
But in the `` Bare-Faced Messiah '' case the author found most of his material in court records or via the Freedom of Information Act . 
And when responsible scholars gain legitimate access to unpublished materials , copyright should not be permitted to deny them use of quotations that help to establish historical points . 
. 
Yet at the moment they are the judges who are making the law . 
. '' 
, '' but publishers , I understand , take it to mean about 50 words . 
, later published in book form by Knopf under the title `` In the Freud Archives . '' 
Mr. Masson then brought a libel suit against Ms. Malcolm , the New Yorker and Knopf . 
and , as proof of malice , Mr. Masson contended that defamatory quotations ascribed to him by Ms. Malcolm were in fact fabricated . 
, and the two judges who decided the case for Ms. Malcolm and her publishers conceded that , for the purpose of their decision , `` we assume the quotations were deliberately altered . '' 
But Judge Arthur Alarcon , joined by Judge Cynthia Holcomb Hall , took the astonishing position that it is perfectly OK to fabricate quotations so long as a judge finds that the fabrications do not alter substantive content or are rational interpretations of ambiguous remarks . 
. 
. '' 
Ms. Malcolm , for example , wrote that Mr. Masson described himself as `` the greatest analyst who ever lived . '' No such statement appears on the tapes . 
But , as Judge Kozinski noted , the context shows that Mr. Masson 's `` me alone '' remark referred not to his alleged pre-eminence in his profession but to the fact that his position on a particular issue was not shared by anyone else . 
and that in any case it was not defamatory . 
But it is not Janet Malcolm who calls him such : his own words reveal this psychological profile . '' 
, but the defendants , and the profession to which they belong , have lost far more . '' 
But writing history is tough enough without judges gratuitously throwing obstacles in the scholar 's path . 
, and his conviction was reversed on appeal because the fine was excessive under Tennessee law . 
because the fine was excessive under Tennessee law . 
And so it seems to be with the case of Elizabeth Morgan , the Washington , D.C. , plastic surgeon jailed in a child custody case for refusing to reveal the whereabouts of her daughter . 
Instead , it turns on the disputed and elusive facts of `` who did what to whom . '' 
So we must look elsewhere for an explanation of the unusual power this case has exerted over the minds of many , not just in Washington but elsewhere in the country and even the world . 
But although Thurber did so gently and lightheartedly , many of Dr. Morgan 's supporters have taken Thurber 's memorable title `` The Male Animal '' quite literally . 
. 
? 
Or that the president would have hurried to sign the bill `` out of compassion for her plight '' ? 
Finally , the case of Dr. Morgan gave Congress an opportunity to act with unaccustomed decisiveness and to engage in one of its favorite pastimes -- bashing the District of Columbia government . 
, and congressmen read the same newspapers and watch the same TV newscasts as other people in the area do . 
Yet a bill tailored to the interests of a single individual passed Congress with almost unimaginable speed , before the judicial process had run its course , and , indeed , while the Morgan case was awaiting a ruling by the appellate court . 
, before the judicial process had run its course , and , indeed , while the Morgan case was awaiting a ruling by the appellate court . 
, and , indeed , while the Morgan case was awaiting a ruling by the appellate court . 
, before the judicial process had run its course , and , indeed , while the Morgan case was awaiting a ruling by the appellate court . 
The Morgan case thus tells us much more about the current state of sex , class , race and politics in our society than it does about the facts of Dr. Morgan 's particular situation . 
The proposal , however , was immediately rebuffed by Arby 's parent , DWG Corp . 
Meanwhile , net at GM 's finance arm , General Motors Acceptance Corp. , fell 3.1 % . 
By contrast , Electronic Data Systems Corp. , GM 's data processing subsidiary , boosted net 16 % . 
Even excluding the charge , however , net fell 5 % . 
In addition , GM 's North American vehicle production fell 8.4 % from a year ago , which hurt Delco Electronic 's earnings , a company spokesman said . 
They are also indirectly subject to approval by the state of New Hampshire , where residents fear soaring rates to pay for the cost of reorganization . 
and also proposes a formula to limit rate increases to satisfy the state . 
, because the company 's stockholders , unsecured creditors and regulators each are currently backing different plans . 
In addition , some of the proposals are so close , that non-financial issues such as timing may play a more important role . 
They previously had backed an internal reorganization plan proposed by PS of New Hampshire . 
United Illuminating 's plan , however , offers more for unsecured creditors . 
In addition , they would receive some $ 200 million in payments for interest since then . 
PS of New Hampshire preferred holders also would get certain debentures and preferred stock . 
, although PS of New Hampshire changed its rate proposal . 
and PS of New Hampshire values its reorganization plan at $ 2.2 billion . 
However , creditors and bidders alike concede that the state plays a major role because it could significantly delay final settlement of a plan it did n't like . 
because it could significantly delay final settlement of a plan it did n't like . 
Fuel cost adjustments could change the effective rate increases , however . 
Previously it had proposed seven years of 5.5 % increases . 
United Illuminating also amended its rate plan . 
Previously United Illuminating had also called for seven years of 5.5 % increases . 
if their jobs were changed or they were dismissed in the wake of a takeover . 
or they were dismissed in the wake of a takeover . 
But the lack of lines became painfully apparent . 
. 
, and the market-monitoring computer has been moved next to his desk . 
soon after coming into office . 
But unlike Mr. Ruder , who during the 1987 crash damaged himself by saying rather offhandedly that the markets might be closed , Mr. Breeden is turning the market drop to his own advantage , using it to further his agenda for the SEC . 
Also unlike Mr. Ruder , Mr. Breeden appears to be in a position to get somewhere with his agenda . 
But Mr. Breeden , a 39-year-old securities lawyer , has skirted some of the heftier issues facing the financial markets . 
For instance , he has n't stated a clear position on high-risk , high-yield junk bonds , an area of growing concern as turmoil in the junk market spills over into stocks . 
He also has kept a close wrap on the names of people under consideration for the crucial post of enforcement director at the commission , a job vacant since the summer . 
, and the relationship generally remains warm . 
Indeed , during Mr. Breeden 's confirmation hearing last month , senators asked him to introduce his children three separate times -- more often than they asked about his qualifications for the job . 
Not everyone has jumped on the Breeden bandwagon , however . 
, but my sense is if you had n't had Richard Breeden there , it would n't have made much of a difference . '' 
. '' 
when told to do so by the White House . 
But Mr. Breeden already has shown an eagerness to run the SEC his way . 
, which by then was next to his desk . 
Mr. Breeden also is trying to use a far more catastrophic event -- the California earthquake -- to move another rule change past Congress . 
, mainly because regional exchanges fear the change could bankrupt them . 
, and a proud employee says Mazda hopes to move the system out of the lab and into its cars in a year or two . 
But this biennial event , the world 's largest display of cars and trucks , has its serious side , including the first major exhibitions of future engines and vehicle-suspension systems . 
It 's also the prime showcase for a country whose world dominance in the industry is increasingly acknowledged , and therein lies the draw . 
, and therein lies the draw . 
, but the Tokyo show is international . 
as Motor City executives , including Ford Motor Co. Chairman Donald E. Petersen and Chrysler Corp. Vice Chairman Gerald Greenwald , flocked to see the future . 
, and what the foreign visitors saw . 
, but active suspension provides power to counter the jolts . 
, and Toyota 's Celica coupe will go on sale with the suspension device next spring . 
But drivers in the U.S. must wait : The Japanese , for now , are keeping active suspension for domestic use only . 
And Detroit 's Big Three auto makers say their systems are still under development . 
and yet take up only half the space , allowing for shorter hoods . 
By contrast , the pistons in conventional four-stroke engines must move up and down twice in each power cycle . 
U.S. , but Honda officials would n't comment . 
, but it is n't always clear whether it 's intentional . 
But the sponsors have an explanation : `` Through the character associated with a snail , '' they say , `` important values such as harmony with nature and aspirations for the future are sought . '' 
, but this year the practice seems to have reached a new high -- or low . 
But the court jester appears to be Japan 's smallest car maker , Daihatsu Motor Co . 
Daihatsu also has the Fellow 90 , the Leeza Spider and the Hijet Dumbo . 
The jokes are n't just on the Japanese , though . 
, but in Japanese it means `` eyeglasses . '' 
, and it includes a boxy Buick station wagon with wood-grain side panels . 
Ford and Chrysler also have exhibits , although theirs are tucked in a separate room with the less-popular automotive parts section . 
, although theirs are tucked in a separate room with the less-popular automotive parts section . 
Ford officials , for example , crowed about their first-ever Tokyo Grand Prix racing victory . 
, but only after the Honda driver who crossed the finish line first was disqualified because it hit another car and skid momentarily out of bounds . 
, but only after the Honda driver who crossed the finish line first was disqualified because it hit another car and skid momentarily out of bounds . 
because it hit another car and skid momentarily out of bounds . 
Mr. Jordan of GM , meanwhile , still criticizes Japanese styling . 
, while the Democrats maintain that an increase in the top income-tax rate and expanded IRAs will raise revenue and spur savings . 
But James Ireland , a Miami-based technical analyst with Avmark Inc. , an aircraft evaluation firm , estimated the total `` half-life '' value of the 15 planes at about $ 650 million or more . 
Mr. Ireland said 11 DC10-30 aircraft that PWA also said it plans to sell , beginning in 1992 , have a current half-life value of about $ 34 million each , or a total $ 374 million , raising aggregate potential proceeds from the aircraft sale to about $ 1.02 billion . 
, partly because surging orders for new aircraft have lengthened waiting lists . 
Under its revised fleet plan , PWA said it will also increase its existing fleet of eight Boeing 767-300ER aircraft to 18 by 1994 , and add four more Boeing 747-400s by 1994 to the two units that it previously planned to add by next year . 
, but a Toronto-based analyst estimated it at about $ 450 million -LRB- US -RRB- , excluding replacement costs for the 11 DC10-30 aircraft that PWA plans to sell , and purchase costs for as many as 17 Airbus 320-200 aircraft that PWA previously ordered . 
PWA said it also expects to announce by Tuesday whether it will take delivery of all 17 Airbus 320-200 aircraft it previously ordered . 
. 
, but he said doing so will inflict some short-term pain and will require reducing the federal deficit sharply . 
, but it would have costs , '' Mr. Greenspan told Rep. Neal 's monetary policy subcommittee . 
But the Fed is n't enthusiastic about Treasury efforts to bring down the value of the dollar through intervention in foreign-exchange markets , and the Treasury is frustrated at the Fed 's reluctance to cut interest rates to pull down the dollar 's value . 
, and the Treasury is frustrated at the Fed 's reluctance to cut interest rates to pull down the dollar 's value . 
, but I do suspect that there might be some modest loss of economic output . '' 
In other words , economic growth would be lower and unemployment would be higher for a few years . 
and unemployment would be higher for a few years . 
But Mr. Greenspan , who has repeatedly said the Fed 's goal is to reduce inflation , added that `` whatever losses are incurred in the pursuing of price stability would surely be more than made up in increased output thereafter . '' 
would surely be more than made up in increased output thereafter . '' 
-- and could produce `` a major financial crunch '' -- unless they are accompanied by a significant reduction in the federal deficit , which causes the government to borrow heavily . 
and to maintain a zero inflation rate thereafter . 
Reps. Hamilton and Dorgan also have altered their bill , dropping a proposal to add the Treasury secretary to the 12-member Fed committee that makes monetary policy . 
Instead , the bill simply calls for twice-a-year meetings between the committee and top administration officials . 
because it might subject the Fed `` to a more intensely political perspective '' and `` could risk bending monetary policy away from long-term strategic goals . '' 
, Mr. Greenspan said . 
Mr. Greenspan also said that although he favors cutting capital-gains taxes as sound economic policy , he would oppose such a move if it would undo the political compromise embodied in the Tax Reform Act of 1986 and result in higher marginal income tax rates . 
. 
if it would undo the political compromise embodied in the Tax Reform Act of 1986 and result in higher marginal income tax rates . 
The show also signals Mr. Vila 's return as a television celebrity . 
after a sponsor protested some of his numerous commercial endorsements . 
But Home Depot Inc. , an Atlanta-based home center chain , objected when Mr. Vila started doing commercial endorsements for Rickel Home Centers , a New Jersey building supply company that competes with Home Depot in some markets . 
when Mr. Vila started doing commercial endorsements for Rickel Home Centers , a New Jersey building supply company that competes with Home Depot in some markets . 
. 
But they are already objecting to , among other things , a plan to give more weight to cost-benefit considerations in evaluating pesticides . 
, and the apple industry has said that growers already have stopped using the chemical . 
In addition , the principles attempt to eliminate the so-called Delaney Paradox . 
if it causes cancer in laboratory animals . 
Under other laws applying to pesticide use , however , that same chemical could be allowed to be used on fresh food if it fell within the EPA 's tolerance level . 
if it fell within the EPA 's tolerance level . 
once the federal government has set a standard . 
, but those that fall below these levels would be allowed . 
if the benefits of doing so outweigh the cost . 
after the proposed buy-out of UAL Corp. once again collapsed . 
until it regains some semblance of stability . 
. 
, traders nevertheless said action also was much slower yesterday in the Treasury market . 
Although bond prices were n't as volatile on Tuesday trading as stock prices , traders nevertheless said action also was much slower yesterday in the Treasury market . 
But an unexpected deviation either way could roil bond and currency markets . 
But advancing issues on the Big Board were ahead of decliners 784 to 700 . 
, but also that it could be corrected . 
, but also that it could be corrected . 
-- and stadiums probably would remain full -- if schedules were reduced and the games returned to the students , we said . 
-- and stadiums probably would remain full -- if schedules were reduced and the games returned to the students , we said . 
and the games returned to the students , we said . 
. 
, and so would a lot of my counterparts at other schools , but everybody 's afraid to make the first move , '' he confided . 
, but everybody 's afraid to make the first move , '' he confided . 
And so our institutions of higher learning lurch from scandal to scandal on gridiron and basketball court , while the casualties mount . 
And so our institutions of higher learning lurch from scandal to scandal on gridiron and basketball court , while the casualties mount . 
, while the casualties mount . 
'' when he approached . 
, until he resigned a few years later , pleading ill health , when the stuff hit the fan . 
, pleading ill health , when the stuff hit the fan . 
while others said theirs brought only a few hundred dollars -RRB- , and when Mr. Keteyian ca n't nail down something , like who really owned a car driven by Husker tailback Doug Dubose , he simply reprints his notes . 
, and when Mr. Keteyian ca n't nail down something , like who really owned a car driven by Husker tailback Doug Dubose , he simply reprints his notes . 
. 
, even though the Nebraska assistant coach quoted denied making it . 
Still , the book produces more smoke than a smoldering sofa , along with a few flames , especially concerning the use of steroids . 
. 
before the police could arrive -LRB- the order was n't carried out -RRB- , and the school 's athletics director issued false information about the academic standing of Bias and other players . 
, and the school 's athletics director issued false information about the academic standing of Bias and other players . 
But `` the check arrived in the mail , '' said Stephen Kidder , Massachusetts Commissioner of Revenue . 
partly because it sells its cars at a dock in Baltimore and not in Massachusetts , did n't explain its change of heart . 
Mercedes-Benz also agreed to pay taxes owed for the years 1986 through 1988 , Mr. Kidder added . 
if the company conducts a variety of non-sales activities , including warranties , customer complaints and relations with independent dealerships . 
Stores in upper-income neighborhoods , for instance , will carry high-priced wines , publications such as Vanity Fair , gourmet pasta sauces , oat bran cereals and Weight Watchers and Pritikin products . Stores in Hispanic areas will stock an assortment of Spanish-language magazines , Mexican cooking items and candies . Stores in the company 's core middle-class market will get more frozen and quick-to-prepare foods and a greater selection of bottled water . 
, though analysts note that Southland Corp. , owner of 7-Eleven stores , and Circle K Corp. are too debt-heavy to roll out such an extensive effort . 
Still , Southland said that its franchisees have been targeting their merchandise to their customers for years , and that the company has begun to follow suit . 
, and that the company has begun to follow suit . 
For instance , Southland has expanded its bottled water selection in some stores and added fresh sandwiches in some outlets . 
Several months ago , it also added black health and beauty aids displays to many stores , a spokeswoman said . 
after Pittston refused to sign the UMW 's national labor pact . 
, but meetings are expected to begin soon . 
. 
and the company forecast a `` significant '' drop next year in sales of its core product . 
, a Delmed spokeswoman said , after the American Stock Exchange alerted the company that trading would n't resume in its stock until additional information about developments was provided . 
until additional information about developments was provided . 
In addition to the forecast , the company also said it is examining potential cost cuts and reductions in overhead . 
Following that announcement Tuesday , however , company officials were unavailable to elaborate . 
, although Delmed said it will continue to provide some supplies of the peritoneal dialysis products to National Medical , the spokeswoman said . 
Nonetheless , `` Delmed currently expects that 1990 sales ... will be significantly below their 1989 level , '' the company said in a statement . 
and that the company is investigating other possible distribution channels . 
The transaction also would combine Fresenius USA and Delmed . 
But the plan now is being `` reformulated , '' Delmed said , declining to provide most of the new terms of the combination . 
Delmed also would receive the North American rights to certain Fresenius AG products . 
But July 5 , a thunderstorm in Wilmington , Del. , caused Shellpot Creek to rise 15 feet , pouring 1.3 million gallons of water into basement vaults . The water destroyed about $ 75 million in currency and caked $ 4 million of coins with mud , rendering them dangerous to counting machines . 
. 
But Brooks was unable to reach a coin-cleaning agreement with the government . 
because it was n't mutilated , and the Federal Reserve Bank accepts only clean coins , he says . 
, and the Federal Reserve Bank accepts only clean coins , he says . 
But Brooks declined , figuring that transporting the mucked up money to Washington would cost the company thousands more . 
So Brooks gave the dirty work to Coin Wrap Inc. , which came up with an unusual solution . 
, the coins are then rewrapped . 
And while the job is half done , Brooks is still bitter . 
. 
In fact , there 's only one person involved who 's happy , and that 's Floyd String , president of Coin Wrap and conceiver of the cement-truck solution . 
, and that 's Floyd String , president of Coin Wrap and conceiver of the cement-truck solution . 
, but when the approach was suggested , Mr. String says , Brooks officials `` did n't laugh at me or anything . 
. 
And why not ? 
. 
Yet too many people working in Hollywood today seem to suffer from the delusion that the drama played out in every home will be interesting to people who live somewhere else . 
Yet there will be people who will sob at `` Immediate Family , '' a limply constructed and offensive movie about adoption . 
and they ca n't , so now they want a child more than anything -- perhaps even more than Michael wanted his fancy convertible or his deluxe stereo equipment . 
, so now they want a child more than anything -- perhaps even more than Michael wanted his fancy convertible or his deluxe stereo equipment . 
, since the wealthy offspring of their friends are shown to be rude brats , in therapy by age five . 
-- or maybe they 're not-so-subtly commenting on the inadequacy of the script , and Jonathan Kaplan 's -LRB- `` The Accused '' -RRB- dull direction . 
Or maybe they are disgusted by the literal-minded musical score ; when a character arrives at a major decision her thoughts are revealed by the sound of `` I Can See Clearly Now . '' 
. '' 
, so Linda and Michael pay for pregnant Lucy 's -LRB- Ms. Masterson -RRB- bus ticket from Ohio . 
, when Lucy has the baby and `` did n't know she would feel like this '' and wants to keep the baby . 
But in the end , everything turns out for the best , in the film makers ' warped view . 
So it 's entirely possible that `` Look Who 's Talking '' is n't as entertaining as it seems in comparison to the turgid other films opening now . 
But by comparison , this fluffy comedy seems like a gem . 
But by comparison , this fluffy comedy seems like a gem . 
, then progresses to the baby 's point of view . 
, and that 's all you get of him here , speaking for the baby . 
But then , even a great many words could n't summarize the extraordinary pull of this movie about an orphaned bear who adopts a parent . 
But then , even a great many words could n't summarize the extraordinary pull of this movie about an orphaned bear who adopts a parent . 
John C. Marous , chairman and chief executive officer , also said the company expects sales from continuing businesses to rise 8.5 % annually through the next three years . 
while acquiring 55 businesses . 
, '' Mr. Marous said . 
. 
Westinghouse also is well positioned to sell steam turbine and gas turbine plants to independent power producers . 
Westinghouse also expects its international sales to soon grow to 25 % of total corporate sales from 20 % last year . 
Company officials also said that any gain from the sale of Westinghouse 's 55 % stake in its transmission and distribution venture with the Swiss firm of Asea Brown Boveri will be offset by a restructuring charge in the fourth quarter . 
. 
But the guidelines could `` make it impossible to commercialize research , '' says Kenneth Smith , associate provost and vice president for research at Massachusetts Institute of Technology . 
, if their research yields a commercial product . 
But because the University of California , like many other universities , shares its royalties with researchers , it may disqualify itself from federal funds under the proposed guidelines , Mr. Daly says . 
, Mr. Daly says . 
For instance , Commonwealth BioVentures Inc. , a venture-capital concern , last month invested $ 600,000 to launch Amira Inc. , a Worcester , Mass. , concern that will produce pharmaceuticals . 
. 
, '' says Gloria W. Doubleday of Commonwealth . 
But the new guidelines could prevent scientists like Prof. Schimmel from being involved with start-ups such as Amira , venture capitalists point out . 
And if that happens , the entire process of transferring technology to the marketplace could be harmed , they say . 
, they say . 
because `` we had exclusive rights to those technologies , '' he adds . 
But under the proposed guidelines , all federally funded research will have to be reported publicly so that anyone can capitalize on the work . 
so that anyone can capitalize on the work . 
Last year , for example , Avalon and others invested $ 14 million in Athena Neurosciences Inc. , South San Francisco , Calif. , to license and develop technology for delivery of drugs to the brain . 
But before Athena was able to get an exclusive license to the technology , the Federal Register published most of the details , `` giving all of the company 's potential competitors a chance to exploit it , '' Mr. Bock says . 
, '' Mr. Bock says . 
But , says Mr. Bock , `` It was a close call . '' 
The proposed guidelines could also delay commercialization -- and force small companies to waste scarce capital , entrepreneurs say . 
, '' says Ruth Emyanitoff , manager of business development at Applied bioTechnology Inc. , a Cambridge , Mass. , concern . 
Many officials are also concerned about companies getting a `` free ride '' on government-sponsored research . 
But when agencies like the NIH circulate guidelines , they 've often already formulated policy , veteran scientists say . 
, veteran scientists say . 
Indeed , institutions already are taking note . 
The University of California at San Francisco is also circulating a memo among its scientific faculty that will restrict contact with the world of business . 
until the NIH policy is settled . 
, so check local listings -RRB- : `` Show Boat . '' 
, although the music has lasted better than the plot or the humor . 
, but it resonates with the terrible dynamics of the Latin American drug wars . 
But no one could disagree that Ken Burns has made a fascinating film about this famous American painter . 
, and this one is outstanding . 
when you see the stunning footage taken from inside a hurricane 's eye , in this edition of `` NOVA . 
and has also announced its intention to sell its B. Altman & Co. department store chain . 
, but the company itself will belong to Sam Merksamer . '' 
, '' but also said that `` our inability to obtain trade credit , combined with a need to ensure that our stores were properly stocked for the Christmas season , necessitated our filing Chapter 11 . '' 
, but its stock purchases were thought to have begun Tuesday , timed to coincide with the maturity this week of Treasury bills owned by the firm . 
, although the broker 's client was said then to have been Japanese . 
, although the broker 's client was said then to have been Japanese . 
; to make buy or sell moves , the firm solicits Wall Street brokerage houses a day or so in advance , looking for the best package price to carry out the trades . 
, but instead profits by buying or selling for less than the overall package price . 
if it 's trying to buy stock in a rising market . 
when Renaissance 's computer found that stocks were overpriced compared with bonds and Treasury bills . 
, while Renaissance 's portfolio of Treasurys produced a return of about 6 % through the first three quarters of the year . 
, while Renaissance has played it safe with Treasury bills . 
, where it closed yesterday , when it did n't with the Dow at 2200 ? 
Stock prices , meanwhile , are about 140 points lower than the peak of 2791.41 reached on the Dow industrial average Oct. 9 . 
. 
if it tipped its hand . 
But everything is relative to Mr. Terrizzi , so stocks in his view can become more attractive in comparison with bonds or T-bills , even if shares are more expensive than when they were sold in January . 
, so stocks in his view can become more attractive in comparison with bonds or T-bills , even if shares are more expensive than when they were sold in January . 
, even if shares are more expensive than when they were sold in January . 
. 
, as the computer searches for the most undervalued investment category , following a money-management style called tactical asset allocation . 
, so some have been partly or fully invested in stocks this year while Renaissance has sat on the sidelines . 
while Renaissance has sat on the sidelines . 
As a result , competitors say Renaissance has been looking for any opportunity to return to the stock market , rather than risk losing business by continuing to remain fully invested in Treasury bills . 
, and the firm has added new accounts . 
'' just as the company filed for bankruptcy-law protection , has been temporarily reappointed to both positions , the company said . 
Qintex Entertainment also said Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer Jonathan Lloyd , 37 years old , would join the nine-member board . 
, the company said . 
. 
And the relationship between Qintex Entertainment and the Australian company appears to be quickly deteriorating . 
But early on Oct. 19 , the second of two hectic days of board meetings , Mr. Evans said he believed Qintex Australia would n't be forthcoming . 
But a majority of the board , which includes three members from the Australian company , overrode him . 
Separately , a Qintex Entertainment shareholder filed suit in federal court in Los Angeles charging Qintex Australia with misleading shareholders about Qintex Entertainment 's financial position . 
When Traveling Abroad '' because credit-card companies charge 1 % to convert foreign-currency expenditures into dollars . 
'' because credit-card companies charge 1 % to convert foreign-currency expenditures into dollars . 
In fact , this is the best bargain available to someone traveling abroad . 
before the trip starts will lose interest from the day of conversion . 
, and then has another couple of weeks before he has to pay the bill . 
before he has to pay the bill . 
In the meantime , the money can continue to earn interest for the card holder -- often more than 1 % during that `` float '' period alone . 
, and the refurbishment of the three DC-8-62 aircraft , made by McDonnell Douglas Corp. , will cost around $ 24.5 million . 
, and room rates will be between $ 35 and $ 55 a night , MGM Grand said . 
, although conceptual drawings , released this month , show that it may feature several `` themed '' areas similar to those found at parks built by Walt Disney Co . 
Meanwhile , the average yield on taxable funds dropped nearly a tenth of a percentage point , the largest drop since midsummer . 
and that current rates continue for a year , fell to 8.47 % , its lowest since late last year , from 8.55 % the week before , according to Donoghue 's . 
Individual investors can still get better yields on money funds than on many other short-term instruments . 
The yield on six-month Treasury bills sold at Monday 's auction , for example , was just 7.77 % . 
, so they can earn the current higher rates for a longer period . 
and they 're going to get them , slowly , '' said Walter Frank , chief economist for the Donoghue Organization , publisher of Money Fund Report . 
, and the average 30-day compound yield fell to 8.56 % from 8.60 % . 
, and the pain is worse because they did it with borrowed money . 
because they did it with borrowed money . 
Thus , the leverage has amplified the funds ' portfolio losses . 
And shares of leveraged junk funds this year have been clobbered even harder than the junk bonds they hold . 
because fear has taken hold '' in the junk market , he says . 
Leveraged funds in particular `` are still extremely vulnerable , because we 're still at the beginning of problems in the junk market , '' says George Foot , a managing partner at Newgate Management Associates in Northampton , Mass . 
, because we 're still at the beginning of problems in the junk market , '' says George Foot , a managing partner at Newgate Management Associates in Northampton , Mass . 
. 
; the leverage effectively acts as an interest-free margin account for investors . 
But when the market moves against the fund , investors lose more than other junk holders because the market decline is magnified by the amount the fund is leveraged . 
because the market decline is magnified by the amount the fund is leveraged . 
because the market decline is magnified by the amount the fund is leveraged . 
, '' he maintains . 
and each -LCB- bond -RCB- yields over that , it enhances the yield , '' he maintains . 
Yet some funds have pulled in their horns . 
'' when the market does n't cooperate . 
. 
because it would slash the income they pay shareholders , fund officials said . 
But a few funds have taken other defensive steps . 
when the market falls . 
Prospect Street High Income Portfolio , for instance , now holds about 15 % in cash and equivalents , nearly quintuple the amount it held earlier this year , says John Frabotta , portfolio co-manager . 
because cash is n't earning us very much money , '' Mr. Bianchi says . 
Because of the recent junk-market turmoil , the fund is considering investing in other issues instead , including mortgage-backed bonds . 
. 
. 
And if she and the Battery Park City Authority have their way , her horticulturally inept plan will soon go public as a real garden `` artwork '' in the downtown complex . 
. 
And she proved no shirking violet in her initial statement to the BPCA , a New York State public benefit corporation : `` The only thing I was interested in doing was a very complicated garden , which would cost an enormous amount of money and be very expensive to maintain . '' 
After four years , though , the South Gardens design is 100 % uncollaborated Jennifer Bartlett . 
, as if she were making one of her gridded two-dimensional works for a gallery wall . 
But for South Gardens , the grid was to be a 3-D network of masonry or hedge walls with real plants inside them . 
Moreover , she proclaimed that `` landscape architects have been going wrong for the last 20 years '' in the design of open space . 
And she further stunned her listeners by revealing her secret garden design method : Commissioning a friend to spend `` five or six thousand dollars ... on books that I ultimately cut up . '' 
`` because I do n't think you can do watered-down versions of things . '' 
, because the client had long since given in to Ms. Bartlett 's every whim . -RRB- 
, so 50 feet by 50 feet seemed like a good garden room . '' 
Furthermore , she had insisted on paths so narrow -LRB- five to eight feet -RRB- and hedge corners so square that standard maintenance equipment -- trucks or cherry pickers -- could n't maneuver . 
Then , to make these gardenettes quite literally rooms , Ms. Bartlett had thrown up windowless walls -LRB- brick , lattice , hedge -RRB- eight to 10 feet tall , casting her interiors into day-long Stygian shade . 
Finally , flouting the BPCA 's wishes to continue the popular two-mile riverside Esplanade , prized for its expansive views of New York Harbor , the Statue of Liberty and Ellis Island , Ms. Bartlett threw up yet another wall , this time concrete , this time 10 1\/2 feet tall . 
. 
, because it made people feel trapped . 
They then addressed the decidedly `` questionable safety of ... a complex garden of endless hiding places . 
And by substituting yet another landscape architect , Nicholas Quennell , he insists he can achieve that and other accommodations to gardening reality while still preserving the `` artistic vision '' of a `` truly great artist . '' 
while still preserving the `` artistic vision '' of a `` truly great artist . '' 
-LRB- Mr. Quennell has said he plans to go with the grid , regardless . -RRB- 
There is still time , however , for Gov. Mario Cuomo or Fabian Palomino , chairman of the BPCA board , to prevent this topiary `` Tilted Arc . '' 
These statesmen might take counsel from William Robinson , author of `` The English Flower Garden '' -- the gardener 's bible since 1883 -- who seems to have had a Jennifer Bartlett in mind when he wrote : `` Unhappily , our gardeners for ages have suffered at the hands of the decorative artist when applying his ` designs ' to the garden ... . It is this adapting of absurd ` knots ' and patterns from old books to any surface where a flower garden has to be made that leads to bad and frivolous design -- wrong in plan and hopeless for the life of plants . 
when applying his ` designs ' to the garden ... . 
, since the gold standard is one of my areas of research . 
when he states that the Soviet Union 's large gold reserves would give it `` great power to establish credibility . '' 
, but no one outside Russia used rubles . 
The Bank of England , on the other hand , had gold reserves that averaged about 30 % of its outstanding currency , and Bank of England notes were accepted throughout the world . 
, and Bank of England notes were accepted throughout the world . 
, and the common-law rights of creditors to collect claims against the bank were well established in Britain . 
By contrast , in 19th-century Russia an authoritarian government owned the bank and had the power to revoke payment whenever it chose , much as it would in today 's Soviet Union . 
, much as it would in today 's Soviet Union . 
and payment of gold for pound notes was never suspended , but with the subsequent nationalization of the Bank of England , the pound was devalued with increasing frequency and its use as an international medium of exchange declined . 
, but with the subsequent nationalization of the Bank of England , the pound was devalued with increasing frequency and its use as an international medium of exchange declined . 
and its use as an international medium of exchange declined . 
as it seeks to establish the ruble as an international currency . 
. 
Unless the laws determining the noteholder 's rights to payment are independent of the issuer of those notes , however , a gold-based ruble would be as unsuccessful for the Soviets as it was for the czars . 
. 
But the new chairman vehemently opposed a provision in the bill that would give the agency the right to close the markets at times of stress . 
and how long they will last . '' 
, and the agency is worried that a sharp market drop could create capital problems for the firms . 
He also backed a rule to require large traders to report transactions on a systematic basis . 
K mart previously had announced it would report its third consecutive decline in quarterly earnings for the period ended yesterday , the same day the real estate deal was completed . 
However , nationally , Mr. Pilevsky controls through limited partnerships about 85 shopping centers with about 17 million square feet . 
, nor do we have the space or the time , '' says a spokesman for the Schaumburg , Ill. , electronics company , which has 5,000 employees in the Austin area . 
, and some are saying they just are n't going to take it anymore -- literally . 
. 
, while Air Products & Chemicals , Allentown , Pa. , says it screens junk mail and often throws out most of a given mass mailing . 
. 
, and it 's increasing as companies attempt to put through budget cuts across the board , '' right down to the mail-room level , says Stephen Belth , a list consultant and chairman of the Direct Marketing Association 's business-to-business council . 
as companies attempt to put through budget cuts across the board , '' right down to the mail-room level , says Stephen Belth , a list consultant and chairman of the Direct Marketing Association 's business-to-business council . 
`` But it 's like biting the hand that feeds them , because every one of these companies uses direct marketing . '' 
, because every one of these companies uses direct marketing . '' 
, since the decision is usually made in the mail room -- not the board room . 
And the practice often varies from location to location even within a company . 
But industry executives say businesses seem especially inclined to dump mailers sent to titles rather than to individual names . 
, even if an individual 's name is listed ; employees who want their magazines have to pick them up from the mail room or the company library -- and are told to change the subscriptions to their home addresses . 
At Air Products , meanwhile , the mailroom staff opens junk mail and often throws it away -- even if addressed to an individual . 
-- even if addressed to an individual . 
, '' a spokesman says . 
when General Motors -- one of the country 's largest companies and a big direct-mail user itself -- entered the junk-mail battle . 
. 
Employees were told that if they really wanted the publications , they would have to have them sent home instead . 
-- even if the junk-mail kings did bring it on themselves . 
The practice is , however , legal in most cases . 
. 
And before it does , they 're trying to cut back on the clutter that created the situation in the first place . 
. 
But then again , mailing less and smarter wo n't be much help if the mail ends up in the garbage anyway . 
if the mail ends up in the garbage anyway . 
, and an announcer says , `` Listen to what they 're saying about the Hyundai Sonata . '' 
. 
if not given Chivas for Christmas . 
and then suddenly revived and was passed by the House . 
Nevertheless , Oregon Sen. Bob Packwood , the ranking GOP member on the tax-writing Senate Finance Committee , last night introduced his plan as an amendment to a pending measure authorizing U.S. aid for Poland and Hungary . 
and Sen. Mitchell saying he intended to use procedural means to block it again and again . 
. 
And Democrats , who are under increasing pressure from their leaders to reject the gains-tax cut , are finding reasons to say no , at least for now . 
It also would create a new individual retirement account that would shield from taxation the appreciation on investments made for a wide variety of purposes , including retirement , medical expenses , first-home purchases and tuition . 
unless it contributes to deficit-reduction , '' said Sen. Charles Robb -LRB- D. , Va. -RRB- , who is one of the 10 to 20 Democrats who the Bush administration believes might favor giving preferential treatment to capital gains . 
And at a luncheon meeting Tuesday of Democratic senators , there was outspoken opposition to cutting the capital-gains tax this year , according to participants . 
because they are loath to buck Sen. Mitchell . 
As a result , the officials said they are open to making a variety of deals with Senate Democrats to win their support for a capital-gains tax cut . 
In addition , White House aides think that there are numerous other important measures Democrats badly wanted passed -- such as the scaling back of a controversial catastrophic health-care plan for the elderly -- that might provide the president leverage in cutting deals with Democrats . 
. 
If they ca n't secure immediate passage of a capital-gains plan , administration officials also are n't ruling out making a deal with Congress to put off a vote until a firm date in the future , even next year . 
But the officials insist that such a deal on a future vote would have to apply to both the House and the Senate . 
, then sold at low prices to `` unscrupulous businessmen '' who resold them to the institute at inflated prices , the statement said . 
if Italy refuses to pay compensation for more than 30 years of colonial rule . 
if Rome does n't pay compensation . 
But officials in Rome say the issue was legally resolved by a settlement between Italy and King Idris , deposed by Col. Muammar Gadhafi in 1969 . 
They also wanted to prevent a NATO training base being built in the region , he said . 
after finding some contaminated by radiation , an official of the Ministry of Health and Welfare said . 
when they were switched from a specific brand-name medication to a generic one or from one generic manufacturer of a specific product to another . 
In addition , neurologists were beginning to report these observations as well . 
if you will . 
But no ethical physician would switch patients who were doing well on a specific medication from a specific manufacturer to prove a point . 
, and these symposiums do not stress any particular medication or manufacturer . 
But let us not confuse profits of big business masquerading as concerns for people 's health care or for the cost . 
when it opens in 1990 . 
. 
, if you create something so exciting that the public dreams of being part of it , then they 'll come , '' he says . 
, then they 'll come , '' he says . 
But Nevada state labor economists think a shortage is probable . 
, '' says Fred Benninger , chairman of MGM Grand . 
if my daughter had something else to do here , '' says Ms. Cokely , watching seven-year-old Kristin on the water slide at the Strip 's Wet 'n' Wild water park . 
, and more such facilities are being designed . 
Despite the new emphasis on the family trade , however , tourists in search of naughtier fun than gambling seem certain to find it , with Las Vegas call girls remaining on the scene . 
For now , however , the naysayers ' voices are drowned by the roar of cement mixers and the clanging of construction cranes along the Strip . 
, but at 7:30 on a recent morning , when construction choked traffic at the famous Four Corners intersection to one lane , a taxi passenger found it faster to abandon the cab and walk to her destination . 
Yet that has n't discouraged investors . 
. 
as the new projects open . 
, but after that you should see the market return to 80%-plus occupancy and regular rates , '' says Paul Rubeli , casino executive at Ramada Inc. , which runs the Tropicana . 
, but some securities analysts doubt it . 
, and customers still call it the Grand , rather than the Bally Grand . 
, but they 're going to have some real problems when everyone around them opens , '' says Daniel Lee , a Drexel analyst . 
when everyone around them opens , '' says Daniel Lee , a Drexel analyst . 
Older properties that still have a 1950s image are also vulnerable . 
, '' he says . 
`` But it 'll sure make you poorer . '' 
The company 's Excalibur will also appeal to families , of course . 
Instead , they are spending to reinforce the identity that they believe attracts their customers . 
. 
, who are also being aggressively courted by the Mirage , the Las Vegas Hilton and others . 
Other , smaller concerns are also pursuing market niches -- Hawaiian tourists , for example , or the local trade . 
`` But 93 % of tourists still come for gambling . 
; If he approve he shall sign it , but if not he shall return it , with his Objections to that House in which it shall have originated , who shall enter the Objections at large on their Journal , and proceed to reconsider it . 
, but if not he shall return it , with his Objections to that House in which it shall have originated , who shall enter the Objections at large on their Journal , and proceed to reconsider it . 
, but if not he shall return it , with his Objections to that House in which it shall have originated , who shall enter the Objections at large on their Journal , and proceed to reconsider it . 
, and if approved by two thirds of that House , it shall become a Law ... . 
If after such Reconsideration two thirds of that House shall agree to pass the Bill , it shall be sent , together with the Objections , to the other House , by which it shall likewise be reconsidered , and if approved by two thirds of that House , it shall become a Law ... . 
, and if approved by two thirds of that House , it shall become a Law ... . 
... . 
, or being disapproved by him , shall be repassed by two thirds of the Senate and House of Representatives , according to the Rules and Limitations prescribed in the Case of a Bill . 
when Marlin Fitzwater explained the constitutional argument based on the provisions above to the White House press corps . 
, but line-item-veto bait will be like earthworms at midnight in the coming Continuing Resolution . 
, thereby introducing monstrous CRs and eviscerating the presidential veto . 
, but there is something to be said for picking the best one possible . 
, but Congress blinked before it could go to court . 
before it could go to court . 
. 
. 
. 
There are also other provisions requiring Congressmen to join treaty-negotiating teams and new restrictions on OMB . 
, but the line-item veto is better understood as a political opportunity than as mere fodder for lawyers . 
And you can look to the leadership and ask them why that is the perception of the American people . '' 
now that we 're into Gramm-Rudman 's sequestration . 
, but that does n't mean the country must learn to live forever with this mess . 
, if only he will use it . 
KKR also signaled to the company 's creditors that Henry Kravis and other KKR directors of SCI TV would resign from the board once the restructuring is completed and forgo their voting rights . 
once the restructuring is completed and forgo their voting rights . 
But a spokesman for KKR says that with only a 15 % equity stake , it would n't be appropriate for KKR to keep board representation . 
, thus it is n't significantly affected by the company 's troubles . 
, while Mr. Gillett would surrender an 8 % stake . 
. 
It also would defer interest and principal on junk bonds that have fallen due ; the grace period for paying the bill expires Nov. 16 . 
Yet to pay that interest bill , analysts say SCI TV will only produce about $ 80 million to $ 90 million of cash flow a year . 
. 
when taken from the ground , can be turned blue by irradiation , which transforms it into a gemstone that looks like an aquamarine . 
But there is a small risk that some were imported with high radiation levels . '' 
, although he noted that double or even triple the U.S. limit is `` still in the range of safe levels . '' 
as 1992 unification nears . 
, but a visit to his Transylvania castle is part of a Chicago-based Unitours trip in the spring , presumably the count 's off-season . 
But it may have a good listener in Washington . 
The issues are also thought to be important to the FCC 's new chairman , Alfred Sikes , a former AM broadcaster in his native Missouri . 
because it can carry stereo broadcasts , has cornered the airwaves for delivering music . 
because it lacks a uniform delivery system . 
when the San Francisco earthquake and Hurricane Hugo cut power lines . 
But most of them , led by Morgan Stanley & Co. , moved back in earlier this year . 
, and it scares natural buyers '' of stock . 
. 
because they 're ruining the market . 
, ' so we finally said we 're not going to do business with them . '' 
Kemper also blasted the Big Board for ignoring the interests of individual and institutional holders . 
The Big Board also has a terrible communication problem with individual investors , '' he added . 
, but they -LCB- the exchange -RCB- ca n't do it , '' he said . 
, but that all the exchange can do is `` slow down the process '' by using its circuit breakers and shock absorbers . 
when the market is under stress , and we have recently , '' he said , citing Oct. 13 and earlier this week . 
, and we have recently , '' he said , citing Oct. 13 and earlier this week . 
But if this prompts others to consider the same thing , then it may become much more important . 
, then it may become much more important . 
There are also $ 29 million of 6 3\/4 % certificates due 2019 , priced to yield 7.10 % . 
, but it 's never been like this , '' says Mr. Levy , president of St. Gillian Group Ltd. , which has become a hot name thanks to a campaign of sexy TV commercials . 
And as the applause dies down in showrooms along Seventh Avenue and Broadway , stylishly clad Campeau buyers will begin writing orders . 
. 
But those dollars at risk pale in comparison to the investment required to make and ship spring goods to Campeau stores . 
if Campeau collapses between now and then ? '' 
before shipping . 
, but we are n't recommending any long-term lines of credit , '' says Richard Hastings , a retail credit analyst , referring to credit lines which make inventory purchases automatic . 
before shipping spring merchandise . 
, but we 're worried about tomorrow and will want '' letters of credit , says the sales director at one major dress maker who asked not to be identified . 
. '' 
If I need to ask for money up front later , I will . '' 
`` We 're confident we 'll be paying our bills for spring merchandise as well . '' 
. 
But manufacturers now buying fabric for spring season goods wo n't be paid until March , April or even May . 
, but we are considering asking them for letters of credit before we take more orders . '' 
before we take more orders . '' 
, but you also have to be able to collect . '' 
, and I ca n't give it to underperformers . '' 
unless they miss a payment . 
, '' he says . 
Separately , two more of the nation 's top steelmakers -- Armco Inc. and National Intergroup Inc. -- reported lower operating earnings in their steel businesses , marking what is generally believed to be the end of a two-year boom in the industry . 
In fact , he thinks several steelmakers will report actual losses through the third quarter of 1990 . 
, nor has it linked up with a joint venture partner to share costs and risks . 
However , in spite of the difficult industrywide environment of high cost and low volume , Bethlehem `` had pretty good earnings numbers , '' said Michelle Galanter Applebaum , an analyst with Salomon Brothers Inc . 
Still , Bethlehem 's core basic steel operations experienced a steep drop in operating profit to $ 58.6 million from $ 186.4 million a year ago , when the industry enjoyed strong demand and pricing . 
as the automotive sector remains weak and customers continue to adjust inventories , '' said Bethlehem Chairman Walter F. Williams . 
and customers continue to adjust inventories , '' said Bethlehem Chairman Walter F. Williams . 
He noted , however , that the company 's order entry has increased from the low levels of the early summer , following the end of labor negotiations . 
, because the company no longer consolidates its Eastern Steel division , which is now a joint venture with Kawasaki Steel Corp . 
when raw material costs of such key products as nickel dropped . 
Moreover , the company said higher sales and shipments to service centers from its Armco Steel Co. joint venture failed to offset weakness in the automotive market , higher production costs and a poorer product mix . 
However , its equity in the net income of National Steel declined to $ 6.3 million from $ 10.9 million as a result of softer demand and lost orders following prolonged labor talks and a threatened strike . 
IBM , which made the announcement at the dedication of a research center here , said it invited many other companies to participate as well , including some from Europe . 
Jack Kuehler , IBM 's president , said IBM is also considering letting other companies participate in additional semiconductor work but declined to be more specific . 
as it has tried to rally U.S. industry to head off the Japanese , who now dominate the market for dynamic random access memory chips . 
. 
And IBM worries that the Japanese will take over that equipment market , too , unless U.S. semiconductor companies produce enough memory chips here to keep U.S. equipment makers healthy . 
, unless U.S. semiconductor companies produce enough memory chips here to keep U.S. equipment makers healthy . 
IBM also said it expects to benefit from the expertise that Motorola and other companies can bring to bear on the difficult problems involved in semiconductor manufacturing . 
because semiconductor manufacturing has become so expensive . 
because the technology is so complex . 
And IBM said it expects the costs to continue climbing . 
But it said that was mainly because the project may not bear fruit until the mid-1990s . 
mainly because the project may not bear fruit until the mid-1990s . 
as the project progresses . 
But details on chips must now be extraordinarily fine , and the wavelengths of even ultraviolet light are long enough so that the images they draw may be too blurry -- much as someone using a wide paintbrush could produce a broad line but would have trouble painting a thin one . 
, and the wavelengths of even ultraviolet light are long enough so that the images they draw may be too blurry -- much as someone using a wide paintbrush could produce a broad line but would have trouble painting a thin one . 
so that the images they draw may be too blurry -- much as someone using a wide paintbrush could produce a broad line but would have trouble painting a thin one . 
X-rays , by contrast , travel straighter and can be focused more tightly than light . 
But , assuming those problems can be overcome , they should allow for memory chips that could approach one billion bits of information -- 250 times as much as is contained in the four-megabit chips that are just reaching the market and a million times what was possible in the mid-1970s . 
The system also provides course-correction advisories . 
Mr. Nadeau also is chairman and chief executive of Unigesco Inc. , Provigo 's controlling shareholder . 
. 
-LCB- and -RCB- his strategy did n't work , '' said Steven Holt , a financial analyst with Midland Doherty Ltd . 
only until the non-food businesses are sold , after a which a new chief executive will be named . 
, but the U.S. unit ended yesterday lower against most major currencies . 
He added , however , that inflation could be brought down `` close to zero '' without throwing the economy into a recession . 
as dealers squared positions ahead of today 's preliminary report on third-quarter U.S. gross national product . 
and then shift lower . 
But according to Doug Madison , a corporate trader with Bank of America in Los Angeles , a large number of short positions must first be corrected , spurring a temporary upswing , before the unit can turn lower . 
, spurring a temporary upswing , before the unit can turn lower . 
, although analysts are quick to point out that the figures may overstate the economy 's vigor . 
. 
Lawrence Insurance also sold 3.2 million of its shares for $ 7.125 each to its parent , Lawrence Group Inc . 
Lawrence Group also owns Lawrence Agency Corp. , Schenectady , N.Y. , an insurance agency and brokerage . 
But what happens next in the continuing takeover drama may depend more on the company 's two most powerful and fractious unions : the pilots and machinists . 
As a result , both may now have virtual veto power over any UAL transaction . 
before they agree to put up cash for any new bid or even a less-ambitious recapitalization plan . 
and that 's a very scary thing for a bank to be looking at . '' 
and that 's a very scary thing for a bank to be looking at . '' 
if another bid or recapitalization became possible . 
if a second buy-out attempt occurs . 
simply because their employer has yet to settle with either on new contracts . 
Thus , even investors who are pushing for the board to do a recapitalization that would pay shareholders a special dividend and possibly grant employees an ownership stake acknowledge that the unions are key . 
if it does n't move soon to increase shareholder value . 
But whether the pilots can team up with their longtime adversaries , the machinists , is another question . 
On the other hand , the machinists have always opposed majority ownership in principle , saying they do n't think employees should be owners . 
Still , in recent days , machinists ' union leaders have shown some new flexibility . 
. 
But at this point , that may just be wishful thinking . 
The pilots ' insistence on majority ownership also may make the idea of a recapitalization difficult to achieve . 
only if the pilots relent on their demand for control . 
She also notes that even if the pilots accept a minority stake now , they still could come back at a later time and try to take control . 
. 
, but instead told UAL 's advisers before the most-recent board meeting that it was working on a bid valued at between $ 225 and $ 240 a share . 
, but instead told UAL 's advisers before the most-recent board meeting that it was working on a bid valued at between $ 225 and $ 240 a share . 
But again , they may need the help of the machinists . 
, while profit per passenger grew 2 % . 
. 
Separately , America West Airlines , Phoenix , Ariz. , reported third-quarter profit jumped 45 % to $ 5.8 million , or 28 cents a share , from $ 4 million , or 24 cents a share , a year earlier . 
and some other newspapers are considering the idea . 
since film-makers Daniel Grodnik and Tim Matheson took control of National Lampoon Inc. in March . 
Columbia also added $ 227.3 million to reserves for losses on the portfolio , increasing general reserves to $ 300 million , or about 6.7 % of the total portfolio , as of Sept. 30 . 
, because it held the bonds as long-term investments . 
. 
The quarterly results also reflected $ 21.4 million in non-recurring losses from commercial real-estate activities in California . 
But he said Columbia remains `` one of the most strongly capitalized thrifts in the industry , '' based on the economic value of its assets and tangible capital . 
, when they traded at about $ 10 , as investors apparently realized that the thrift would be forced to take a big write-down . 
, because federal regulations , such as those that would allow thrifts to continue holding the bonds in separately capitalized subsidiaries , have n't yet been completed . 
Columbia officials also said the thrift should n't face problems meeting regulatory capital requirements , despite the large reserves and write-downs and stiffer regulatory requirements that should be in place by year 's end . 
, and total equity was $ 457.9 million . 
. 
Columbia also has unrealized gains in its public equity securities portfolio of more than $ 70 million . 
as the maturing industry 's growth continues to slow . 
With the passing of the heady days of swelling industry sales , however , the once-sporadic and brief forays into discounting are becoming standard competitive weapons in the beer industry . 
'' while consolidation creates fewer , bigger players . 
, and he just decided to join in the barroom brawl , '' said Joseph J. Doyle , an analyst with Smith Barney , Harris Upham & Co . 
But Smith Barney 's Mr. Doyle , who yesterday trimmed his 1990 Anheuser earnings projection to $ 2.95 a share from $ 3.10 , called the market 's reaction `` justified . '' 
. 
But losers were spread in a broad range by the end of the session . 
Dealers said they also took profits to reduce holdings in their own account at the end of the October transaction period . 
, and Mochida fell 150 to 4,290 . 
Daiwa House also ended easier , but Misawa Home was firmer . 
, but Misawa Home was firmer . 
, and Sony lost 40 to 8,550 , down 10 % from its record set Oct. 11 . 
, although the market was underpinned near the end of the session by Wall Street 's firmer trend . 
, dealers added , after Wall Street showed signs of stability following its rocky opening . 
after Ford Motor 's announcement Tuesday that it might be prepared to mount a full bid for the U.K. luxury auto maker . 
as Tuesday 's gyrations on Wall Street , where the Dow Jones Industrial Average recovered most of an 80-point loss , fueled fears of another stock market crash , brokers said . 
, and people are focusing more on the dangers for next year , mostly the wage talks and the -LCB- parliamentary -RCB- elections , '' the U.S. trader said . 
The market also shrugged off positive factors , such as higher bond prices and a slowdown in monetary growth in September , traders said . 
, as trading volume is falling toward the end of the year and the market is becoming more volatile . 
and the market is becoming more volatile . 
, and Volkswagen slumped 9 to 435.5 . 
, as rumors of an impending takeover attempt for the tiremaker faded , brokers said . 
, and Commerzbank slipping 2.5 to 
Meanwhile , Wall Street 's volatility unnerved investors in other markets . 
, but Republicans were equally firm in support of the president , who has threatened to make abortion a decisive issue on at least three separate fiscal 1990 spending bills . 
But the stark numbers yesterday -- when 282 votes were needed -- indicate the president is in a commanding position for at least this year . 
, '' said a Democratic leadership aide . 
as Congress sent to the president last night a stopgap spending bill to keep the government operating through Nov. 15 and provide $ 2.85 billion in emergency funds to assist in the recovery from Hurricane Hugo and the California earthquake . 
after attaching further provisions sought by the influential California delegation and , despite reservations , the House adopted the bill on a 303-107 roll call . 
and , despite reservations , the House adopted the bill on a 303-107 roll call . 
But given the political importance of California , the administration was content to use its influence to prevent any Senate amendments adding further new appropriations . 
after Hugo struck the Carolinas and Caribbean last month , and these totals do n't reflect the additional benefit of low-interest disaster loans . 
, and these totals do n't reflect the additional benefit of low-interest disaster loans . 
, and $ 1.35 billion is divided between general emergency aid and a reserve to be available to the president to meet unanticipated costs from the two disasters . 
, and the bill circumvents existing restrictions that otherwise would prevent the use of federal aid to repair a toll road , such as the San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge damaged in last week 's earthquake . 
and , since the current fiscal year began Oct. 1 , only the Energy and Interior departments are operating on permanent appropriations enacted into law . 
. 
and , apart from the health and education measure vetoed by Mr. Bush , bills funding the District of Columbia and the entire U.S. foreign-aid budget are in jeopardy because of related abortion or family-planning issues . 
, and though the Democratic leadership is ambivalent about how to address the abortion issue , the debate is increasingly measured in party terms . 
. 
By comparison , Republicans have held closer to the anti-abortion movement . 
, and though Mr. Conte and Minority Leader Robert Michel of Illinois stood with the president yesterday , they are plainly uncomfortable with his position . 
. 
But after years of using the issue for its benefit , the GOP finds its candidates on the defensive . 
`` But if you support him over rape victims , this may be your last term . '' 
. '' 
Separately , the House last night approved a nearly $ 67 billion compromise spending bill providing the first construction funds for the administration 's ambitious space station in fiscal 1990 and incorporating far-reaching provisions affecting the federal mortgage market . 
, and the bill gives the Department of Housing and Urban Development new authority to facilitate the refinancing of subsidized loans for low-income homeowners . 
And on a closer 250-170 roll call , lawmakers upheld controversial agreements made by a House-Senate conference earmarking community development funds for more than 40 projects backed by often influential members . 
Also participating in the issue was Servifilm Spain Cinematografica S.A . 
, just as controversy over this trading strategy heats up . 
`` Customized '' baskets of fewer stocks will also be available . 
Also approved was a plan to trade stock portfolios by computer after regular hours on the Midwest Stock Exchange . 
, thus increasing volatility . 
But Richard Ketchum , the SEC 's market regulation chief , said he did n't believe `` this will spawn dramatic new program-trading strategies that will be destabilizing . '' 
as critics step up their attacks on program trading and its contributions to the stock market 's wild price swings . 
ESPs are also an attempt by the Big Board to head off the exodus of program trading business to overseas markets such as London . 
Big Board officials also hope Japanese investors will become interested in the exchange 's product . 
And it 's going to be done more frequently as the result of having more access to it at different places . '' 
, although the Big Board hopes that will change . 
Similarly , the Big Board hopes to entice Merrill Lynch & Co . 
because they fear the baskets may attract only limited trading . 
. 
. 
, '' one trader said . 
, although it is n't assured the acquisition will be completed . 
. '' 
, and that a favorable determination could result in a reorganization at Comprehensive Care `` by the end of October . '' 
Failure to win such a determination , however , would lead Comprehensive Care directors to `` consider various alternatives , '' Comprehensive Care said , without elaborating . 
Separately , First Hospital reported a 1.6 % rise in net income to $ 6.1 million for its year ended June 30 on a 27 % increase in revenue to $ 110.6 million . 
It said , however , that net income for the two-month period ended Aug. 31 plunged to $ 150,000 from $ 851,000 in the prior year on a 33 % rise in revenue to $ 21.4 million . 
It has not , however , made a formal proposal . 
The group also is engaged in talks with third parties regarding obtaining financing to buy more shares , but no agreements have yet been reached , the filing said . 
, but no agreements have yet been reached , the filing said . 
, people familiar with the case said . 
Meanwhile , within the next few weeks , the limited partners in Ivan F. Boesky & Co . L.P. are expected to reach a partial settlement with Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. regarding the distribution of the $ 330 million in partnership assets , said one of the individuals . 
However , less optimistic attorneys warned that because of the tangle of numerous defendants and plaintiffs with overlapping claims , there is always the possibility that the talks will again fall apart . 
because they sold while he was buying and others because they bought while he was selling . 
while he was buying and others because they bought while he was selling . 
and others because they bought while he was selling . 
because they bought while he was selling . 
while he was selling . 
, while Drexel and other defendants would remain . 
since Mr. Boesky , now in prison , agreed to pay a $ 100 million fine to settle the government 's charges that he had traded illegally using insider information . 
Separately , attorneys for the 42 or so limited partners have had serious discussions that could lead to the distribution of the partnership 's assets . 
because a Delaware court earlier this year said that Drexel is entitled to get its money back before or at the same time as the limited partners . 
after exhausting his appeals of a 1968 conviction on conspiracy to murder . 
. 
when Mr. Ferguson appealed his conviction in the 1960s . 
But in federal court in Manhattan , Judge Patterson said the FBI records could show that Mr. Ferguson 's arrest was the result of questionable legal practices . 
. '' 
and plaintiff will have served approximately two-thirds of his 3 1\/2-year minimum sentence by the time he receives the files . '' 
, and fast-track cases could be resolved quickly . 
The study also said each federal court should set strict time limits for the pretrial exchange of documents and evidence , ranging from as much as 100 days for cases in the fast track to as much as 18 months for complex disputes . 
And the study said federal courts should set firm trial dates early in the process . 
, adding significance to the effort . 
And now that the price has fallen below $ 19.65 , which many had said showed considerable resistance , some traders and analysts figure there 's little to stop the price from going lower on technical decisions . 
. 
`` And short-term , the technicians may have their way . '' 
as long as demand continues strong , analysts said . 
But the first quarter of the year is generally the weakest and OPEC production does n't seem to be slackening in anticipation of that . 
and OPEC production does n't seem to be slackening in anticipation of that . 
Also , maintaining current demand assumes no significant slowdown in world economies . 
A leveling off of farmer selling tied to the harvest also removed some of the downward pressure on futures contract prices . 
Wheat futures prices fell , however , at least partly in reaction to the rumored selling of futures contracts equal to several million bushels of wheat by commodity speculator Richard Dennis . 
Announced and anticipated purchases from foreign countries are also supporting futures prices . 
and there is n't enough grain in the pipeline , '' said Katharina Zimmer , a futures analyst with Merrill Lynch & Co. in New York . 
, but trading volume was n't very heavy . 
, but it rose as high as 74.20 cents . 
. 
Floor traders also said that the market could have been helped by rumors , which have been circulating for the past two days , about China purchasing cotton . 
. 
. 
, and thus would be a bullish sign . 
when the price climbs more than 74 cents . 
if the December contract was able to exceed 75.75 cents . 
He also noted that stocks on Aug. 1 , 1990 , are currently projected at 3.3 million bales , the smallest end-of-season supply since 1985 . 
. 
There was also some fear that without Ivory Coast cocoa a large French cocoa merchant , Cie . Financiere Sucre et Denrees , might not be able to deliver cocoa against the contracts it had sold earlier for December delivery in London . 
However , the French merchant has about 200,000 tons of old crop Ivory Coast cocoa stored in the Netherlands from an agreement it had negotiated with the Ivory Coast last spring . 
. 
. 
and a company spokesman would n't comment on the dismissal . 
Mr. Robertson was also removed from the board of First National Bank of New Jersey-Salem County , another unit , and the Toms River bank . 
after it could n't finance its initial offer . 
IMA also will assume $ 1.4 billion in debt . 
Earlier , American Medical said it had been approached again by two other possible suitors , whom it would n't identify but who had previously submitted bids for the company . 
but who had previously submitted bids for the company . 
Separately , Moody 's Investors Service Inc. downgraded the ratings of American Medical 's senior and subordinated debt issues and those of its international affiliate . 
, but that it expects the losses to be reduced through productivity gains and above average growth of the company 's hospitals . 
if it ca n't renegotiate its borrowings . 
Torchmark also said that Samuel E. Upchurch Jr. , 37 , vice president and general counsel , was selected to serve the remainder of the term vacated by John S.P. Samford , who resigned as director . 
The French unit of Ferruzzi Agricola Finanziaria also disclosed a 40 % rise in its consolidated net profit for the first half of 1989 , excluding nonrecurring items and after payments to minority interests . 
And in a separate transaction , Beghin-Say will sell its remaining 25 % interest in A.T.B. , a holding company for international trading assets , to an unspecified unit of Ferruzzi for 258 million francs . 
Separately , Esselte Business Systems reported third-quarter net income fell 5.9 % to $ 9.5 million , or 46 cents a share , from $ 10.1 million , or 49 cents a share , in the year-ago period . 
. 
An announcement is more likely next week , though . 
, but the House , reflecting a dramatic erosion of support for the program , earmarked only $ 3.1 billion . 
But as part of the overall agreement , Grumman and its outspoken supporters on Capitol Hill effectively will be precluded from reopening the emotional issue in the debate over next year 's budget . 
But the plane boasts a strong core of support in the House , where members are intent on saving Grumman jobs and are worried about potential shortages of carrier-based aircraft by the late 1990s . 
Conferees also agreed to Pentagon requests to earmark a total of nearly $ 1 billion for work on both mobile MX and Midgetman nuclear missiles , according to congressional aides . 
And lawmakers are putting the finishing touches on a compromise that would give the Air Force nearly all of the $ 2.4 billion it wants for production of Northrop Corp. 's radar-eluding B-2 bombers , which cost $ 530 million apiece . 
, but congressional aides said the accord wo n't include a House-passed provision that would have withheld production funds until Congress approves a cheaper , scaled-down version of the $ 70 billion fleet of 132 B-2s envisioned by the Pentagon . 
until Congress approves a cheaper , scaled-down version of the $ 70 billion fleet of 132 B-2s envisioned by the Pentagon . 
Profit also suffered because of `` intense '' discounting in its long-haul trucking business , the company said . 
, and the company 's stock was down only 25 cents to $ 30.25 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday . 
and then recovered nearly all of its losses by the close , fell 5.94 to 2653.28 in the latest session . 
as scattered bargain-hunting pushed prices higher . 
and the New York Stock Exchange Composite Index slid 0.53 to 189.52 . 
But advancing issues topped decliners by 784 to 700 on the Big Board despite the late sell programs , resulting from stock-index arbitrage . 
Traders said program activity was n't in evidence through most of the session , however , and Big Board volume dropped to 155,650,000 shares from about 238 million Tuesday as concerns about the potential for additional sharp swings in the market kept other trading in check . 
, and Big Board volume dropped to 155,650,000 shares from about 238 million Tuesday as concerns about the potential for additional sharp swings in the market kept other trading in check . 
as concerns about the potential for additional sharp swings in the market kept other trading in check . 
before today 's opening , is expected to show that the economy continued to expand in the third quarter at a moderate pace . 
The company also posted third-quarter earnings that were in line with analysts ' forecasts . 
Blue-chip consumer stocks also provided a lift to the industrial average . 
and Eastman Kodak added 3\/8 to 44 1\/2 . 
But General Motors dropped 1 7\/8 to 44 7\/8 . 
, and the company said it had lowered its projections for earnings growth through the end of 1990 because of planned price cuts . 
as 3.6 million shares were traded in the wake of its report that fiscal second-quarter net income fell 66 % from a year ago . 
Aetna Life & Casualty gained 1 3\/8 to 61 1\/8 , Cigna advanced 7\/8 to 64 3\/4 , Travelers added 1\/2 to 40 3\/8 and American International Group rose 3 1\/8 to 107 3\/4 . 
after nobody surfaced to claim credit for aggressive buying Tuesday by Bear Stearns that sent UAL stock up 35 points in a matter of hours . 
, and Delta Air Lines rose 1\/2 to 66 1\/2 after posting higher earnings for the September quarter . 
after posting higher earnings for the September quarter . 
and Rockwell International dropped 2 1\/8 to 25 . 
However , Atlantic Richfield preserved its twopoint advance in the previous session and added 1\/8 to 103 7\/8 . 
after the company said it is starting negotiations with unidentified parties interested in acquiring its units . 
Also , the company posted improved third-quarter earnings . 
, and its superefficient producers of everything from cars to computer chips are rushing to expand capacity , modernize factories and develop new products . 
, and the less their domestic customers will need to import . 
At Canon Inc. , for example , sales are up nearly 20 % this year ; so , the maker of cameras and computer printers is doing what any Japanese company would do under the circumstances : It is increasing capital spending -- by 60 % . It is building , among other things , a new laser-beam-printer factory in western Japan that can produce up to 150,000 printers next year . 
; so , the maker of cameras and computer printers is doing what any Japanese company would do under the circumstances : It is increasing capital spending -- by 60 % . 
even though Japan 's total output of goods and services is less than two-thirds America 's . 
, and Japanese interest rates , though up a bit recently , are still low . 
And in a business system where shareholders have few rights and expect only modest dividends , companies can plow their profits back into plant and equipment . 
But some economists and government officials here are n't applauding . 
U.S. even though export restraints currently limit Japanese car exports to the U.S. . 
Not everyone is worried , however . 
Moreover , much investment is n't aimed at increasing capacity . 
, and the rest is for maintenance and other purposes . 
But the worriers remain unconvinced . 
And eventually , they contend , domestic demand will weaken , forcing companies to emphasize exports again . 
. '' 
Japanese auto makers , for example , are increasing their production capacity in the U.S. ; the additional production should , in part , replace imported vehicles with locally manufactured ones . 
But although Japanese companies increased their U.S. auto output by 42 % from January to September compared with the year-earlier period , their exports to the U.S. will drop only 9 % this year , Nikko Research Center estimates . 
, Nikko Research Center estimates . 
So many companies are investing in high-tech machinery that Fanuc Ltd. , a robot maker , also had to build a new plant . 
But whatever its effects on exports and imports , Japan 's investment boom during the past two years has been stimulated at least partly by soaring domestic demand . 
, and some economists are betting that the boom will outlast the record 57-month expansion in the late 1960s . 
largely because its expensive Cima , Sylvia and Cefiro models are in heavy demand . 
, '' says Takuro Endo , Nissan executive vice president . 
Similarly , Honda Motor Co. 's sales are so brisk that workers grumble they have n't had a Saturday off in years , despite the government 's encouragement of more leisure activity . 
. 
. 
but also at expanding the company 's market share to 30 % from 27 % currently . 
Besides , Daikin 's major competitors , Hitachi Ltd. and Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. , `` are all adding production lines , '' a Daikin spokesman says . 
But we ca n't produce enough anymore . '' 
Meanwhile , Toyota Motor Corp. 's $ 247 million buildup is increasing its annual capacity by 180,000 cars , and Honda is spending $ 317 million on expansion . 
, and Honda is spending $ 317 million on expansion . 
, but it boldly aims to double its annual domestic sales to 800,000 cars in the next four years . 
. 
But new-product development will make Japanese companies stronger , and big investments in `` domestic '' industries such as beer will make it even tougher for foreign competitors to crack the Japanese market . 
, and big investments in `` domestic '' industries such as beer will make it even tougher for foreign competitors to crack the Japanese market . 
Moreover , much of the investment boom is in high-tech fields in which Japanese companies have only limited foreign competition ; so , more investment practically assures more exports . 
; so , more investment practically assures more exports . 
Toshiba Corp. , for example , is spending $ 986 million on two new plants to build four-megabit dynamic random access memories , the next generation of computer chips . 
, but Toshiba , which has already beaten everyone else in producing the current-generation one-megabit DRAMs , believes that its early investment will heighten its chances of beating its competitors again . 
Meanwhile , Toshiba 's Japanese rivals , Hitachi , Fujitsu Ltd. and NEC Corp. , are n't sitting still . 
when a new plant starts up next year . 
. 
, and many of them , analysts think , will be foreign companies . 
until regulators approve the regulations mandated by the new federal act , the company said . 
The Oneida , N.Y. , maker of consumer , food-service and industrial products also declared a quarterly cash dividend of 12 cents a share , with the same payable and record dates . 
The cash dividend paid on the common stock also will apply to the new shares , the company said . 
since FDA approved the drug 's usage for adults in March 1987 . 
But despite more than two years of research showing AZT can relieve dementia and other symptoms in children , the drug still lacks federal approval for use in the youngest patients . 
As a result , many youngsters have been unable to obtain the drug and , for the few exceptions , insurance carriers wo n't cover its cost of $ 6,400 a year . 
and , for the few exceptions , insurance carriers wo n't cover its cost of $ 6,400 a year . 
after her parents unsuccessfully pleaded for the drug . 
`` But my daughter could n't , until she was too ill to take it . 
, until she was too ill to take it . 
because children account for just 1 % of the patient population and hence a small part of the large and lucrative market . 
Still , all this comes nearly a year and a half after Philip Pizzo of the National Cancer Institute offered evidence that AZT could reverse the ravages of AIDS dementia , sometimes prompting dramatic recovery of IQ levels and reappearance of lost motor skills . 
nearly a year and a half after Philip Pizzo of the National Cancer Institute offered evidence that AZT could reverse the ravages of AIDS dementia , sometimes prompting dramatic recovery of IQ levels and reappearance of lost motor skills . 
, '' said Rep. Ted Weiss . 
if only temporarily . 
Avon also said it will issue an additional 243,677 of the Class C warrants to holders of its Class A , Class B and unclassified warrants . 
Also , Armco and National Intergroup had lower operating profit in steel , marking what may be the end of a two-year industry boom . 
as the Beverly Hills thrift reeled from new industry rules and turmoil in junk bonds . 
as the beer industry 's growth slows . 
, but doing so will inflict short-term pain . 
, but EDS 's profit rose 16 % . 
Also , Chairman Pierre Lortie resigned . 
and Pennsylvania 's House cleared a measure banning abortions after the 24th week of pregnancy . 
after the Senate approved the House-passed measure . 
and landslides threatened more houses . 
The Communist Party chief , facing what is viewed as the nation 's worst unrest in nearly 40 years , also said he would allow East Germans to travel abroad more freely , but made clear that the Berlin Wall would remain . 
But the secretary of state advised Israel that attempting to overhaul the five-point plan risked delaying the negotiations aimed at Mideast peace . 
Meanwhile , Secretary of State Baker said the U.S. protested to Moscow over shipments of East bloc arms to Salvadoran rebels from Managua . 
, and at least 20 people , most of them children , were missing and feared dead . 
But the brewer said Jeffrey Coors voluntarily gave up the position to focus more of his energy on Coors Technology Co. , a small unit of Coors he has run for several years . 
, but she declined to comment on whether any actual bids had been made . 
But they said detailed financial figures have n't been passed yet to any prospective buyers . 
But it 's in very early stages still . '' 
O&Y , owned by Toronto 's Reichmann family , is also supervising major restructuring and refinancing of Campeau , a Toronto-based real estate and retailing company . 
, so I doubt very much whether any bid has been made . '' 
Separately , a Campeau shareholder filed suit , charging Campeau , Chairman Robert Campeau and other officers with violating securities law . 
Corp. because it has `` not yet announced committed financing sufficient to complete '' the bid , LIN said in New York . 
The offer is in limbo , however , because LIN has agreed to merge its cellular-phone businesses with BellSouth Corp . 
, because LIN has agreed to merge its cellular-phone businesses with BellSouth Corp . 
'' because it did n't describe the source of funds or the specific terms of StatesWest securities which were part of the offer . 
It also said the cash portion of the transaction would be financed with StatesWest 's own cash and short-term investments , plus debt and other financing arranged through Hibbard Brown & Co. , the company 's investment banker . 
because its inventory position this year did n't need the costly markdowns required to trim last year 's swollen levels . 
, then began showing improvement in the second half of last year . 
In addition , the company said ongoing cost-cutting efforts contributed to the latest period 's earnings upturn . 
But Coniston , a New York partnership managed by the firm of Gollust , Tierney & Oliver , yesterday announced that `` in view of unsettled conditions in securities markets '' the offering would be postponed and restructured . 
And investors , at least for now , took a pass . 
But unless they continued to grow , TW , based in Paramus , N.J. , would have run into trouble . 
. 
`` But people do n't buy anything on expectation anymore , '' says Jack Utter , who manages the high-yield fund of IDS Financial Services . 
By then , DLJ hopes to be able to sell less-junky junk bonds . 
And the total amount of junk financing will be reduced . 
But trading risk stems from credit risk . 
And by adding equity , DLJ would seem to be acknowledging that credit risk was a concern . 
Indeed , the DLJ banker says , in the reborn capital structure cash coverage of interest `` will meaningfully improve . '' 
. 
But such calculations ignore the noncash charge of depreciation , taken to allow for the gradual wearing out of french friers , deterioration of stores and the like . 
In fact , DLJ says , the company envisions capital expenses of about $ 180 million a year . 
and that people wo n't stop eating during a downturn . 
But they wo n't necessarily eat at Denny 's . 
because it has been willing to spend aggressively on remodeling restaurants and redoing menus . 
and also to pay down debt , '' says a big investor in high-yield debt . 
, since half of what it plans to spend is for `` growth , '' rather than maintenance . 
, since half of what it plans to spend is for `` growth , '' rather than maintenance . 
But investors noted that under the shelved offering , TW would have needed to grow to meet its debt payments . 
years before Mr. Bush encountered it , has made clear her opposition to refashioning Britain 's free-market policies to suit the bureaucrats in Brussels . 
when abroad . '' 
. 
Still , Mrs. Thatcher had once again gone against the grain . 
. '' 
and you put out your right foot , you are out of step . '' 
. '' 
. 
If indeed Mrs. Thatcher has one opponent that could throw her off political course it is Britain 's mysteriously intractable inflation problem . 
We can not , however , join the political chorus that as one proclaims how offputting it is that Mrs. Thatcher refuses to get along by going along . 
, and as he departed he noticed a sign saying , `` Have You Left Anything ? '' 
? '' 
. 
But while the Composite gained 1.19 , to 462.89 , many issues did n't participate in the advance . 
. 
and 866 declined . 
Meanwhile , the Nasdaq 100 Index of the big non-financial stocks basically stood still , easing 0.12 , to 452.23 . 
, but it was n't a tremendous comeback , '' Mr. Zipper observed . 
. '' 
. 
, and it will cause a lot of swings , '' he said . 
, but the issue was unchanged at 17 3\/4 . 
and Biogen rose 5\/8 to 14 5\/8 . 
if British government restrictions to such a transaction are removed . 
Its suitor , McCaw Cellular , also added 1\/2 to 40 1\/2 on 395,700 shares . 
The company 's third-quarter earnings also rose to 10 cents a share from eight cents a share a year ago . 
Otherwise , actual profit is compared with the 300-day estimate . 
when negotiations with the International Olympic Committee started in Toronto Aug. 23 . 
Then , he asked Mr. Pilson to raise his offer anyway : `` If we can have a number that starts with a three , you can have a dea . '' 
. '' 
But Mr. Pilson has been put in the uncomfortable role of setting off a bidding frenzy for sports rights , a frenzy that the networks had hoped to avoid . 
if its big gamble goes wrong . 
ABC , a unit of Capital Cities\/ABC Inc. , and General Electric Co. 's National Broadcasting Co. also risk losses if they outbid CBS for other contracts . 
if they outbid CBS for other contracts . 
. 
. '' 
when the game is over . 
. 
if the numbers do n't work . 
And three years later , in a sea of red ink , the heroes can find themselves with a lot of explaining to do . '' 
Inc. after Laurence A. Tisch bought a 24.9 % stake in the company and took over three years ago . 
, and they needed one . 
And they 've bought one . '' 
And the winners will be the colleges , not either network . 
. 
, but he was the guy who complained most bitterly and loudly , '' says Robert Wussler , a former CBS Sports president . 
`` And yet his company is one reason why rights are so high today . '' 
`` And yet his company is one reason why rights are so high today . '' 
, then he 's going crazy . '' 
But the 49-year-old Mr. Pilson is hardly a man to ignore the numbers . 
and then put in years at Metromedia Inc. and the William Morris talent agency . 
. '' 
, and I did n't say every property . '' 
And he is n't the only big spender : NBC will pay a record $ 401 million for the 1992 Summer Games , and ESPN , 80%-owned by Capital Cities\/ABC , will shell out $ 400 million for four years of baseball , airing 175 regular-season games a year . 
, and ESPN , 80%-owned by Capital Cities\/ABC , will shell out $ 400 million for four years of baseball , airing 175 regular-season games a year . 
after Mr. Tisch took over . 
, and Mr. Pilson used this extended private audience to outline his ambitions . 
, and soon he was wielding sole approval each time Mr. Pilson scribbled a frighteningly large figure on a slip of paper , sealed it in an envelope and gave it to sports negotiators . 
Then , in May 1988 , Mr. Tisch urgently needed to make a bold statement to quell rumors that he might sell the network . 
It 's also a fast fix for an ailing image . 
, '' he says . 
-- and he does n't think it will -- `` I 'd rather see the games on our air than on NBC and ABC , '' he says . 
, and premiering new shows is `` a crap shoot , '' Mr. Pilson says . 
But top sports events are still a strong bet to lure audiences 30 % or 40 % larger than those CBS usually gets . 
And the Winter Olympics will air during the February `` sweeps , '' when ratings are used to set ad rates for local stations . 
The CBS plan to use big-time sports as a platform for other series carries no guarantee of success , however . 
if the shows are weak . 
. '' 
During the 1984 Summer Games , for example , ABC touted `` Call to Glory , '' but the military drama was missing in action within weeks . 
, '' but the military drama was missing in action within weeks . 
Moreover , sports is hardly the best way to lure adult women . 
. 
Nor is CBS a shoo-in to get blockbuster ratings . 
But CBS will put the athletes up against Bill Cosby , `` Cheers '' and other shows in NBC 's No. 1 schedule . 
if CBS ca n't avoid big losses on the sports coverage itself . 
And avoiding such losses will take a monumental effort . 
Nevertheless , he deems the deal `` plain smart '' for its huge promotional value . 
But Mr. Tisch expects losses in all four years of the contract , he told U.S. senators last June . 
-- and those two networks expect losses on baseball this season . 
Yet CBS will air only 12 regular-season games , 26 fewer than ABC and NBC . 
It also indicates a $ 50 million drop in ad sales for regular-season games -- a risk CBS took to get an unprecedented lock on all playoff games . 
. 
But ad executives who negotiated the deal say that works out to only $ 275,000 for a 30-second ad in the World Series through 1993 -- 17 % less than what ABC is charging for the Series this month . 
Moreover , `` there 's no question ad rates will come down considerably '' from the GM-Toyota price , says Arnold Chase of Bozell Inc . 
Other admen , however , say rates could rise later if ad spending surges . 
Other admen , however , say rates could rise later if ad spending surges . 
if ad spending surges . 
The Winter Games outlook also is mixed . 
, but rivals contend that it will take a beating . 
, and ratings could be hurt by a lack of live events . 
, so the results can be announced on the 6 o'clock news . 
. 
, when you got $ 3 billion sitting in the bank , '' says Mr. Frank , senior vice president at International Management Group , citing CBS 's enormous cash reserves from selling off various businesses . 
Moreover , sports has `` claimed its place '' as a guaranteed ratings-getter , says David J. Stern , the commissioner of the National Basketball Association . 
And CBS takes in the least money in prime time ; ABC and NBC charge 30 % to 35 % more for ads , according to a Variety survey . 
But CBS 's costs are huge , and the risks go up with each new sports package that CBS locks up . 
, and the risks go up with each new sports package that CBS locks up . 
. 
because sports will fill up a few weeks of prime time . 
But the savings will be minuscule . 
, and it is aired twice . 
But media-stock analyst Richard J. MacDonald of MacDonald Grippo Riely says Wall Street wo n't take kindly to that . 
. 
Then , he answers his own question . 
and chances are the clerk who answers wo n't be the only one on the line . 
Or open up an electronics magazine and peruse the ads for sneaky tape recorders and other snooping gadgets . 
and peruse the ads for sneaky tape recorders and other snooping gadgets . 
And while sellers of the equipment and companies `` monitoring '' employees have few qualms , right-to-privacy advocates and some lawmakers are alarmed . 
. 
It 's also widespread for reservations clerks in the airline , car-rental , hotel and railroad industries . 
and that customer conversations are n't taped . 
But devices are there for the asking , whether in stores or through the mail . 
The Counter Spy Shop in Washington , D.C. , for instance , offers the `` Secret Connection '' attache case , which can surreptitiously record conversations for nine hours at a stretch . 
, but simple voice-activated tape recorders sell for as little as $ 70 at electronics stores like Radio Shack . 
. 
And four states -- California , Florida , Michigan and Pennsylvania -- have adopted rules that all parties involved must consent when phone calls are recorded . 
when phone calls are recorded . 
Also last spring , Rep. Ron Dellums -LRB- D. , Calif. -RRB- , introduced a bill requiring universal two-party consent to any tapings in cases that do n't involve law enforcement . 
In addition , products such as voice-activated tape recorders would have to include beep tones and labels explaining federal laws on eavesdropping . 
, but employers and device manufacturers object . 
`` But the only way you can find out how your people are doing is by listening . '' 
Spiegel also opposes the beeper bill , saying the noise it requires would interfere with customer orders , causing irritation and even errors . 
And in the past , Congress has viewed monitoring as an issue best handled in union negotiations . 
But opponents , led by the CWA , say new laws are needed because monitoring is heavily concentrated in service industries and 81 % of monitored workers are n't represented by unions . 
because monitoring is heavily concentrated in service industries and 81 % of monitored workers are n't represented by unions . 
and 81 % of monitored workers are n't represented by unions . 
Meanwhile , supporters of the Dellums two-party consent bill say it is needed because of a giant loophole in the one-party consent law . 
. 
But vendors contend that they ca n't control how their products are used . 
if a salesperson suspects they will be used illegally . 
, but that requiring a beeping tone on recorders `` would be ludicrous . '' 
Still , Radio Shack is aware that some of its products are controversial . 
`` But we were getting too many complaints that people were using them to eavesdrop on their neighbors . '' 
as Digital Equipment Corp. announced its first line of mainframe computers , targeting International Business Machines Corp. 's largest market . 
But Digital 's move into mainframes will target IBM 's home turf , where it has a commanding 70 % share of the market . 
IBM , which gets about half its revenue and more than half its profit from mainframes , also announced upgraded operating system software that , together with the new hardware , lets customers do so-called batch processing as much as 60 % faster . 
, though three wo n't ship until the third quarter of next year . 
Upgrades to bigger models also will be costlier . 
because he had expected at least some mainframe profit this year . 
But he added that he expected to raise his estimate for fiscal 1991 at the same time . 
when they need the power of a mainframe , instead of turning to IBM . 
Digital also plans to compete fiercely with IBM when the giant 's customers are computerizing new aspects of their businesses . 
when the giant 's customers are computerizing new aspects of their businesses . 
Digital , however , does n't expect to displace IBM mainframes that are already installed at big companies . 
, when it 's packaged with an optional supercharger , known as a vector processor . 
. 
The slow-growing mainframe market also has shown new signs of life lately . 
But the 3090 line is nearly five years old -- which is getting up there in mainframe years -- and its growth is expected to slow in 1990 . 
-- which is getting up there in mainframe years -- and its growth is expected to slow in 1990 . 
as soon as it could to spark as many sales as possible by the end of the year . 
as customers seek to use budgets before year end . 
Still , Steve Cohen , an analyst at SoundView Financial Group Inc. , said , `` I do n't see that this will be sufficient to give IBM a significant kick in the fourth quarter . '' 
and partly because the strong dollar will cut significantly the value of IBM 's overseas earnings when translated into dollars . 
when translated into dollars . 
, but lawmakers seem likely to balk at the idea . 
so that Congress could pass quickly a `` clean '' bill containing only provisions specifically designed to meet federal budget targets under the Gramm-Rudman act . 
But now that Congress has missed the legal deadline for meeting the Gramm-Rudman targets , the White House said it has returned to its original view that a capital-gains cut should be part of the deficit-reduction bill , on which Congress continues to work . 
. 
, then we press forward on another vehicle and a separate vote , '' said press secretary Marlin Fitzwater . 
On Capitol Hill , though , there does n't seem to be sufficient sentiment to pair capital gains and the deficit-reduction bill . 
Meanwhile , President Bush stepped up his personal lobbying for the capital-gains tax cut . 
, AT&T said , and three others will be introduced in 1990 and 1991 . 
To be introduced later are a multiplexer , which will allow several signals to travel along a single optical line ; a light-wave system , which carries voice channels ; and a network controller , which directs data flow through cross-connect systems . 
AT&T said it expects to beat to the marketplace two rivals , Northern Telecom Ltd. of Canada and France 's Alcatel N.V. , which also have announced Sonet-based products . 
as that work declines . 
, which has been so lucrative in the past . 
, '' says one lawyer at a large New York firm . 
and there are fewer of them to do , `` you ca n't bill the same kind of premium as when deals took a few weeks from start to finish , '' says one lawyer at a large New York firm . 
, but next year we 'll be another story , '' said Robert Freedman , a partner at Simpson Thacher & Bartlett . 
and if money is available , '' said Jack Nusbaum , co-chairman of Willkie Farr . 
. 
and many fall apart for lack of financing '' and more stringent scrutiny by state courts . 
Lawyers also say an erratic stock market and uncertain financing conditions have sharply reduced the number of lucrative big deals likely to be proposed . 
Still , some lawyers say the mergers slowdown has n't affected foreign buyers as much as domestic ones . 
Davis Polk & Wardwell also said its international clients are keeping mergers and acquisitions partners busy . 
`` But the question is whether things people are looking at will actually surface in live transactions in light of the current market conditions . '' 
, and that Mr. Laff knew nothing about it . 
Stanley Aslanian , the Haas broker who agreed to carry a hidden microphone during the conversation , also has pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit securities violations in the stock manipulation and agreed to cooperate . 
after Mr. Aslanian told him that information given to Mr. Laff by another conspirator could jeopardize the stock scheme . 
Mr. Lorin then repeated the threat , and Mr. Aslanian urged him not to say such things . 
, and Mr. Aslanian urged him not to say such things . 
. 
. 
He previously was staff director and counsel for the Senate committee on banking , housing and urban affairs . 
In addition , Delmed , which makes and sells a dialysis solution used in treating kidney diseases , said negotiations about pricing had collapsed between it and a major distributor , National Medical Care Inc . 
Leslie I. Shapiro , chief operating officer and chief financial officer , also resigned , the company said . 
The transaction also would combine Fresenius USA and Delmed . 
, Delmed said . 
after their exclusive agreement ends in March 1990 , Delmed said . 
In addition , Delmed is exploring distribution arrangements with Fresenius USA , Delmed said . 
But TPA sales fell below levels for this year 's first and second quarter sales of $ 48 million , cooling investors . 
But some analysts remain sour on the company . 
and that 's a good sign . 
But I still think the fundamentals are poor , '' said Denise Gilbert , an analyst with Montgomery Securities in San Francisco . 
And Genentech is n't likely to have any new products ready for market until at least 1992 , Ms. Gilbert added . 
, and that 's too much , '' she said . 
. 
But we 're still at the beginning stages of some of these changes . '' 
The plan , outlined in a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission , also calls for creditors and shareholders to receive common stock and warrants in the new company . 
Maxicare also will guarantee that the banks will realize at least $ 7 million on certain notes pledged to them . 
, but the company expects production to be hampered in the next few months by traffic disruptions around the plant and outages for repair to gas and electric power systems . 
However , Citicorp said that the average rate fell to 7.962 % at its $ 50 million auction of 182-day commercial paper from 7.986 % at last week 's sale . 
`` But that partner is n't Fiat . '' 
as both Ford Motor Corp. and Fiat have turned down the offer . 
ITT also forecast a fourth-quarter blow to earnings from the California earthquake . 
Except for insurance , however , ITT said it expects improved operating earnings `` in all of our businesses for the full year . '' 
The company also disclosed its financial operations had increased reserves for bankrupt accounts , resulting in a $ 40 million pretax charge for the third quarter . 
This charge was partly offset , however , by $ 19 million in pretax capital gains . 
ITT also said its consumer finance unit agreed in September to settle a civil suit with the California attorney general over alleged improper lending and sales practices . 
, and other partners include Hydro Congo , the Congolese state oil company , with a 50 % interest , and Kuwait Foreign Petroleum Exploration Co. with a 6.25 % stake . 
and private entities owned the rest . 
The agency noted , however , the estimate will likely be confirmed . 
, but a 0.2 % rise by the consumer price index would put growth at either 178.8 or 178.9 , up 3.3 % or 3.4 % from the year-earlier level of 173.1 . 
some time after the venture completes a business plan , probably later this week . 
, but analysts said the Quickview suit does n't appear to bode major difficulties for Apple . 
Nonetheless , the suit seeks unspecified damages that an attorney for Quickview claimed could run into the millions of dollars . 
, and that HyperCard does not infringe `` any valid claims '' of the Quickview patents . 
: It is n't the Americans who must be criticized for not understanding the Japanese culture , but the Japanese who insist on forcing their culture on Americans . 
, but the Japanese who insist on forcing their culture on Americans . 
, but they refuse to accept the American culture . 
as if they were Japanese ; instead , they must manage Americans as Americans . 
; instead , they must manage Americans as Americans . 
when in Japan . 
when they locate here ? 
But the Japanese insist upon Japanese managers everywhere they set up shop . 
. 
Thus the conclusion is that the burden rests with management to understand\/adopt the culture and philosophy of the country in which they are operating . 
, and the company reach its full potential , only when management embraces the employees ' perspective . 
, only when management embraces the employees ' perspective . 
Instead , he should listen to see how that criticism can be used constructively to advance his objective of carrying out a set of tasks through the efforts of his subordinates . 
. 
And the vacillation did n't end there . 
if it provided any abortion funds , except to save a woman 's life . 
, except to save a woman 's life . 
Then , two weeks ago -- declaring that `` I 'm not looking for any conflict over this '' -- the president said he would consider a compromise to fund abortions for poor women in cases of rape and incest . 
But only four days after that , Mr. Bush resurrected the veto threat . 
`` I do not support federal funding for abortions except where the mother 's life is threatened , '' he proclaimed , and finally vetoed the measure last weekend . 
, '' says John Fowler , head of the Washington-based Ad Hoc Committee in Defense of Life Inc . 
Yet abortion-rights forces remain bitterly critical . 
But ever since the Supreme Court 's Webster vs. Reproductive Health Services decision this year changed the political landscape of the abortion issue , the president seemingly has tried just as hard to avoid saying anything more unless pressed to the wall . 
. 
unless pressed to the wall . 
if the president drew a firm line and hewed to it , experts insist . 
, '' says Republican strategist John Sears . 
Yet he is also firmly bound by his hard-line rhetoric and promises he made to anti-abortion activists during his long pursuit of the White House . 
Yet he is also firmly bound by his hard-line rhetoric and promises he made to anti-abortion activists during his long pursuit of the White House . 
But Mr. Bush and his advisers miscalculated the politics of the abortion issue , failing to grasp how dramatically the abortion-rights movement would be aroused following last summer 's Supreme Court decision to restrict those rights in the Webster case . 
. 
Running for president in early 1980 , he was also quoted as supporting federal funding for abortions in cases of rape , incest and to save the life of the mother . 
As Mr. Reagan 's running mate , though , Mr. Bush plunged headlong into the anti-abortion position , endorsing a constitutional amendment outlawing abortion . 
, but that he opposed federal funding in all but the latter case . 
as he rolled into office , affirming his `` firm support of our cause '' during an anti-abortion rally three days after his inauguration last January . 
But when the high court ruled in the Webster case in July , the president began to lower the volume . 
. 
. 
He did later threaten vetoes over legislation restoring the District of Columbia 's right to use its own tax money to fund abortions for poor women and over restoring funding to the United Nations Population Fund . 
But in the months since then , while trying to drum up support for other issues -- such as an anti-flag-burning constitutional amendment -- he has shied away from talking about abortion . 
. 
The White House has likewise avoided any involvement in Florida 's recent special legislative session on abortion , which anti-abortion forces had regarded as a key test of their ability to get state lawmakers to toughen abortion restrictions . 
. 
And it is how African-Americans and other minority groups were guaranteed their equal rights as citizens in this nation . 
since Section 504 was passed as a part of the 1973 Rehabilitation Act . 
However , Harry Millis , an analyst at McDonald & Co. , Cleveland , said Goodyear 's results `` fell at the bottom '' of his range of estimates . 
, Mr. Millis said the company 's results `` were still a little disappointing . '' 
But Goodyear said total U.S. tire unit sales were off about 2 % . 
, and the company said it reduced manufacturing levels at some of its U.S. tire plants because of inventory adjustments and slackened production by auto makers . 
As a result , total tax outlays were $ 73.5 million , compared with $ 44.1 million the year earlier . 
. 
, and American companies had high hopes that steel import quotas would be extended for another five years . 
, and American companies had high hopes that steel import quotas would be extended for another five years . 
, and he again threatened a takeover . 
In addition , USX 's giant steel segment , representing 34 % of its 1988 sales , is facing softening demand and slipping prices as well as increasing competition from foreign steelmakers and low-cost minimills . 
, and USX is laboring under a staggering $ 5.8 billion debt at a time when it must spend money to upgrade steel mills and drill for oil . 
Or he might have to incur a huge expense of either buying Mr. Icahn 's stock , possibly at a premium , or paying stockholders a special dividend partly because of Mr. Icahn 's pressure . 
after the takeover specialist had built up an 11.4 % stake . 
And he managed to fend off further advances and even strike up an unlikely friendship with the interloper . 
But the fiercely competitive Mr. Corry quickly showed he 's no pushover . 
, to be swallowed if anyone amasses a 15 % stake . 
if anyone amasses a 15 % stake . 
unless he can get a special dividend similar to one he received before selling his stake in Texaco Inc. in June -- a coup that gave him enough cash to make his USX move . 
before selling his stake in Texaco Inc. in June -- a coup that gave him enough cash to make his USX move . 
And although the recent turmoil in the stock and junk-bond markets , by making it harder to arrange takeover financing , has eased some of the pressure on Mr. Corry , it does n't end the takeover threat . 
. 
while greeting steel suppliers in New York on Oct. 12 and inviting them to a buffet of salmon and sushi in honor of Kobe Steel Ltd. , USX 's partner in a steel mill in Lorain , Ohio . 
In fact , it 's barely begun for Mr. Corry , who faces tough decisions before he has had a chance to get settled into his new job . 
before he has had a chance to get settled into his new job . 
because he has n't established much credibility on his own , '' says Bryan Jacoboski , a securities analyst at PaineWebber Inc . 
until he concluded that he could n't stand cutting up frogs , Mr. Corry wanted to work for a big company `` that could do big things . '' 
But after joining the tax department of a USX subsidiary 30 years ago , he set the modest goal of becoming tax manager by the age of 46 . 
. 
because everyone else did . 
Yet , the unassuming Mr. Corry helped chart USX 's transition from Big Steel to Big Oil . 
Nevertheless , Mr. Corry , once named chief executive , did n't waste any time distancing himself from his former boss , who still has an office on the 62nd floor of the USX tower in Pittsburgh . 
. 
Mr. Corry also ruled that all board meetings would be held in Pittsburgh instead of New York or Findlay , Ohio , Marathon 's home . 
And , earlier this month , he announced the sale of the reserves of Texas Oil & Gas , which was acquired three years ago and has n't posted any significant operating profits since . 
as natural-gas prices were falling and just as Texas Oil & Gas reported its first annual loss in 28 years . 
as natural-gas prices were falling and just as Texas Oil & Gas reported its first annual loss in 28 years . 
But when the two men met in New York a day after Mr. Icahn disclosed the rise in his USX stake , Mr. Corry learned that Mr. Icahn wanted him to sell all of Texas Oil -- not just its reserves of about 1.2 trillion cubic feet of natural gas and 28 million barrels of oil but also its pipeline , gas-gathering and contract-drilling operations . 
. 
a day after Mr. Icahn disclosed the rise in his USX stake , Mr. Corry learned that Mr. Icahn wanted him to sell all of Texas Oil -- not just its reserves of about 1.2 trillion cubic feet of natural gas and 28 million barrels of oil but also its pipeline , gas-gathering and contract-drilling operations . 
if he could find a buyer at the right price . 
if broken up . 
, and Mr. Corry does n't necessarily disagree . 
But the short-term outlook is so-so . 
. 
and , while Chuck agreed , he was more apt to say , ` Not at any cost to shareholders , ' '' a former executive says . 
, ' '' a former executive says . 
Indeed , Mr. Corry , at an August press conference , talked about investing in steel as long as it provides a good return and `` not a day longer . '' 
as long as it provides a good return and `` not a day longer . '' 
However , shedding steel would run directly counter to Mr. Roderick 's original rationale for diversifying into oil and gas : Having two major products would lessen the company 's vulnerability to one market 's down cycle and help smooth out the flow of cash and earnings . 
and , boy , if you ca n't figure out the value of those two parts , you are so damn dumb that you do n't belong on Wall Street . '' 
. '' 
Moreover , the opportunity to sell steel at a price acceptable to USX may be gone , for now . 
With Mr. Icahn breathing down his neck , however , Mr. Corry may have little choice but to sell at a weak price , even if it means losing some steel-related tax-loss carryforwards . 
, even if it means losing some steel-related tax-loss carryforwards . 
Indeed , when the Bush administration finally decided this summer to renew import restrictions -- arguably the most important decision to affect the steel industry in five years -- Mr. Corry and his directors were aboard helicopters , high above Marathon 's rich oil reserves in the North Sea . 
. 
However , even USX executives who work closely with him are n't sure about his long-term goals . 
One thing is certain , however : Mr. Corry , while studying other options , probably wo n't make a major move until he 's clear about Mr. Icahn 's intentions . 
. 
until he 's clear about Mr. Icahn 's intentions . 
And then , `` he wo n't panic , '' says J. Bruce Johnston , a former USX executive and now a labor and benefit consultant with Adler Cohen & Grigsby in Pittsburgh . 
And then , `` he wo n't panic , '' says J. Bruce Johnston , a former USX executive and now a labor and benefit consultant with Adler Cohen & Grigsby in Pittsburgh . 
when , as vice president of corporate planning , he handled what Mr. Johnston calls `` don't-con-me '' negotiations that led to USX 's shedding of a wide array of assets ranging from chemicals to construction . 
. 
, but you did n't know that . 
and equity is bought , '' he said . 
, and thus to persuade the U.S. to break off talks with the group . 
U.S. officials , however , said they are n't buying the Israeli argument . 
, but our analysts take a different view than theirs . '' 
Mr. Carmon said he also presented the list last week to William Brown , U.S. Ambassador to Israel . 
Separately , the New York Times reported that the Israeli government had provided its correspondent in Jerusalem with different documents that Israel said prove the PLO has been conducting terrorism from the occupied Arab territories . 
? '' Mr. Carmon asked . 
, and we have evidence of continued terrorism , what would be the logical conclusion ? '' Mr. Carmon asked . 
, particularly because he and his lieutenants reserved the right to press `` armed struggle '' against the Jewish state . 
But U.S. officials say they are n't satisfied these incidents constitute terrorism because they may be offshoots of the intifadah , the Palestinian rebellion in the occupied territories , which the U.S. does n't classify as terrorism . 
because they may be offshoots of the intifadah , the Palestinian rebellion in the occupied territories , which the U.S. does n't classify as terrorism . 
In addition , the officials say Israel has n't presented convincing evidence these acts were ordered by Fatah or by any group Mr. Arafat controls . 
U.S. terrorism experts also say they are highly uncertain about the veracity of the separate documents leaked to the New York Times . 
But State Department officials accuse Israel of leaking questionable claims to embarrass the U.S. . 
, and traders appeared content to let the dollar languish in a narrow range until tomorrow , when the preliminary report on third-quarter U.S. gross national product is released . 
But seesaw gyrations in the Dow Jones Industrial Average yesterday put Wall Street back in the spotlight and inspired market participants to bid the U.S. unit lower . 
and foreign-exchange dealers quickly drove the dollar down . 
but ended the day below the levels of late Monday . 
Stock prices , meanwhile , posted significant gains in later trading and closed down by only 3.69 points on the day . 
They also point out that narrowing interest-rate differentials between the U.S. and its major trading partners tend to make the U.S. currency less attractive to foreign investors . 
But , they add that the mark 's strength is in part a reflection of a shift away from U.S. assets by Japanese investors into West German investments . 
Meanwhile , sterling slumped on news that the United Kingdom posted a wider-than-expected trade deficit in September . 
The news also knocked the British unit to below 2.95 marks in London , but a bout of short-covering helped sterling recoup some of its earlier losses . 
, but a bout of short-covering helped sterling recoup some of its earlier losses . 
-- mainly because a high-risk bet on interest rates backfired . 
In 1988 , for example , Boston Co. had an estimated pretax profit of at least $ 110 million , while Shearson managed net income of just $ 96 million . 
, while Shearson managed net income of just $ 96 million . 
But people familiar with Boston Co. 's performance say the unit had profit of around $ 17 million for the third quarter , after barely breaking even for the first six months . 
, after barely breaking even for the first six months . 
Shearson , meanwhile , posted net income of $ 106 million for the first nine months of the year , down slightly from $ 110 million for the year-ago period . 
, and when rates moved unfavorably -- beginning late last year and continuing into this year -- `` it cost them , '' Mr. Kriz said . 
, '' Mr. Kriz said . 
, and we think these will serve to improve credit quality . '' 
, he said . 
and the proceeds are reinvested , the problems ought to ease , he said . 
But he also cited concerns over the company 's mortgage exposure in the troubled New England real estate market . 
But he also cited concerns over the company 's mortgage exposure in the troubled New England real estate market . 
-- except to deny a published report that outside accountants had discovered evidence of significant accounting errors in the first three quarters ' results . 
Mr. von Germeten , in turn , attributed the controversy to judgmental errors by accountants and accused Shearson of conducting a `` witch hunt . '' 
as it enters the critical Christmas season . 
But the news was even worse for Sears 's core U.S. retailing operation , the largest in the nation . 
Instead , a spokesman blames the dismal third-quarter showing on `` an environment that is being distorted by a very harsh climate for sales of durable goods , '' which account for roughly two-thirds of Sears 's annual merchandise volume . 
. 
But analysts say Sears faces an especially daunting challenge on the eve of the Christmas shopping season . 
if it continues with its pricing policy when everyone else is offering unusual values . '' 
when everyone else is offering unusual values . '' 
, and it 's offering to defer finance charges on certain big-ticket items . 
Sears is also stepping up its television ads and changing its message . 
In a new TV ad , for instance , a woman going through the Sunday newspaper brands as hype claims by other stores that they are offering goods for `` 50 % , 60 % and 70 % off . '' By lowering prices throughout its stores , she says , `` Sears has the right idea . '' 
But the ad also mentions Sears 's sales -- a topic that the retailer has avoided since switching to everyday pricing . 
But the ad also mentions Sears 's sales -- a topic that the retailer has avoided since switching to everyday pricing . 
since switching to everyday pricing . 
. '' 
because it has n't yet done enough to improve service or its selection of merchandise . 
Moreover , the number of people who spontaneously cited lower prices as the reason for their interest in Sears declined to 16 % in September from 33 % in March . 
, but it 's a very small and slow process . '' 
as claims pour in from the San Francisco earthquake . 
But a spokesman said the quake wo n't have as big a financial impact on Allstate as Hurricane Hugo did . 
Net income at Sears 's Dean Witter Financials Services group , meanwhile , rose nearly 32 % to $ 35.7 million , reflecting improvements in its basic stock brokerage and Discover credit card businesses . 
, and Southeast Asian crude imports grew 43 % . 
. 
Southeast Asian crude imports , however , were 3.6 % higher than August . 
But most of them could have afforded to keep up their payments -- they chose not to do so . 
; or perhaps have the down payment deferred to the end of the mortgage -LRB- balloon -RRB- , but `` forgiven '' on a monthly pro-rata basis as long as the owner remains the occupant . 
as long as the owner remains the occupant . 
Worse , the properties then sit around deteriorating for maybe a year or so , but are resold eventually -LRB- because of the attractiveness of the low down payment , etc . -RRB- to a marginal buyer who ca n't afford both the mortgage and needed repairs ; and having little vested interest that buyer will walk away and the vicious cycle repeats itself all over again . 
; and having little vested interest that buyer will walk away and the vicious cycle repeats itself all over again . 
and the vicious cycle repeats itself all over again . 
Still , with competitors such as Eastman Kodak Co. faltering in copier sales , Xerox 's sales increases `` were encouraging , '' says Eugene Glazer of Dean Witter Reynolds Inc . 
, and the restructuring is working , '' he says . 
Mr. Glazer expects Xerox to experience tough sledding , though , in financial services because of rate pressures and uncertainty surrounding tax treatment of capital gains . 
The subsidiary also increased reserves by $ 140 million , however , and set aside an additional $ 25 million for claims connected with Hurricane Hugo . 
The subsidiary also increased reserves by $ 140 million , however , and set aside an additional $ 25 million for claims connected with Hurricane Hugo . 
after shooting up the month before , reflecting weakening auto demand after a spurt of orders for new 1990 models , the Commerce Department reported . 
, after leaping 3.9 % in August , the department said . 
Moreover , a recent government report showing widespread layoffs in manufacturing had contributed to perceptions that the manufacturing sector of the economy had slowed to a crawl . 
But many economists pointed to a 1.8 % September rise in orders outside the volatile transportation category . 
She added , however : `` It is not robust by any means . '' 
. 
, and a government analyst said nearly all areas saw increases , including airplanes , missiles , ships , tanks and communications equipment . 
, government officials say , as the Pentagon scrambles to spend its money before the new fiscal year begins Oct. 1 . 
before the new fiscal year begins Oct. 1 . 
. 
, after declining for the first time in 2 1\/2 years in August . 
But analysts noted that excluding transportation - where what they believe was a temporary surge in auto demand pushed up the figures - order backlogs have declined for three months in a row . 
`` It also means if you have a real drop-off in orders , production will likely fall off very quickly because there is less to keep things going . '' 
. '' 
because there is less to keep things going . '' 
But a Commerce Department analyst said that in both months orders would have risen had it not been for a drop in civilian aircraft bookings , a category that is showing declines only after a huge surge earlier this year . 
Still , Milton Hudson , senior economic adviser at Morgan Guaranty Trust Co. in New York , said : `` If you look back a half-year or so the evidence was pretty good of affirmative strength in the capital-goods sector . Now at least there are question marks about that , and without any question the pace of growth has slowed . 
. 
, and without any question the pace of growth has slowed . 
, and investors applauded the move . 
Still , analysts do n't expect the buy-back to significantly affect per-share earnings in the short term . 
In addition , Mrs. Lidgerwood said , Norfolk is likely to draw down its cash initially to finance the purchases and thus forfeit some interest income . 
and thus forfeit some interest income . 
Longer term , however , the buy-back is expected to increase earnings , especially after 1990 , Mrs. Lidgerwood said . 
Moreover , the extensive program in effect establishes a floor for the stock price , said Joel Price , analyst for Donaldson , Lufkin & Jenrette . 
. '' 
Oddly , though , on the very same page you printed a comment that addresses one of the most serious shortcomings of the American education system . 
, so it could not stand out in an education context . 
as soon as they enter school . '' 
. 
because the government has not converted itself into a modern , democratic , `` developed nation '' mode of operation . 
. 
But less than two years later , the LDP started to crumble , and dissent rose to unprecedented heights . 
, and dissent rose to unprecedented heights . 
so they are capable of making a choice . 
It also allows people to buy the best and the cheapest goods from anywhere in the world . 
, but they seldom think of the poor commuters who spend so much time sitting in traffic . 
And the Ministry of Foreign Affairs works for itself , supporting Japanese diplomats who sprinkle abundant aid money around the world to ensure that their seat at the dinner table is next to the host 's . 
Instead , it seems to be using foreign pressure and even the trade conflict to expand its sphere of influence vis a vis other ministries . 
when Japan was developing . 
because the government provided job stability and growing paychecks . 
because the opposition parties are so often opposed to whatever LDP does that it would be a waste of time . 
So most bills are passed without full discussion ; particularly difficult bills are passed in the absence of the opposition parties . 
and the capture rate of direct tax is so unfair . 
. 
, and a farmer , 30 % . 
But the bill was passed without debate in the Diet , in the absence of the opposition . 
As a result , the Japanese people did n't know what to expect when the new law was introduced on April 1 . 
when the new law was introduced on April 1 . 
. 
. 
-LRB- though they were furious about Recruit -RRB- , women were upset about both and surged to the polls . 
, but they obviously were voting to punish the LDP . 
, then it should split into two parties . 
We must not forget , however , that such a humble political experiment could cause a global tidal wave of shocks in real-estate and financial markets . 
before the LDP fuse burns out . 
But only after a fleet of 336 gargantuan earthmoving vehicles belonging to De Beers Consolidated Mines Ltd. , the world 's diamond kingpins , do their work . 
But only after a fleet of 336 gargantuan earthmoving vehicles belonging to De Beers Consolidated Mines Ltd. , the world 's diamond kingpins , do their work . 
Oh yes , the Atlantic was also pushed back 300 yards . 
, '' says Les Johns , De Beers 's engineering manager . 
. 
. 
. 
. 
The mining zone has thus remained one of the most desolate places in Africa . 
, and gemsbok , hardy antelope with long straight horns , wander in from the desert to drink from water sprinklers . 
Still , miners from all parts of Namibia as well as professional staff from De Beers 's head offices in South Africa and London keep coming . 
And Oranjemund boasts attractions besides diamonds . 
Then there is the artifical sea wall , 600 yards long and 60 yards thick , jutting into the ocean . 
. 
, but the ocean tossed them aside like driftwood . 
Then someone decided to try broken-down earthmoving equipment that , inexplicably , held against the waves . 
when they see their equipment used like that , '' shrugs Mr. George . 
But should they spy one , the company will pay a bonus equal to one-third its value . 
Still , employees do occasionally try to smuggle out a gem or two . 
. 
when there 's been a hanging in the family . '' 
Still , Hugo 's impact may revive unsuccessful proposals to give local governments authority to levy sales taxes . 
, although Gov. Deukmejian says they should be a last resort . 
, and the state constitution makes increasing taxes and spending very difficult . 
But some legislators think the time may be ripe to revise the constitution . 
if its error burdens you with bank charges . 
. 
and the charges have been paid , it will reimburse a taxpayer who has n't refused to give timely answers to IRS inquiries or has n't contributed to continuing or compounding the error . 
. 
within a year after the expense accrues . 
, publisher Prentice Hall notes . 
and also collateralized by the 15 acres . 
But , IRS private ruling 8940061 notes , no rule or court case bears directly on the issue of adding land to a principal residence . 
So the IRS has drawn a rationale from the sale of a home site split in two and sold in different years to the same buyer ; a court let the seller in that old case treat this as the sale of one residence . 
Thus , the IRS says , the Blandings ' $ 200,000 loan is home-acquisition debt , and interest on it is fully deductible . 
, and interest on it is fully deductible . 
, but do n't bet that contractors ' unreported income will be detected that way . 
, but he does n't want to earn so much that Social Security reduces his benefits . 
So he has arranged for a university foundation to set up a scholarship fund for undergraduate engineering students . 
So he asked the IRS if the plan would work . 
. 
, even if indirectly . 
, the IRS says ; of course , he also may take a charitable deduction for them . 
The critics also lambasted the magazine industry for something executives often are very proud of : the growth in magazine titles during the 1980s . 
... but the general interest magazine is something we all miss , and it should come back . '' 
, and it should come back . '' 
Mr. Lauder also attacked what he sees as the wide imitation of Elle , a fashion magazine published by Diamandis Communications Inc. , and criticized the practice of stacking ads at the front of magazines . 
And Tina Brown , editor of Conde Nast Publications Inc. 's Vanity Fair , said advertisers are frequently asked to take advertising positions in the back of her magazine to relieve ad clutter . `` But advertisers would n't think of it , '' she said . 
`` But advertisers would n't think of it , '' she said . 
... because readers believe they are getting more for what they pay for . 
Nevertheless , Salomon 's stock fell $ 1.125 yesterday to close at $ 23.25 a share in New York Stock Exchange composite trading . 
, and they 'll have difficulty matching the third quarter in the fourth quarter , '' Mr. Blumstein said . 
But some analysts say Salomon has turned the corner . 
because I certainly see signs of improvement , '' says Lawrence Eckenfelder , an analyst at Prudential-Bache Securities . 
But in the second quarter , Salomon posted a record $ 253 million net on revenue of $ 2.33 billion . 
Developers are also eyeing the real estate portfolios of major corporations . 
And other developers may shift from commercial to residential development in the U.S. . 
So developers are saying they will look into distressed properties . 
as long as it 's greener than the one they 're in now . '' 
Developers are also forming more joint ventures with pension funds and insurance companies that can finance big projects . 
Real estate firms are also using their alliances with financial institutions to amass acquisition funds . 
, then try to convince a lender to lend you money in an overbuilt market when you can get pension fund money , buy a portfolio , sell off pieces off it and play your own game ? '' says Jack Rodman , managing partner of the Los Angeles office of Kenneth Leventhal Inc. a national accounting firm . 
when you can get pension fund money , buy a portfolio , sell off pieces off it and play your own game ? '' says Jack Rodman , managing partner of the Los Angeles office of Kenneth Leventhal Inc. a national accounting firm . 
But experts say that when it comes to distressed properties , finding diamonds in the rough is n't easy . 
. 
And to succeed in the turnaround business , he says , developers may have to put in a lot of money and time . 
. 
since the Soviets began encouraging such undertakings in 1987 . 
But some U.S. companies are negotiating projects that could be among the biggest ones to be launched . 
, and it will accept payment only in currencies that can be traded in foreign exchange markets , according to a Sheraton executive . 
Also , Sheldon Aboff , formerly a vice president at Maxwell , was named group vice president with responsibility for various electronic and publishing-group companies . 
, and the game-show `` Jeopardy '' is soon to be Sony-owned . 
But no matter how much Japan gets under our skin , we 'll still have mom and apple pie . 
if the serpent had proffered one to Eve . 
But how sweet it is . 
while getting mealy inside . '' 
as the grand old maverick of American apples plays the role of Hiroshi Appleseed . 
, and the Red Delicious is almost as entrenched as mom . 
But the apple industry is ripe for change . 
, and its prices have dropped below the cost of production , '' says Washington State 's Mr. Norton . 
, though they were less affected than the McIntosh . 
, '' says Mr. Norton , although they have stopped using Alar . 
`` But I 'm going to lose $ 50,000 to $ 60,000 on it . 
, Mr. Broderick says . 
. 
But freshness counts more than it once did , and stores are expanding shelf space for unconventional , but tastier , and often pricier , apples . 
, and stores are expanding shelf space for unconventional , but tastier , and often pricier , apples . 
, '' says David Lane , a scientist at a Canadian horticulture research center in Summerland , British Columbia , and so apples are more of a delicacy there than a big food commodity . 
, '' says David Lane , a scientist at a Canadian horticulture research center in Summerland , British Columbia , and so apples are more of a delicacy there than a big food commodity . 
But in California , says Craig Ito , a Fuji-apple grower , `` There 's a Fuji apple cult . 
. '' 
if he had them . 
But his first crop wo n't be picked till next year . 
. 
Then , as growers bred them more for looks , and to satisfy supermarket chains ' demands of long-term storage , the Red went into decline . 
. 
They do deserve respect , however -- they are almost a year old , probably equal to about 106 in human years . 
, and growing it in U.S. areas with chilly autumns may be tricky . 
Moreover , the frumpy Fuji must compete with an increasingly dolledup Delicious . 
because they were n't waxed and brushed for extra shine . 
And he had n't used hormones , which many growers employ to elongate their Delicious apples for greater eye appeal . 
Still , Mr. Auvil points out , Grannies became popular without big , red looks , so why not Fujis ? 
. 
But recent events indicate that federal credit is out of control . 
, and the program has been rocked by allegations of fraud and mismanagement . 
, and that FHA 's equity fell to minus $ 2.9 billion . 
because the FHA has about $ 300 billion in obligations outstanding and had previously been considered one of the most financially secure credit programs . 
: The federal government holds $ 222 billion in direct loans outstanding and backs an additional $ 550 billion in primary guarantees . 
. 
while still retaining the legitimate benefits these programs can provide , credit policy must : 1 . Use credit to improve the operation of capital markets , not to provide subsidies . 
. 
Thus , subsidized loans tend to turn into giveaway programs , with increasing subsidy and default rates over time . 
only if it intends to use every legal method to collect . 
In contrast , credit programs can be appropriate tools to improve the operation of capital markets . 
For example , legal restrictions on interstate banking once inhibited the supply of credit to the agricultural sector . Farm lending was enacted to correct this problem by providing a reliable flow of lendable funds . 
However , this in no way justifies the huge government subsidies and losses on such loans . 
For example , student loans currently attempt to subsidize college attendance and mitigate problems created by the fact that students ' future earnings are not accepted as collateral . The program provides highly subsidized loans to any student whose family earns less than a particular amount . High default rates , a low interest rate , and government coverage of all interest costs while the student is in school make program costs extremely high . Families that do not need the loan can make money simply by putting the loan in the bank and paying it back when the student graduates . 
while the student is in school make program costs extremely high . 
when the student graduates . 
In contrast , a student loan program that was meant solely to correct capital-market imperfections would allow loans for any student , regardless of family income , at market or near-market rates . 
. 
But it would also encourage lenders to choose more creditworthy customers , and go a long way toward reducing defaults . 
But it would also encourage lenders to choose more creditworthy customers , and go a long way toward reducing defaults . 
For example , the Small Business Administration has had reasonable success in reducing both guarantee rates and default rates in its Preferred Lenders ' Program . 
. 
In addition , it is often possible to obtain a new government loan even if existing debts are not paid off . 
even if existing debts are not paid off . 
, even though at least part of the loan will be paid back . 
, even though at least part of the loan will be paid back . 
until the borrower defaults , so new guarantees do not raise the deficit , even though they create future liabilities for the government . 
, so new guarantees do not raise the deficit , even though they create future liabilities for the government . 
, even though they create future liabilities for the government . 
, while direct loans outstanding have fallen by $ 30 billion . 
, but both are better than the current system , which misstates the costs of new credit programs by amounts that vary substantially and average about $ 20 billion annually , according to the Congressional Budget Office . 
But some analysts , particularly conservative legal scholars , have urged Mr. Bush not to wait for explicit authorization but simply to assert that the Constitution already implicitly gives him the power to exercise a line-item veto . 
But he also said that exercising a test line-item veto is n't a `` top initiative '' on the president 's agenda because he faces more-pressing budget issues at the moment . 
But he also said that exercising a test line-item veto is n't a `` top initiative '' on the president 's agenda because he faces more-pressing budget issues at the moment . 
because he faces more-pressing budget issues at the moment . 
But it would allow considerable flexibility in determining how and when these goals would be achieved . 
The U.S. plan also would ease the transition to freer agriculture trade by allowing some countries to convert non-tariff barriers into tariffs that , together with existing tariffs , then would be phased out over 10 years . 
that , together with existing tariffs , then would be phased out over 10 years . 
before their current negotiating round concludes in December 1990 . 
For instance , the new U.S. package makes clear there would be a transition period during which GATT members could use a combination of tariffs and quotas to cushion their farmers from foreign competition . 
It also says countries could temporarily raise tariffs on certain products if they experience an unusually heavy volume of imports . 
if they experience an unusually heavy volume of imports . 
, and others with a `` relatively minor trade impact '' would be allowed to continue under certain conditions . 
The new U.S. plan also would establish procedures to prevent countries from using health and sanitation rules to impede trade arbitrarily . 
, partly because the company decided to shift more promotions and sales for health and beauty products to the fiscal second quarter . 
Also slowing growth in the U.S. were lackluster results for P&G 's cooking oils , which had a strong year-earlier first quarter . 
`` But I 'm recognizing there 's a good chance they 'll do a bit better than that , '' she says . 
. 
. 
unless they carve out as many solidly minority districts as possible . 
But racial gerrymandering is not the best way to accomplish that essential goal . 
, and that only a white politician can govern on behalf of a white one . 
. 
. 
, because in city-wide elections only black candidates or white candidates who catered to `` black interests '' could win . 
, but in June the Justice Department approved a districting plan for Birmingham that carves out three white-majority districts and six black-majority districts . 
because they could n't afford to offend blacks or whites , '' he said . 
But James Madison refuted that argument in one of the most celebrated political treatises ever written , No. 10 of the Federalist Papers . 
, said Madison , because a representative would be compelled to serve the interests of all his constituents and be servile to none . 
. 
until the trial is completed and judgment entered . 
and judgment entered . 
-- that is , in requesting the TRO , the government will not seek to disrupt the normal , legitimate business activities of the defendant ; will not seek through use of the relation-back doctrine to take from third parties assets legitimately transferred to them ; will not seek to vitiate legitimate business transactions occurring between the defendant and third parties ; and will , in all other respects , assist the court in ensuring that the rights of third parties are protected , through proceeding under -LCB- RICO -RCB- and otherwise . 
, as domestic manufacturers paid the price for heavy incentives earlier this year . 
, while truck sales fell 26 % to 37,860 . 
GM also had dismal results in the first 10 days of the month , while other auto makers reported mixed results . 
, while other auto makers reported mixed results . 
All of the Big Three suffered in the just-ended period , however , with sales of all domestically made cars , including those built at Japanese-managed plants , falling 19 % to 158,863 from a year earlier . 
Sales of domestically made trucks also continued to be sluggish in mid-October , dropping 22.8 % to 94,543 from a year ago . 
, but that may not be enough to prevent inventories from ballooning if sales do n't improve . 
if sales do n't improve . 
, even if car sales improve to a 6.5 million vehicle rate for the quarter . 
until Hurricane Hugo hit the area , but has been down since . 
Chrysler Corp. also hit the rocks in mid-October . 
But sales of domestic cars and trucks at Nissan Motor Corp. rose 26.1 % to 5,651 . 
and the New York Stock Exchange tumbled 7 % . 
However , the short interest figures reported by brokerage and securities clearing firms to the National Association of Securities Dealers include only those trades completed , or settled , by Oct. 13 , rather than trades that occurred on that day , according to Gene Finn , chief economist for the NASD . 
that are to be replaced later ; the short seller hopes the replacement shares bought later will cost less than those that were sold . 
that are to be replaced later ; the short seller hopes the replacement shares bought later will cost less than those that were sold . 
, while Campeau 's increased 62 % . 
and Campeau operates department-store chains and is strained for cash . 
In addition , changes in short interest in some stocks may be caused by arbitrage . 
For example , an investor may seek to profit during some takeover situations by buying stock in one company involved and shorting the stock of the other . 
The weight of Lebanon 's history was also against him ; and it is a history Israel is in danger of repeating . 
; and it is a history Israel is in danger of repeating . 
Yet Israel will neither share power with all these Arabs nor , says its present prime minister , redraw its borders closer to its pre-1967 Jewish heartland . 
before it becomes Beirut . 
But that is not much of a consolation to draw from the failure of General Aoun . 
, and then saw it get left behind in the subsequent rally . 
In contrast , the industrial average recovered almost completely from its skid and closed down 0.1 % . 
; but it finished at 80 7\/8 , down 2 1\/4 on volume of one million shares . 
, and Valley National Corp. was up 1\/8 to 15 1\/8 . 
But the computer-guided selling in response to those developments dealt a serious blow to the over-the-counter market , Mr. DaPuzzo said . 
. '' 
. '' 
and it leaves Nasdaq down more than the Big Board . '' 
Mr. DaPuzzo also complained that the sharp swings in stock prices lately is scaring away retail and foreign investors . 
, Mr. DaPuzzo acknowledged . 
when prices swing so drastically . 
when imbalances occur . 
when no one else will . 
But the recent volatility in stock prices caused by the program trading has made some market makers less willing to soak up the stocks that are for sale . 
because they realize prices can tumble quickly . 
. '' 
because you 're an instant loser . '' 
if it acquires a majority of the company 's shares in a pending rights offering by Kinder-Care Learning Center 's parent , Kinder-Care Inc . 
Shares of KinderCare Inc. closed at 3 1\/2 , also up 1\/4 , on volume of 700,000 . 
, but that it provides earthquake coverage to about 1,400 properties in the stricken area . 
, and XL\/Datacomp confirmed earlier this month that it was in talks with the company about possible modifications to its current IBM-remarketer contract . 
`` Thus we judge it to be not a violation of the ABM treaty at this time . '' 
, five years after we started writing about it . 
. 
So after 70 years , it is confessing the obvious , hoping to be believed about other things . 
. 
. 
It also was detailed in Congressional testimony this past February : An explosion at the Microbiology and Virology Institute in Sverdlovsk released anthrax germs that caused a significant number of deaths . 
. 
And just as we did not believe the tendentious claims of the Congressmen and arms-control advocates who visited Krasnoyarsk , we are in no way persuaded by the assent to the tainted-meat theory by a U.S. team of scientists who met with Soviet counterparts in Washington last year . 
And we certainly do not believe that Mr. Gorbachev or any of his emissaries yet deserve to have the West take their word for it . 
But the stated U.S. position is detailed and specific , and the prospect of biological warfare is profoundly chilling . 
, and the prospect of biological warfare is profoundly chilling . 
or , alternatively , that would give U.S. specialists reasonable confidence that this was a wholly civilian accident . 
. 
but a decision has n't been made . 
The trust also owns half of Manville 's 48 million common shares outstanding . 
But it initially was funded with about $ 765 million and may soon face a cash crunch . 
and its unpaid claims totaled $ 136 million , a large portion of its $ 268 million in cash and marketable securities . 
. 
But he said they are `` to a large degree , housekeeping , '' although some may generate some disagreement . 
, '' although some may generate some disagreement . 
, and that Manville has the right of first refusal to buy those shares . 
, but participants do n't expect a resolution until July 1990 . 
, while unsecured creditors would receive only principal and interest accrued before PS of New Hampshire filed for Bankruptcy Code protection in January 
before PS of New Hampshire filed for Bankruptcy Code protection in January 
In addition , Northeast promised the State of New Hampshire that rate increases would be limited to 5.5 % annually for seven years . 
as thousands of farmers turn the state 's buyers away . 
Many a piglet wo n't be born as a result , and many a ham will never hang in a butcher shop . 
, and many a ham will never hang in a butcher shop . 
But with inflation raging , grain in the barn will still be a safer bet for the private farmer than money in the bank . 
. 
The Communists froze prices instead . 
, and meat disappeared from the shops . 
, and food prices leaped . 
But by the time Solidarity took office in September , the damage was done . 
, as the butcher trundles away . 
, because his old state sources of rye and potatoes are drying up . 
, until something else replaces them . 
But Polish agriculture does possess one great asset already : the private farmer . 
, and they have property . '' 
and the Soviets are learning , family farms thrive where collectives fail . 
And they did try . 
Then the state put in a reservoir to supply the area with drinking water . 
and his brow furrows . 
, and then abandoned it . '' 
. '' 
Yet their best boast is that they produce 32 % of Polish pork . 
as his wife , Wieslawa , sets some chairs out in the sun . 
But it never did let up on the pressure . 
His allotment of materials also did , until the state could n't hold up its end of that bargain . 
, until the state could n't hold up its end of that bargain . 
Yet the state alone sells seeds and machines . 
. 
, but two million acres have gone fallow . 
So the potato crop , once 47 million tons , is down to 35 million . 
. 
Grain , milk and meat come next . 
, although a smokehouse or a local dairy can spring up fast . 
, and my customers have fresh cold cuts every day . 
. 
But the meat-processing machines he picked up are 50 years old . 
. '' 
, when Solidarity leader Lech Walesa accepted the Peasants ' support . 
But until then , and probably long afterward , the Communists ' apparat of obstruction -- from the head of the dairy co-op to the village bank manager -- will stay planted in the Polish countryside . 
And you want to make wicker baskets , too . '' 
And the naczelnik shuts his door . 
, but the cost to the Treasury is sure to aggravate budget pressures this year and next under the Gramm-Rudman deficit reduction law . 
, and budget analysts estimate the increased appropriations will widen the fiscal 1990 deficit by at least $ 1.44 billion unless offsetting spending cuts or new revenues are found by Congress . 
unless offsetting spending cuts or new revenues are found by Congress . 
, and the issue forced a confrontation between the Appropriations Committee leadership and Budget Committee Chairman Leon Panetta , whose California district was at the center of the earthquake last week . 
But the appropriations set in motion spending that adds to an already grim budget picture for fiscal 1991 . 
since the costs will be counted against the share of funds to be allocated to those subcommittees that recently have had the greatest difficulty in staying within the budget . 
, and this urgency has contributed to the speed -- and , critics say , mistakes -- that have accompanied the package of disaster assistance . 
And the state 's delegation is fearful that the new funding will be counted against a separate $ 185 million in federal highway funds it would expect to receive under its normal allocation this year . 
Also , the high price of San Francisco real estate puts the state at odds with federal regulations more attuned to the national average . 
For example , disaster loans , which will go to small businesses and homeowners , offer credit as low as 4 % in some cases . 
But the San Francisco delegation finds itself asking that the cap per household be lifted to $ 500,000 from $ 100,000 to assist the hard hit but often wealthy Marina district . 
, but both the White House and Congress appear most anxious to speed final approval before tonight 's deadline . 
, and the Senate changes are expected to be largely technical -- dealing with highway aid and lifting the ceiling on total Small Business Administration loans to $ 1.8 billion to accommodate the increased activity expected . 
as a House-Senate conference approved a nearly $ 8.5 billion fiscal 1990 military construction bill , representing a 5 % reduction from last year and making severe cuts from Pentagon requests for installations abroad . 
But all funding is cut for the Philippines , and projects in South Korea are cut to $ 13.6 million , or less than a sixth of the administration 's request . 
, and projects in South Korea are cut to $ 13.6 million , or less than a sixth of the administration 's request . 
And $ 70.2 million would go to projects in Tennessee represented by his Senate counterpart and fellow Democrat , Sen. James Sasser . 
, but equally striking is the dominance of Alaska , Pennsylvania and West Virginia because of their power elsewhere in the appropriations process . 
But it gave ground to Mr. Inouye on a number of projects , ranging from a $ 11 million parking garage here , to a land transfer in Hawaii , to a provision to assist the Makwah Indian Tribe in Washington state . 
Meanwhile , House-Senate negotiators have tentatively agreed on a $ 3.18 billion anti-drug and anti-crime intitiative , cutting other federal spending 0.43 % to pay for it . 
, but they 'll be centered in the exploration and production division , which is responsible for locating oil reserves , drilling wells and pumping crude oil and natural gas . 
, while comparable foreign operations earned $ 234 million . 
before workers were notified . 
while others will be transferred to overseas operations . 
if there are `` less intrusive '' alternatives , such as bonds , and in any case not to seek forfeitures `` disproportionate to the defendant 's crime . '' 
when investors yanked their funds after the government demanded a huge pre-trial asset forfeiture . 
after the government demanded a huge pre-trial asset forfeiture . 
Drexel therefore agreed instead to an arrangement allowing it to plea to charges `` which the company is not in a position to dispute '' because of RICO . 
Drexel therefore agreed instead to an arrangement allowing it to plea to charges `` which the company is not in a position to dispute '' because of RICO . 
So after all the prosecutorial hoopla no one has established what , if anything , Drexel did wrong . 
But prosecutorial guidelines are effective only if someone at Justice is willing and able to supervise hyperactive prosecutors . 
only if someone at Justice is willing and able to supervise hyperactive prosecutors . 
, '' and yet RICO defenders `` tell us that we should rely on prosecutorial discretion to protect against overbreadth of RICO . '' 
, '' and yet RICO defenders `` tell us that we should rely on prosecutorial discretion to protect against overbreadth of RICO . '' 
and by next week the network may announce `` Teddy Z '' is moving to 8:30 p.m. from its 9:30 time slot , replacing `` The People Next Door , '' which became the first network show to be canceled this season . 
and by next week the network may announce `` Teddy Z '' is moving to 8:30 p.m. from its 9:30 time slot , replacing `` The People Next Door , '' which became the first network show to be canceled this season . 
But five weeks after the premiere , the series has floundered . 
'' and viewership on CBS picks up again once `` Teddy Z '' is over and is followed by `` Designing Women . '' 
once `` Teddy Z '' is over and is followed by `` Designing Women . '' 
, while the number dropped to 12.6 % for `` Teddy Z '' and rose to 14.2 % for `` Designing Women . '' 
CBS executives said the program is also slated to undergo some plot changes . 
Creator Hugh Wilson , for example , included the lead character 's Greek family in the cast , `` but that is not the right focus anymore , '' said one CBS executive . Instead , CBS hopes the show will increasingly highlight the talent agency and the business of being an agent . 
, `` but that is not the right focus anymore , '' said one CBS executive . 
Instead , CBS hopes the show will increasingly highlight the talent agency and the business of being an agent . 
`` But we hope to keep a balance between the office and the family . '' 
as investors sought safety amid growing evidence the economy is weakening . 
But the shaky economic outlook and the volatile stock market forced the dollar lower against major currencies . 
. 
But analysts said the combination of a second consecutive decline in monthly durable-goods orders and lackluster mid-October auto sales helped prop up the Treasury market . 
But orders for non-defense capital goods , a precursor of future plant and equipment spending , were off 5.6 % after falling 10.3 % in August . 
after falling 10.3 % in August . 
. 
But as stock prices recovered some of the early losses , so did the U.S. currency . 
. 
. 
and as the U.S. economy weakens , the dollar ended down only modestly . 
, while a Beverly Hills judge tucked away Zsa Zsa Gabor for three days , plus 120 hours of work with homeless women . 
, but production has been slowed by a strike of 55,000 machinists , which entered its 22nd day today . 
. 
But as you may know , things are not going well for Violetta . 
; and though a successful courtesan , she is just about overdrawn at the bank . 
; her country hideaway also has a very active set of drapes . 
Just when Ms. Gruberova sat down away from her guests to cough in private , her salon began sliding around the stage ; her country hideaway also has a very active set of drapes . 
as the sets started to roll around once more . 
But this is a production designed and directed by Franco Zeffirelli and paid for by Sybil Harrington , who has no need to count her pennies , unlike Violetta , down to 20 louis at the opera 's end . 
. 
Or is it that Mr. Z. is getting a little tired of `` Traviata '' ? 
, and its scenic ideas echo the movie he made with Placido Domingo and Teresa Stratas . 
when then she remembers the great parties she used to throw . 
, rising deliriously when then she remembers the great parties she used to throw . 
, though as luck would have it , for a change there actually was a conductor in the pit whom we wanted to hear , Carlos Kleiber , trying to make memorable music while we all waited for the bed lump to stir into song . 
while we all waited for the bed lump to stir into song . 
. 
, and whether this has to do with Mr. Kleiber or the wooden cast is hard to say . 
after failing to reach a settlement with its musicians , who wanted pay parity with the the Chicago Lyric and San Francisco Opera orchestras . 
once they have had time to ponder their entertainment choices . 
I , for instance , was perfectly happy at Avery Fisher Hall the other day listening to Helmuth Rilling conduct the Messa per Rossini , a strange piece written by 13 different Italian composers to honor Rossini after his death in 1868 . 
after Bologna refused to supply a chorus and orchestra . 
since the operatic `` Libera me '' was reworked for the Manzoni Requiem , of which he wrote every note himself having learned his lesson . 
Also , Teodulo Mabellini 's `` Lux aeterna '' was intriguingly scored and splendidly put across by Mr. Rilling . 
, but it made its mark : It awarded the largest cash prize of any film festival to young and first-time film makers . 
By comparison , Cannes now gives $ 39,000 to the winner of its young director 's award . 
... and most of the films have been seen before at other festivals . '' 
when they buy shares or domestic bonds will have to pay an additional 100 Belgian francs -LRB- about $ 2.60 -RRB- for each transaction , bringing the total fee to 200 francs . 
, in some cases to avoid paying high inheritance taxes . 
, '' the spokesman said . 
He said Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu also is studying the possibility of a visit to the two Eastern bloc nations and to Western Europe next January . 
And in Paris , Mahmoud Vaezi , Iran 's vice minister of foreign affairs , began a five-day visit to discuss such matters as compensation to French enterprises for contracts broken by the Khomeini regime . 
, it also stores the data for up to 130 days . 
. 
either because the statute of limitations expired or because many prefer to spend additional time in jail rather than return the money , '' the prosecutor said . 
or because many prefer to spend additional time in jail rather than return the money , '' the prosecutor said . 
either because the statute of limitations expired or because many prefer to spend additional time in jail rather than return the money , '' the prosecutor said . 
. '' 
after the stock market closed . 
But domestic consumer sales slipped 1.2 % for the quarter , to $ 490 million from $ 496 million . 
largely because the effect of unfavorable exchange rates has been easing -- a pattern continuing this quarter . 
He cautioned , however , that a `` tough tax-rate comparison '' may slow the company 's earnings growth for the current quarter . 
. 
He also questioned whether recent gains in that country can be sustained . 
It also owns Moody 's Investors Service , which assigns credit-ratings to bonds and preferred stock ; A.C. Nielsen , known for its data on television-viewing patterns , and Yellow-pages publisher Donnelley . 
But analysts focused more on the drop in revenue , to $ 1.04 billion from $ 1.07 billion , reflecting in part a continuing drop in sales of the controversial credit-reporting services . 
because it is unlikely to outperform the market . 
; in fact , the recent pace of selling is just about average for the company , according to figures compiled by Invest\/Net , a North Miami , Fla. , firm that specializes in tracking and analyzing SEC insider filings . 
But previous sales have often been sales of shares purchased through the exercise of stock options and sold six months later , as soon as allowed , said Robert Gabele , president of Invest\/Net . 
, as soon as allowed , said Robert Gabele , president of Invest\/Net . 
because he felt they were `` a good investment . '' 
shortly before being named to his current chief executive officer 's position ; formerly he was Kraft General Foods ' chief operating officer . 
'' and Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. lists it as a `` buy . '' 
But since the time of Darwin , we humans could at least claim a sort of natural necessity for the existence of our species . 
, then it was only a matter of eons before splendid beings endowed with reason , self-awareness and taste shimmered onto the scene . 
before splendid beings endowed with reason , self-awareness and taste shimmered onto the scene . 
Yet he puts quite a twist on the old story handed down from Darwin . 
Accordingly , the hidebound traditionalist reconstructed hypothetical organisms from the Burgess fossils in such a way that they could be shoehorned into familiar categories . 
Interest picks up , though , when Mr. Gould gets around to discussing the meaning of the Burgess oddities for the theory of evolution . 
, when Mr. Gould gets around to discussing the meaning of the Burgess oddities for the theory of evolution . 
The vast majority of them , however , were wiped out by a succession of environmental upheavals that were too sudden and catastrophic for the normal rules of natural selection to operate . 
Consequently , the winnowing process was like a lottery `` in which each group -LCB- held -RCB- a ticket unrelated to its anatomical virtues . 
because they were small , not smart . 
. 
. 
I , by contrast , can not help feeling that if some other curiosity from the Burgess Shale had survived instead , beings at once wiser and less boorish than Homo sapiens might have eventually gained earthly dominion . 
. 
I , by contrast , can not help feeling that if some other curiosity from the Burgess Shale had survived instead , beings at once wiser and less boorish than Homo sapiens might have eventually gained earthly dominion . 
But even if no conscious life had evolved here at all , the universe is a big place , and given the right conditions , sympathetic to creating some form of life . 
. 
But David Runkel , chief Justice Department spokesman , said the guidelines `` are a codification and a clarification far more than a new direction . '' 
before a jury determines they have committed a crime and that aggressive use of the forfeiture provisions can ruin corporate defendants or force them into unfavorable plea bargains . 
and that aggressive use of the forfeiture provisions can ruin corporate defendants or force them into unfavorable plea bargains . 
The guidelines also state , `` The government 's policy is not to seek the fullest forfeiture permissible under the law where that forfeiture would be disproportionate to the defendant 's crime . '' 
because the decision whether to use -LCB- racketeering charges -RCB- is made in individual cases '' by Justice Department officials in Washington , he said . 
because the decision whether to use -LCB- racketeering charges -RCB- is made in individual cases '' by Justice Department officials in Washington , he said . 
But Mr. Runkel said the government is n't `` backing off on these kinds of matters at all . 
, but yesterday the House approved a more general scaled-back measure calling for $ 2.85 billion in aid , the bulk of which would go to California , with an unspecified amount going to regions affected by Hurricane Hugo . 
and so drastically limits its options in an emergency . 
According to a spokesman , the governor is also studying the possibility of raising state gasoline taxes . 
Mr. Brown , meanwhile , believes `` only one tax will be feasible , and it will be a one-penny sales tax increase , '' said Chuck Dalldorf , an aide . 
, and it will be a one-penny sales tax increase , '' said Chuck Dalldorf , an aide . 
But the fund 's size is disputed by Mr. Brown 's office , which estimates the fund holds from $ 630 million to $ 800 million . 
Moreover , an aide to Mr. Brown said Gov. Deukmejian `` has expressed a desire not to spend all the reserve on this . '' 
To push through a sales tax increase , however , the state will have to suspend the Gann limit , citing an emergency . 
And then it will be required to lower taxes by a corresponding amount during a three-year period after the temporary tax increase ends , said Cindy Katz , assistant director of the state department of finance . 
And then it will be required to lower taxes by a corresponding amount during a three-year period after the temporary tax increase ends , said Cindy Katz , assistant director of the state department of finance . 
after the temporary tax increase ends , said Cindy Katz , assistant director of the state department of finance . 
But observers expect broad support . 
, '' said Kirk West , president of the California Chamber of Commerce . 
and there are n't sufficient funds from elsewhere , I think the attitude will be supportive , '' said Kirk West , president of the California Chamber of Commerce . 
But others think property owners ought to pay a higher portion of the state 's earthquake relief tab . 
The state could also increase gasoline taxes ; every one penny increase in the tax would yield $ 11 million a month . 
But Gov. Deukmejian and others are reluctant to do anything to harm the state 's chances of sharply raising gasoline taxes on a permanent basis . 
But some fear imposing a temporary gasoline tax increase in the meantime could undercut support among voters for the measure . 
But some fear imposing a temporary gasoline tax increase in the meantime could undercut support among voters for the measure . 
Separately , two men injured in last week 's earthquake-triggered freeway collapse in Oakland began a legal battle against the state over whether officials adequately heeded warnings about the structure 's safety . 
and that they failed to make reasonable changes . 
There are also $ 40 million of uninsured subordinate lien bonds , due Dec. 1 , 2008 , and Dec. 1 , 2015 . 
Meanwhile , the $ 50 million of Series C bonds , which are suject to the alternative minimum tax , were priced at par to yield from 6.25 % in 1990 to 7.10 % to 2000 . 
But a chance to fill out sales-tax records is rarely one of them . 
Yet every business owner has to face the mound of forms and regulations -- and often is the only one available to tackle it . 
Thus , optimistic entrepreneurs await a promised land of less red tape -- just as soon as Uncle Sam gets around to arranging it . 
-- just as soon as Uncle Sam gets around to arranging it . 
Meanwhile , they tackle the mounds of paper -- and fantasize about a dream world where bulk-mail postal regulations and government inspectors are banished . 
is red tape they would also hate to lose . 
But gripes run the gamut . 
because `` it was n't heavy enough , it could n't have been correct , '' Mr. Maguire says . 
-- and that 's a big problem for small businesses . 
`` if you 're on the road and you 're the one responsible , '' says Eddie Brown , president of Brown Capital Management Inc. , a Baltimore money-management firm . 
and you 're the one responsible , '' says Eddie Brown , president of Brown Capital Management Inc. , a Baltimore money-management firm . 
if its employee manuals do n't reflect the most recent laws , he says . 
But the ever-changing laws are usually so complicated and confusing that `` you need professionals to help you ; you ca n't do it yourself , '' he adds . 
, but it 's costly and time-consuming , '' Ms. Fixx says . 
-- but the exemption comes at a price of exhaustive records and rigorous reviews . 
. 
Trinity Rep meanwhile is one of the nation 's oldest and most respected regional theaters , still hosting an annual `` A Christmas Carol . '' 
And Gorky , considered the father of Soviet socialist realism , did not write plays that easily lend themselves to deliberately antirealistic distancing techniques . 
And `` Summerfolk , '' penned in 1904 as a kind of sequel to Chekhov 's `` Cherry Orchard , '' is a lawn party of Russian yuppies engaged in an exhausting ideological fight to the finish between the allrightniks and the reformers . 
Along the way there also are lots of romantic dalliances . 
But beyond this decorative nod to tradition , Ms. Bogart and company head off in a stylistic direction that all but transforms Gorky 's naturalistic drama into something akin to , well , farce . 
, but they often literally stand on their heads . 
as if they were rag dolls , sprawling them on staircases , dangling them off tables , even hanging them from precipices while having them perform some gymnastic feats of derring-do . 
while having them perform some gymnastic feats of derring-do . 
, but the nuance and richness of Gorky 's individual characters have vanished in the scuffle . 
. 
when she wants , as she so often does want , to express herself through Gorky 's helpless play . 
and whom she equipped with a spanking new $ 60,000 sound system and recording studio . 
Indeed , during a recent post-production audience discussion , the director explained that her fondest artistic wish was to find a way to play `` Somewhere Over the Rainbow '' so that the song 's `` original beauty comes through , '' surmounting the cliche . 
'' so that the song 's `` original beauty comes through , '' surmounting the cliche . 
But it is the Trinity Rep newcomer , Jonathan Fried -LRB- Zamislov , the paralegal -RRB- who is the actor to watch , whether he is hamming it up while conducting the chamber musicians or seducing his neighbor 's wife -LRB- Becca Lish -RRB- by licking her bosom . 
while conducting the chamber musicians or seducing his neighbor 's wife -LRB- Becca Lish -RRB- by licking her bosom . 
`` Hostile '' thus entered the merger-acquisition lexicon . 
and within five days ESB had a `` white knight '' as United Aircraft -- headed by Harry Gray , a shrewdly friendly acquirer of companies -- offered $ 34 a share . 
'' as United Aircraft -- headed by Harry Gray , a shrewdly friendly acquirer of companies -- offered $ 34 a share . 
, but a whirlwind bidding match ensued . 
and United matched it . 
and then to $ 41 , equal to $ 225.5 million . 
but then withdrew . 
and the brief battle -- unlike the intricate and lengthy big takeovers of 1984-1989 -- was over . 
However , HomeFed 's loan originations and purchases plunged 26 % in the quarter , to $ 1.4 billion from $ 1.9 billion a year earlier . 
Meanwhile , non-performing assets rose to $ 593 million from $ 518.7 million . 
, but it expects sales to pick up in the rest of the year . 
But HomeFed said it purposely curbed loan originations in the quarter because of uncertainty over the new capital requirements and regulations that will emerge from negotiations over implementing the government 's massive thrift bailout bill . 
And analysts said they see no signs of an imminent swoon in California real estate , even with last week 's earthquake . 
The thrift said earnings also were nicked in the quarter by a $ 4 million provision for losses associated with its previously reported plan to liquidate a real-estate franchise network . 
after moving steadily upward for more than a year . 
and on one-year CDs the average yield rose to 8.30 % from 8.09 % . 
So-called jumbo CDs , typically in denominations of $ 90,000 and up , also usually follow T-bills and interest rate trends in general more than those aimed at small investors . 
, while the two-year average fell by the same amount to 7.89 % . 
Some , however , lowered yields significantly . 
At Chase Manhattan Bank in New York , for example , the yield on a small denomination six-month CD fell about a quarter of a percentage point to 8.06 % . 
He said it also agreed to sell a portion of its European real estate unit for $ 37 million . 
Murata said , however , it will invest about 1.4 billion yen -LRB- $ 9.9 million -RRB- in the new company . 
But it said the year-earlier results included gains of $ 23.5 million from divestitures . 
But the firm has never had a day like yesterday . 
. 
, but a big rally developed in the last half hour , pushing the stock back up to close at $ 170 , down just $ 8.375 from Monday . 
when they could and yelling until their voices gave out , the two Benjamin Jacobson specialists at the Big Board 's UAL trading post yesterday presided over what can only be described as a financial free-for-all . 
until their voices gave out , the two Benjamin Jacobson specialists at the Big Board 's UAL trading post yesterday presided over what can only be described as a financial free-for-all . 
But we like to call it ` controlled chaos , ' '' said 47-year-old Robert J. Jacobson Jr. , grandson of the firm 's founder . 
before UAL resumed trading like a regular airline stock after months of gyrations . 
. '' 
, traded in the third market afterward as low as $ 158 a share . 
And at 9:15 , they posted a $ 135 to $ 155 `` first indication , '' or the price range in which the stock would probably open . 
, although traders surrounding the post were told that $ 148 to $ 150 would be the likely target . 
. 
so the specialists could catch their breath . 
, but he sweat so much he considered sending out for a new shirt . 
But yesterday , the heavy trading action eventually consumed not only Messrs. Jacobson and Bates but four other Jacobson partners , all doing their specialist-firm job of tugging buyers and sellers together and adjusting prices to accommodate the market . 
, and probably hundreds more came and went -- a `` seething mass , '' as one trader described it . 
'' as UAL jumped $ 20 a share to $ 170 in the last half hour , said Mr. Bates . 
, but the improvement comes amid increasing concern that a recession could strike the U.K. economy next year . 
He also said investment by businesses is falling off . 
, while only 28 % plan to spend more . 
But despite mounting recession fears , government data do n't yet show the economy grinding to a halt . 
Unemployment , for example , has continued to decline , and the September trade figures showed increases in both imports and exports . 
, and the September trade figures showed increases in both imports and exports . 
As a result , Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher 's government is n't currently expected to ease interest rates before next spring , if then . 
But he said the downturn probably wo n't become a `` major contraction '' similar to those of 1974 and 1982 . 
Still , Britain 's current slump is a cause for concern here as the nation joins in the European Community 's plan to create a unified market by 1992 . 
as the nation joins in the European Community 's plan to create a unified market by 1992 . 
As a result , Mr. Owen warned , investment will be more likely to flow toward the other European economies and `` the U.K. will be less prepared for the single market . '' 
But while September exports rose to # 8.43 billion , imports shot up to # 10.37 billion . 
. 
, '' Mr. Owen said . 
Vickers said its offer also includes an option to receive a redeemable loan note in lieu of cash . 
? 
The group , which has held half a dozen seminars so far , also is considering promotional videos and perhaps a pitch to Wall Street investment bankers . 
`` But the real future of this game is in a number of people owning a few horses . '' 
a week before the market plummeted 190 points on Oct. 13 , and he is using the money to help buy a 45-acre horse farm . 
, and he is using the money to help buy a 45-acre horse farm . 
if that 's your horse , '' he says . 
But experts caution that this is n't a game for anyone with a weak stomach or wallet . 
And many have done just that . 
But that 's for the best horses , with most selling for much less -- as little as $ 100 for some pedestrian thoroughbreds . 
. 
And for every champion , there are plenty of nags . 
, while another had splints on its legs , keeping both animals from the racetrack . 
, sometimes after they received advice from industry `` consultants . '' 
So owners have developed a `` code of ethics , '' outlining rules for consultants and agents , and disclosure of fees and any conflicts of interest . 
But some are skeptical of the code 's effectiveness . 
But that means paying the horse 's maintenance ; on average , it costs $ 25,000 a year to raise a horse . 
Dunkin ' Donuts , based in Randolph , Mass. , previously said it would explore `` alternatives , '' including a leveraged buy-out of the company , but had n't set a date for submission of proposals . 
, '' but he added the board has n't decided whether to sell the doughnut franchiser . 
as the company closed out certain long-term contracts . 
, and it narrowed its losses in its public sector and environmental segment . 
, if Axa succeeds in acquiring Farmers . 
Axa would also maintain Farmers ' relationships with the insurance exchanges that it manages . 
, and Mr. Bebear 's trip will take him to Idaho , Arizona and New York after his stay here ; he will meet with insurance regulators , legislators , industry excutives and the press . 
. 
, Mr. Bebear nonetheless appears to be trying to woo the company 's executives with promises of autonomy and new-found authority under Axa . 
until the `` tax treatment has been determined . 
Gains in advertising revenue , however , resulted in operating profit of $ 78.4 million -- up 20 % from $ 65.6 million . 
if Pentagon and Justice Department officials take a tough stance . 
But the government now claims that a group of company managers and lawyers engaged in an elaborate strategy over five years to obscure from federal authorities the extent and details of `` widespread '' fraudulent billing practices . 
and therefore should become eligible again for new contracts , prosecutors contend that `` high-level GE executives '' and company lawyers provided `` misleading statements '' to then-Air Force Secretary Verne Orr and other Pentagon officials during a series of meetings in 1985 . 
. 
When GE finally disclosed the problems , prosecutors contend that Mr. Orr `` was erroneously informed that the -LCB- suspected -RCB- practices had only just been discovered '' by GE management . 
, and that the information was passed on quickly to Mr. Orr at his first meeting with company representatives . 
after the company and two of its units were briefly suspended from federal contracts , were held to familiarize Mr. Orr with the company 's self-policing procedures and to disclose additional information , according to GE . 
`` On the contrary , it shows a corporation reacting swiftly and aggressively to very difficult issues in largely uncharted waters . '' 
because Applied Solar is involved in solar cells and solid-state laser components , and this fits with McDonnell 's business of laser applications for military space . 
, and this fits with McDonnell 's business of laser applications for military space . 
But Mr. Hemming said he was n't aware of the nature of the talks under way between committee members and their advisers . 
, before trading was halted . 
, and stocks fell in Frankfurt and across Europe as well . 
Market watchers also noted an absence of institutional interest later in the session helped pave the way for broader declines when Wall Street opened weaker . 
when Wall Street opened weaker . 
, but the action largely helped open the way for London 's late declines . 
, and Sun Life dropped 15 to # 11.53 . 
when U.K. government share regulations are lifted at the end of next year . 
The market , however , is expected to remain stable and expectations for future gains are high , traders said . 
and expectations for future gains are high , traders said . 
, simply because there are few bad factors . '' 
On the other hand , high-priced shares such as Pioneer Electronic and Sony failed to spark investor interest because these issues are unlikely to be bought by investment trust funds , observers said . 
because these issues are unlikely to be bought by investment trust funds , observers said . 
, and Fanuc dropped 160 to 7,440 . 
as worried investors remained idle as the result of two potentially destabilizing domestic developments . 
, as small investors remain on the sidelines . 
, but they have also been made nervous by two events in West Germany . 
, but they have also been made nervous by two events in West Germany . 
And statements by the chairman of the IG Metall labor union , Franz Steinkuehler , also cast a cloud over trading , dealers said . 
And statements by the chairman of the IG Metall labor union , Franz Steinkuehler , also cast a cloud over trading , dealers said . 
, as Siemens tumbled 7.5 to 544 , Deutsche Bank plunged 7 to 657 , and the auto makers fell sharply as well . 
, and the auto makers fell sharply as well . 
, and Volkswagen lost 7.1 . 
But that does n't necessarily mean thrifts are discriminating against blacks , the agency said . 
and thus ca n't determine why blacks are rejected more often . 
Nevertheless , on Capitol Hill , where the information was released yesterday at a Senate banking subcommittee hearing , lawmakers said they are worried that financial institutions are routinely discriminating against minorities . 
But when blacks are getting their loan applications rejected twice as often as whites -- and in some cities , it is three and four times as often -- I conclude that discrimination is part of the problem . '' 
. '' 
-- and in some cities , it is three and four times as often -- I conclude that discrimination is part of the problem . '' 
, but lacking the financial data you ca n't make a case that discrimination is widespread . '' 
The legislation also requires broad new disclosures of the race , sex and income level of borrowers , but that information wo n't be gathered in new studies for several months at least . 
, but that information wo n't be gathered in new studies for several months at least . 
But John LaWare , a Fed governor , told the subcommittee the evidence is mixed and that the Fed 's believes the vast majority of banks are n't discriminating . 
and that the Fed 's believes the vast majority of banks are n't discriminating . 
For instance , he noted , the Fed studies have shown that blacks receive more home improvement loans than whites . 
, '' said Sen. Donald Riegle -LRB- D. , Mich. -RRB- , chairman of the banking committee , `` then that is a matter that needs remedy now , not six months from now , or six years from now , or 26 years from now . '' 
The comptroller 's office also said that of 37,000 complaints it received since January 1987 , only 16 alleged racial discrimination in real estate lending . 
but no violations were cited . 
, but Mr. Grohl said the U.S. League of Savings Institutions had n't yet taken any position on the matter . 
Time is also fighting the transaction on other fronts , by attempting to discourage other cable operators from joining Tele-Communications as investors in Showtime , cable-TV industry executives say . 
, and the two have a number of other business relationships . 
after it is consummated , or may seek constraints that would prevent Tele-Communications from dropping HBO in any of its cable systems in favor of Showtime . 
But he said that any effort by Time to characterize the Tele-Communications investment in Showtime as anti-competitive would be `` the pot calling the kettle black . '' 
, when the stronger of the two networks is owned by the second largest '' cable operator , Mr. Kern said . 
, Time Warner separately operates cable-TV system serving about 5.6 million cable-TV subscribers . 
, and Viacom has about one million . 
, particularly since Viacom also owns cable networks MTV , VH-1 and Nick at Nite . 
, Viacom has potentially more power , particularly since Viacom also owns cable networks MTV , VH-1 and Nick at Nite . 
, while Time Warner has a 17.8 % stake . 
But since Time 's merger with Warner Communications Inc. , relations between the two have become strained . 
Meanwhile , some legal observers say the Tele-Communications investment and other developments are weakening Viacom 's antitrust suit against Time . 
But yesterday , Manhattan Cable announced it will launch Showtime on Nov. 1 to over 230,000 subscribers . 
Showtime has also accused HBO of locking up the lion 's share of Hollywood 's movies by signing exclusive contracts with all the major studios . 
But Showtime has continued to sign new contracts with Hollywood studios , and yesterday announced it will buy movies from Columbia Pictures Entertainment Inc. , which currently has a non-exclusive arrangement with HBO . 
. 
And they say the outlook for 1990 is nearly as bad . 
and many carriers seemed to be growing fat on near-monopolies in certain markets . 
The downturn also raises questions about the carriers ' ambitious orders for new airplanes , which currently total $ 32.5 billion over the next three years . 
For travelers , though , the industry 's problems have had some positive effects . 
Previously , airlines were limiting the programs because they were becoming too expensive . 
because they were becoming too expensive . 
Just last week , for example , Trans World Airlines and Pan Am Corp. 's Pan American World Airways went so far as to offer cash rebates or gift checks of $ 200 to $ 1,000 to certain frequent-flier members making trans-Atlantic flights in business class or first class . 
. 
, because USAir has almost no competition in its Pittsburgh hub and has expanded operations by completing its acquisition of Piedmont Airlines . 
. 
because hefty fare increases earlier in the year scared off many leisure travelers this summer . 
But so far , the effort has failed , and traffic is still slow . 
, and traffic is still slow . 
if they were traveling with an adult . 
, but it still was apparently used far more heavily than the airlines expected . 
Airlines also say their frequent-flier programs are squeezing profits because awards are being redeemed at a heavier-than-normal rate . 
because awards are being redeemed at a heavier-than-normal rate . 
, as the airlines last year allowed many travelers to build up mileage at triple the normal rate . 
And some carriers are facing other unexpected headaches : USAir , for example , blamed some of its loss on merger expenses and on disruptions caused by Hurricane Hugo last month . 
: USAir , for example , blamed some of its loss on merger expenses and on disruptions caused by Hurricane Hugo last month . 
But now , Charlie Brown is about to start pitching everything from Chex Party Mix to light bulbs . 
-- and Scripps Howard 's United Media unit , the syndicator and licensing agent for Charles Schulz 's comic strip , sees a bonanza in licensing the cartoon characters to a bevy of advertisers for ads , tie-ins and promotions . 
The characters will also be featured in a new public service effort for the United Way . 
All the tie-ins , though , have some marketing experts questioning whether the party may go too far . 
. 
But United Media says it 's very scrupulous with the contracts it hands out . 
But Mr. Shore says that company 's exclusive advertising rights extend only to the insurance and financial services category . 
after being asked by Ogilvy 's chairman and chief executive officer , Kenneth Roman , to give up his title as creative head of the New York office and to take a fuzzier international role . 
. 
and that his decision was unrelated to Mr. Roman 's departure . 
, but industry executives say it will spend more than $ 140 million this year , down from about $ 200 million last year . 
after IBM acquires its interest . 
, Mr. Bond maintained . 
, and the company 's property portfolio is undervalued by at least A$ 250 million , Mr. Bond said . 
even though they see the U.S. luxury-car market expanding slightly . 
Mr. Krampe also said that Mercedes plans to bring out new models every year through the mid-1990s and it will shorten its product development cycle to eight years from 10 or 12 years to compete more effectively with Toyota Motor Corp. 's Lexus , Nissan Motor Co. 's Infiniti and Honda Motor Co. 's Acura luxury-car divisions . 
and it will shorten its product development cycle to eight years from 10 or 12 years to compete more effectively with Toyota Motor Corp. 's Lexus , Nissan Motor Co. 's Infiniti and Honda Motor Co. 's Acura luxury-car divisions . 
unless it has assurance of enactment of legislation to raise the statutory debt limit before the scheduled auctions Monday . 
and it expects them to continue to do so in the remainder of the fiscal year . 
, but its contribution to higher production was sapped in September by the estimated 2 % fall in imports , accompanied by a growing tendency for Japanese manufacturers to build vehicles overseas , according to the association . 
He also said the introduction of a 3 % consumption tax in April has helped sales . 
Bus production also slipped , by 49 % from a year earlier to 2,936 units . 
after the market closed Monday , initially prompted a severe sell-off in UAL shares , which at midday traded as low as $ 145 a share , down $ 33 a share , in composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange . 
, who by then had seen UAL stock tumble 49 % since Oct. 12 , also triggered a marketwide sell-off that sent the Dow Jones Industrial Average down more than 80 points at 10:40 a.m . 
The deepening bloodbath for takeover-stock traders , who by then had seen UAL stock tumble 49 % since Oct. 12 , also triggered a marketwide sell-off that sent the Dow Jones Industrial Average down more than 80 points at 10:40 a.m . 
But then steady , concentrated buying by Bear , Stearns & Co. , which frequently buys stock for corporate raiders , took hold and steadied the fall in UAL , which eventually buoyed the entire market . 
But then steady , concentrated buying by Bear , Stearns & Co. , which frequently buys stock for corporate raiders , took hold and steadied the fall in UAL , which eventually buoyed the entire market . 
However , one person familiar with UAL said the signs pointed to Coniston because Mr. Trump has n't asked for permission to buy more than $ 15 million of stock under federal antitrust rules . 
because Mr. Trump has n't asked for permission to buy more than $ 15 million of stock under federal antitrust rules . 
But partner Richard Nye said , `` This is the most extraordinary failed transaction I 've seen in 25 years in this business . 
Inc. that ultimately led to Leaseway 's being sold . 
But those would require pilots ' cooperation . 
, and the machinists contract expires next month . 
However , a catalyst like Coniston could seek shareholder support for a sale to a labor-management group at the last price discussed by that group before the board meeting Monday . 
, '' particularly since it accepted a $ 300-a-share offer just last month . 
But the board 's decision prompted many to bail out of the stock yesterday . 
, but they ca n't check out . '' 
But both the traders and the pilots remain interested in some transaction . 
It is unclear , however , if the machinists would support a majority stake , as the pilots want . 
And a spokesman for Reliance Group Holdings Inc. , which had held 7 % of UAL before the first buy-out bid but later reduced its holdings below 5 % , would n't comment . 
but later reduced its holdings below 5 % , would n't comment . 
unless he makes a formal offer of $ 300 a share or UAL accepts an offer below $ 300 . 
However , Mr. Davis could pressure the board by asking that the agreement be waived , or letting it be known that he has financing for an offer at a lower price . 
, and then triggered stop-loss orders on its way down to settle at $ 1.1510 a pound , off 4.50 cents for the day . 
if the market hits a predetermined price . 
But though a weakening economy implies reduced demand , Mr. Kaiser said that Third World copper-producing countries have n't any choice but to sell copper . 
. 
when the price was in the $ 1.24 to $ 1.26 range , thinking there was support at the $ 1.20 level . 
. 
and then yesterday could n't climb above that level , traders started selling out their positions . 
, '' she added . 
, then copper will respond positively , if it is worse then more selling could ensue , '' she predicted . 
then more selling could ensue , '' she predicted . 
Yesterday , for example , `` the durable goods numbers came out for September and the number was down only 0.1 % , '' she said . `` However , if you exclude defense-related orders then durable goods were down 3.9 % . I believe that number reflects a slowing economy . '' 
and the number was down only 0.1 % , '' she said . 
`` However , if you exclude defense-related orders then durable goods were down 3.9 % . 
then durable goods were down 3.9 % . 
She said copper traders will also be looking toward the release of the index of leading economic indicators next Tuesday . 
However , David Threlkeld , president of Threlkeld & Co. , an international metals company , noted that so far this year copper consumption is way ahead of the same period of 1988 , and that projected production is below last year . 
, and that projected production is below last year . 
`` But , '' he added , `` we have had that exact same perception six times in the last six years . '' 
. 
. '' 
before ending the session four cents lower at $ 19.72 a barrel for December delivery . 
But an early 80-point drop in the Dow Jones Industrial Average stopped the crude rally cold . 
, but petroleum futures never shook off the chill . 
, but the sales do n't seem to have materialized . 
when uncertainty prevails in the financial markets as it did '' yesterday , she said . 
and its price lagging relative to gold says that traders are expecting a weakening economy , '' he said . 
after trading in relatively narrow ranges because of strong selling in the cash market and continued favorable harvest weather . 
, but the sale was expected and failed to buoy prices yesterday , said Dale Gustafson , a futures analyst with Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. in Chicago . 
, but then faltered and closed lower . 
, and then encountered heavy selling by traders who buy and sell for their own accounts and by commercial interests . 
. 
But he noted that speculators apparently do n't believe there is much more of a decline in store for cocoa . 
, and its recent high was $ 1,368 , set in early August . 
But while further modest declines might be ahead , Mr. Hafer said it would be difficult to get through resistance levels just above yesterday 's high . 
. 
The agreement also calls for General Electric Pension , a unit of General Electric Co. , to receive as much as 10 % of Color Systems ' fully diluted common stock , depending on the proceeds from the sale of the AEI Film Library and its receivables . 
after Color Systems defaulted on the loan . 
But the troubles of SCI TV are a classic tale of the leveraged buy-out excesses of the 1980s , especially the asset-stripping game . 
after piling on debt -- though it did do that . 
-- though it did do that . 
But it has left holders of SCI TV 's junk bonds holding the bag , including some heavyweights that KKR might need to finance future deals , such as Kemper Financial Services , First Executive , Columbia Savings & Loan and Prudential Insurance Co. of America . 
And KKR 's majority partner in SCI TV 's buy-out , Nashville , Tenn. , entrepreneur George Gillett , also is said to be very unhappy . 
And KKR 's majority partner in SCI TV 's buy-out , Nashville , Tenn. , entrepreneur George Gillett , also is said to be very unhappy . 
, then later sold Storer 's cable operations at a fat profit . 
, then later sold Storer 's cable operations at a fat profit . 
-LRB- Storer also took $ 125 million of junior SCI TV bonds as partial payment for the TV assets . -RRB- 
So , while KKR today has an estimated $ 250 million sunk in now-shaky SCI TV , including equity and debt , the LBO firm still is $ 1 billion ahead on the SCI TV buy-out after taking cash up front . 
. 
after taking cash up front . 
Meanwhile , Mr. Gillett risks losing his entire equity investment of about $ 100 million in SCI TV if the company ca n't be restructured . 
if the company ca n't be restructured . 
Overall , Mr. Gillett 's holding company , Gillett Holdings , is heavily indebted and , except for its Vail Mountain resorts , is n't doing very well . 
, wiping out most of the company 's junk-holders and its stockholders . 
Meanwhile , SCI TV can barely pay its cash interest bill , and to stay out of bankruptcy court it must soon reschedule a lot of bank loans and junk bonds that have fallen due . 
, and to stay out of bankruptcy court it must soon reschedule a lot of bank loans and junk bonds that have fallen due . 
, but that 's not to say we like this particular offer , '' says Wilbur Ross of Rothschild Inc. , adviser to SCI TV junk-holders . 
But it 's understood that Mr. Kravis is disappointed that Mr. Gillett did n't manage to boost SCI TV 's operating profit after the buy-out . 
if lenders extend its debt payments until TV stations rise in value again , allowing SCI TV to sell assets to pay debt . 
until TV stations rise in value again , allowing SCI TV to sell assets to pay debt . 
But some militant SCI TV junk-holders say that 's not enough . 
But others say junk-holders have nothing to gain by putting SCI TV into bankruptcy-law proceedings . 
. 
when KKR restructured foundering Seaman Furniture , doubling KKR 's equity stake . 
But with Seaman , KKR was only trying to salvage its original investment , says bankruptcy investor James Rubin of Sass Lamle Rubin in New York . 
By contrast , KKR probably has already made all the money it can on SCI TV . 
And people who know Mr. Kravis say he is n't in a hurry to pour more money into SCI TV . 
Separately , the company 's board adopted a proposal to amend its 1986 shareholder rights plan , further insulating the company from takeover . 
, but the most significant was an amendment that provides that if any investor holds 25 % or more of Rubbermaid 's voting securities , each right held by others would entitle the holder to buy Rubbermaid shares with a market value of twice the right 's exercise price . 
. 
as UAL , parent of United Airlines , once again led shares into a breathtaking decline and then an afternoon comeback . 
And there is more volatility to come . 
. 
But at a critical moment , stock-index arbitrage traders showed their power and control . They scooped up hundreds of S&P futures when the market needed it most . 
when the market needed it most . 
. 
UAL finally opened for trading at 10:08 a.m. at 150 , down $ 28 . 
`` Then there was a big liquidation of stock '' across the board , he added . 
and program trades on the Big Board were routed into a special computer that scans for order imbalances . 
, but buyers can purchase futures . 
But as the fright began to spread through the S&P pit , the big brokerage firms came in and bought futures aggressively . 
. 
until the S&P futures hit the trading limit . 
Then they completed the other side of the trade by buying futures , which abruptly halted the stock market 's decline as traders began to buy stocks . 
as traders began to buy stocks . 
Then , in late-afternoon trading , hundred-thousand-share buy orders for UAL hit the market , including a 200,000-share order through Bear Stearns that seemed to spark UAL 's late price surge . 
Almost simultaneously , PaineWebber began a very visible buy program for dozens of stocks . 
, before closing at a slight loss . 
But traders who risk money handling big blocks of stock were shaken . 
But I think we are losing credibility because when the market does this , it does n't present itself as a rational investment . 
because when the market does this , it does n't present itself as a rational investment . 
. 
But if you overlook all this , it is a beautiful market for investment still . '' 
. '' 
, which separately reported a third-quarter loss of $ 1.86 a share compared with a year-ago profit . 
and Midway Airlines dropped 1\/4 to 14 7\/8 . 
Metals stocks also were especially weak , as concerns about the earnings outlook for cyclical companies weighed on the group . 
, as concerns about the earnings outlook for cyclical companies weighed on the group . 
and Cyprus Minerals skidded 2 to 26 3\/4 . 
, as it gained 1 3\/8 to 23 on two million shares . 
Stocks of California-based thrifts also were hard hit . 
and H.F. Ahmanson dipped 5\/8 to 21 1\/4 . 
after warning that its fourth-quarter results could be hurt by `` some fairly large international marketing expenses . '' 
after Bear Stearns added the stock to the firm 's buy list , citing recent price weakness . 
! 
. 
But junk bonds took more hits . 
as large institutional investors scrambled to buy long-term Treasury bonds on speculation that the stock market 's volatility would lead to a `` flight-to-quality '' rally . 
when nervous stock investors dump equities and buy Treasurys , which are higher in quality and thus considered safe . 
and thus considered safe . 
before it was too late , '' said Sung Won Sohn , chief economist at Norwest Corp. , Minneapolis . 
But the gains in Treasury bonds were pared as stocks staged a partial recovery . 
as stocks staged a partial recovery . 
Economists said the bond market 's strength also is a sign that investors expect the Federal Reserve to cut interest rates amid growing evidence that the economy is slowing . 
. 
Yesterday , for example , the Commerce Department reported that new orders for durable goods fell 0.1 % , while the nation 's auto makers reported lackluster mid-October sales . 
, while the nation 's auto makers reported lackluster mid-October sales . 
But high-yield , high-risk bonds fell 1\/4 to 1\/2 point with the stock market early in the session and never recovered . 
as dealers could n't find enough buyers to match sellers . 
, '' said Paul Suckow , director of fixed-income securities at Oppenheimer Management Corp . 
because they say the company 's ability to meet debt payments is dependent on too many variables , including the sale of assets and the need to mortgage property to retire some existing debt . 
Also , the TW offering includes interest-deferred and pay-in-kind securities , which are currently unpopular . 
Meanwhile , investors turned a cold shoulder to the Treasury 's sale of $ 10 billion of new two-year notes yesterday . 
, but they 're also worried about being whipsawed by the volatility in the stock market . '' 
, but they 're also worried about being whipsawed by the volatility in the stock market . '' 
Sluggish demand was also evidenced by the weak 2.41-to-1 bid-to-cover ratio , which was lower than the average 2.79-to-1 ratio at the last 12 similar auctions . 
because they were concerned that prices at the time of the auction might erode if the stock market staged a recovery , which , in fact , did happen . 
if the stock market staged a recovery , which , in fact , did happen . 
, which , in fact , did happen . 
, but today 's participation could be viewed as lighter-than-normal . '' 
However , Mr. Moran added that the Japanese generally have a positive view of the U.S. bond market because of expectations that the dollar will remain strong and interest rates will decline . 
and interest rates will decline . 
, while the rate on six-month Treasury bills was quoted at 7.47 % for a yield of 7.85 % . 
Thus , higher bidding narrows the investor 's return while lower bidding widens it . 
while lower bidding widens it . 
, and Xerox priced $ 150 million of six-year notes to yield 8.85 % . 
Meanwhile , International Business Machines Corp. paved the way for a visit to the credit markets by filing a shelf registration with the Securities and Exchange Commission for $ 800 million in new debt . 
Also , municipal bonds lured buying because the stock market remains wobbly , traders contended . 
because the stock market remains wobbly , traders contended . 
Mainly , though , it was a favorable outlook for yesterday 's new supply that propped up municipals , some traders said . 
as one new issue was priced and talk circulated about more offerings in the next day or two . 
and talk circulated about more offerings in the next day or two . 
, after touching an early high of 98 27\/32 ; 8 % securities were at 94 5\/32 , up 9\/32 ; 9 1\/2 % securities at 100 15\/32 , up 4\/32 ; and 10 % securities at 102 11\/32 , up 3\/32 . 
, as the spread above the Treasury 10-year note held at 1.46 percentage points . 
after the Dow Jones Industrial Average tumbled . 
, but interest and principal are paid in dollars . 
Prices of European government bonds also rose as U.S. stocks declined . 
as U.S. stocks declined . 
, while the 6 3\/4 % issue due July 1994 rose 0.05 to 97.70 to yield 7.33 % . 
, while the 12 % notes due 1995 rose 11\/32 to 104 2\/32 to yield 10.93 % . 
and that John R. Wolf , formerly executive vice president , sales and marketing , has been named president and chief executive officer . 
Later they said they fired him , and two directors attempted to place the company under bankruptcy-law protection . 
, and two directors attempted to place the company under bankruptcy-law protection . 
The Staar board also said that John R. Ford resigned as a director , and that Mr. Wolf was named a member of the board . 
, and that Mr. Wolf was named a member of the board . 
. '' 
He also reaffirmed East Germany 's allegiance to Communist orthodoxy . 
But as many as 12,000 people marched in East Berlin after the speech to protest his election . 
But the judge denied a request by the former national security adviser , who faces five criminal charges , to seek documents from Bush . 
The House , meanwhile , approved $ 2.85 billion to aid in the recovery from the temblor and from Hurricane Hugo as state legislators moved toward a temporary sales-tax increase . 
as state legislators moved toward a temporary sales-tax increase . 
, but the U.S. said it was n't satisfied that the incidents constituted terrorism . 
once Soviet conventional weapons are reduced in the East bloc . 
as the market reacted to an initial plunge by UAL shares , followed by a sharp rebound in the afternoon . 
, then eased slightly during the afternoon recovery . 
, after plunging $ 33 , to $ 145 . 
, but Ford 's move may derail the talks . 
as U.S. manufacturers paid the price for heavy incentives earlier in the year . 
as U.S. retail operations recorded the first loss in over five years . 
But the mouse experiment at a Medical Research Council laboratory in London shows genetic defects can be detected three days after conception using a new American-developed gene-copying technique . 
. 
, and its DNA extracted . 
For example , infertile couples who have the woman 's eggs fertilized in the test tube usually have several eggs fertilized at a time . When the fertilized cells divide to eight cells , a single cell from each embryo can be tested for genetic defects . A healthy embryo can be picked for implantation and defective ones discarded . 
. 
and defective ones discarded . 
Or in other couples , the embryo could be temporarily taken out and tested three days after conception and returned if healthy , or discarded if not . 
if healthy , or discarded if not . 
if not . 
It also could convert glucose from farm wastes into edible protein . 
, and most companies abandoned such research . 
But Phillips persisted , calling in scientists from the Salk Institute . 
But the yeast genetic apparatus is more like that of animals than the bacterial genetic apparatus . 
Thus , the proteins from the yeast are molecularly more like human proteins than those from bacteria . 
The oil company claims its yeast system also is better than bacteria at high-volume production of genetically engineered drugs . 
when subjected to an intense magnetic field . 
as blood passes a certain point in a vessel . 
when a strobe light is flashing -RRB- . 
as the beating heart raises and lowers the pressure of the flowing blood , a first for such tiny blood vessels , they report in Nature , a scientific journal . 
when the government terminated its contract with Meredith Relocation and sought other contracts to replace it . 
The department also said it seeks `` three times the government 's damages , which are presently undetermined , plus penalties . '' 
. 
'' because an investor ca n't be sure of his or her individual liability , Lloyd 's said . 
As a result , the insurance market plans new measures to restrict the ability of syndicate officials to leave years open . 
In addition , officials will have to get quotes for certain reinsurance contracts and obtain approvals from other syndicate directors . 
, but the results were reported after the market closed . 
after the market closed . 
, and many customers were holding off on purchase decisions until the takeover was completed . 
until the takeover was completed . 
So the inner-city burial ground is trying to resurrect itself with a television advertising campaign . 
Not all of the cemetery 's better-known tenants lend themselves to the promotional job at hand , however . 
For example , President James A. Garfield is entombed here , the victim of an assassination in 1881 . 
-LRB- Mr. Garrison notes , however , that the Garfield tomb is one of the nation 's premier examples of Romanesque architecture . -RRB- 
But there are plenty of other promising prospects at Lake View , promoters believe : Ernest Ball , for instance , who wrote `` When Irish Eyes are Smiling , '' and Garrett Morgan , the inventor of the gas mask and the tri-colored traffic light . 
while most of the London stock market looked like it had eaten the Evil Queen 's poisoned apple . 
Mr. Fried also is the managing partner of Albert Fried & Co . 
when restrictions on its shareholding are lifted . 
But with its stake in Jaguar , which it raised yesterday to 11.95 % , Ford could convene a special Jaguar shareholders ' meeting and urge holders to vote to drop the restriction sooner . 
But the specter of Ford eventually launching a full-fledged bid could unravel the GM-Jaguar talks . 
if -LCB- Jaguar executives -RCB- want to wait and see what the color of that -LCB- Ford bid -RCB- is '' first . 
, but he is believed to be willing to consider a specific bid proposal . 
And financially strapped Jaguar has spent over a year looking for a rich uncle to provide cash and technological know-how . 
because GM has promised it would keep Jaguar independent . 
Then , last Friday , Ford 's talks about a possible alliance with Saab-Scania AB of Sweden collapsed . 
, but it lacks Jaguar 's cachet . 
GM officials also see a lot of potential in marrying Jaguar 's cars to the technological know-how of Group Lotus PLC , a British engineering and specialty car maker GM bought in 1986 . 
after it emerged from bankruptcy-law proceedings 18 months ago . 
Sun Co. also reported higher earnings . 
Meanwhile , like many other oil companies hurt by less-profitable downstream businesses , Mobil Corp. , Shell Oil Co. and Chevron Corp. reported lower quarterly earnings . 
as it sold many of its marginal producing properties over the past 18 months . 
An increase in production at some major oil fields in the North Sea , which had been knocked out by an explosion in July 1988 , also aided results . 
Per-share earnings also shrank because of dividends on a new series of preferred stock . 
even as the price for that oil increased . 
Overseas exploration and production results also improved because of additional output from the North Sea Magnus Field , a portion of which was acquired by Sun earlier this year . 
Results declined , however , in Sun 's refining and marketing and coal businesses . 
, but margins in refining and marketing declined . 
Asarco also reported third-quarter net income rose 14 % , to $ 52.7 million , or $ 1.25 a share , from a restated $ 46.2 million , or $ 1.10 a share , a year earlier . 
, but that it would stop mining and selling coal at year end when existing sales contracts expire , regardless of the outcome of those talks . 
Otherwise , actual profit is compared with the 300-day estimate . 
Jr. , who then became the sole chief executive . 
, but his departure was `` nothing that we desired or worked for . '' 
The contract also provides for advanced billing and network management services . 
as it adds about 6,000 business locations over the next few years . 
, while imports rose to $ 6.81 billion from $ 5.33 billion . 
as demand for capital equipment and raw materials continues to push imports higher . 
, but a successor for him has n't been named yet . 
In addition , on Jan. 1 , Thomas A. Bennett , 52 , will become vice chairman and chief operating officer of Wachovia and Wachovia Bank & Trust , filling a vacancy left by the retired Hans W. Wanders in April . 
, while imports from the U.S. soared 26 % to $ 11.56 billion . 
while imports from there went up 17 % to $ 2.61 billion . 
The sector was still 8.8 % above its output levels from a year earlier , however . 
The sector was still 8.8 % above its output levels from a year earlier , however . 
while preserving healthy cells . 
. 
But several analysts and Japanese scientists familiar with the study , which was announced at a conference in Nagoya yesterday , expressed skepticism over the significance of the results . 
And the researchers themselves acknowledged they still must do much more work before they can say whether the treatment would actually cure humans . 
And the researchers themselves acknowledged they still must do much more work before they can say whether the treatment would actually cure humans . 
before they can say whether the treatment would actually cure humans . 
The antibody then kills the cell . 
Meanwhile , fewer than 10 % of the healthy cells were killed . 
The two said they must still do more laboratory tests , then experiment on animals . 
, then experiment on animals . 
But Takashi Kitamura , director of the biology department at Japan 's National Institute of Health and secretary of the government 's AIDS-research center , said , `` I 'm not so optimistic of its future use in therapeutic methods . '' 
and so would n't be killed even after exposure to the antibody . 
But he and Dr. Yonehara said there were still several uncertainties , particularly regarding possible side effects . 
But he and Dr. Yonehara said there were still several uncertainties , particularly regarding possible side effects . 
, but it can also kill other cells , '' said Dr. Yonehara . 
, but it can also kill other cells , '' said Dr. Yonehara . 
-- the government reports about 1,000 known carriers of the virus -- but many companies have poured substantial resources into research in recent years , hoping to cash in on a possible cure . 
, and that Japanese researchers in the past year have made available three possible cures to American researchers for clinical tests . 
. 
But Andrew Porter , a drug-industry analyst at Nikko Securities Co. in London , said if the product were to be successfully developed it would represent `` a potential threat to the long-term viability of Retrovir . 
. 
U.S. and 1,500,000 shares will be offered overseas , via Merrill Lynch Capital Markets -LRB- domestic -RRB- and Kidder , Peabody & Co . -LRB- international -RRB- . 
and 1,342,264 will be sold by holders , via Montgomery Securities and Donaldson , Lufkin & Jenrette Securities Corp . 
But British Airways withdrew from the UAL labor-management buy-out plan last Friday , after the group failed to get bank financing for its $ 6.79 billion buy-out . 
, after the group failed to get bank financing for its $ 6.79 billion buy-out . 
, but that the rest of the issue will be taken up by underwriters . 
, but it would have been unreasonable to expect a better result given the volatility of the stock market since the launch of the issue . '' 
But except for the embarrassment , British Air will emerge relatively unscathed from the flopped issue . 
And instead of buying the UAL stake , the U.K. carrier will be able to reduce its high debt level and build an acquisition war chest . 
For instance , British Air is continuing to negotiate with KLM Royal Dutch Airlines about each acquiring a 20 % stake in Sabena World Airlines , the air transport subsidiary of the Belgian national airline . 
The failed rights issue also should have a modest impact on British Air shares . 
after the company announced the rights issue in late September . 
And because British Air is issuing convertible bonds rather than ordinary shares , the share price wo n't be directly hurt by any surplus left with underwriters after they try to sell the issue in the open market . 
. 
after they try to sell the issue in the open market . 
But British Air 's withdrawal from the UAL buy-out could have further repercussions . 
. 
But so far , he declares , there 's little evidence the `` new urgency '' is trickling down to the managers who actually do hiring . 
Samuel Hall , Howard University 's placement director , also does n't see it . 
And he questions the White House dedication . 
But some of the activity , he says , may reflect a rush to get `` numbers in order '' for end-of-year reports . 
At most firms , though , it 's the immediate supervisor who decides the merit increases subordinates will be paid . 
, but line supervisors slice up the merit pie . 
, and then sanctioned by a salary review committee . 
U.S. when they give Americans more say . 
when their American employees get a voice in planning , product development and design , including decision-making back in Japan . 
In Japan , by contrast , companies tend to develop their own talent and promote from within . 
The Japanese also are accused of keeping their cards too close to their vests . 
But they think promotions are limited . 
since it 's been identified that many AIDS patients come from the inner city , '' she says . 
and now she has the help of only two doctors part time . 
Part of the problem , though , may reflect a general unwillingness to work with the urban poor . 
, even after a nurse contracted the virus while injecting an AIDS patient . 
while injecting an AIDS patient . 
And somebody loses on the expected repeal of Section 89 , the benefits test fought by most employers . 
if support for the Republicans continues to spread . 
while not British citizens . 
, '' said Jeff Rooker , a member of Parliament and one of several British politicians attending a London conference with government investigators from the U.S. , Canada and Australia . 
. 
Although Italy 's investigation of whether Olivetti had violated Western export-control rules had previously been made known , this marked the first time the unit and product were named . 
However , an Olivetti spokeswoman said OCN-PPL , of which Olivetti sold the majority interest last year , `` does n't make equipment that has the type of precision necessary for sophisticated productions . '' 
But the Japanese Fisheries Association criticized moves to ban the practice in international waters . 
Ltd. after further negotiations to settle a wage dispute broke down . 
, while the union was demanding 26.6 % . 
. 
and the union wanted 37.6 % . 
, the paper said ; the biggest was the theft of $ 235,000 from a bank in Chengdu in March 1988 . 
But security systems , effective management controls and regulations to govern their use have not kept pace , the People 's Daily said . 
, but it gave no more details . 
when photographing earthquake damage in San Francisco , the Japan Association of Travel Agents said . 
, and about two-thirds is attributed to other factors -LCB- primarily to greater speed -RCB- , '' according to NHTSA . 
, while fatalities on non-interstate roads were about the same in 1988 as in 1986 . 
In contrast , the fatality rate in the states that retained the 55 mph limit was 0.9 last year , the same as in 1986 . 
, So product names should match up , And firms that find they 're lagging behind Should now take steps to ketchup ! 
, And firms that find they 're lagging behind Should now take steps to ketchup ! 
Moreover , the Bank follows a prudent provisioning policy and has set aside $ 800 million against possible loan losses . 
Our traditional project loans have , for instance , supported sensible energy pricing in the power sector , sound interest-rate policies in the credit area and the operation of public utilities as efficient , autonomous agencies . 
Mr. Roberts also takes a swipe at the Bank 's adjustment lending . 
Rather , they reflect the Bank 's time-tested , pragmatic approach , which aims at ensuring that developing countries put their scarce resources to the best possible use . 
Mr. Ovalle also said Conasupo will cut back subsidies to producers of nonessential farm products and close retail outlets in wealthy neighborhoods . 
But most economists doubt the streamlining would cut deeply into Conasupo government subsidy , which largely goes to reduce consumer prices for corn and milk . 
U.S. until `` satisfactory sanitation-control measures are implemented in China to prevent '' bacterial contamination . 
after more than 100 people in Mississippi , New York and Pennsylvania became ill from eating tainted mushrooms . 
and is further investigating the underlying causes . 
, but rather we target and attack major drug-trafficking organizations that control a large segment of the drug market . 
, but rather we target and attack major drug-trafficking organizations that control a large segment of the drug market . 
, but also by providing a full range of services through various task forces and our contacts with local police squads handling drug-related crimes . 
In fact , we have agents assigned full time to assist the MPD in drug-related crimes such as homicide and other crimes of violence . 
, but Ramada will now reimburse New World for $ 10 million in expenses . 
when the sale closes . 
Shareholders will also receive one cent per share for the redemption of preferred stock purchase rights . 
and stock prices took the low road as worries mounted about the economy and the junk bond market . 
as worries mounted about the economy and the junk bond market . 
But long-term Treasury bonds staged a modest rally , with prices on most issues rising about half a point , or $ 5 for each $ 1,000 face amount . 
and thus stock prices , but it buoys bond prices as interest rates fall . 
, but it buoys bond prices as interest rates fall . 
as interest rates fall . 
, and that growth in the third quarter slowed to about 2.3 % from the second quarter 's 2.5 % . 
But A.C. Moore , director of research at Argus Research , said last week 's rally was a reflex reaction to the Oct. 13 stock market rout . 
as the economy weakens . 
, and the probability is that we 'll see negative economic growth in the fourth quarter . '' 
, but he said the real concern among stock investors is that some new problem will crop up in the junk bond market . 
. 
In addition , in any survey , there is always the chance that other factors such as question wording could introduce errors into the findings . 
'' because `` you will go to Detroit because you have to go to Detroit whether the fare is $ 175 , $ 275 or $ 375 . '' 
because you have to go to Detroit whether the fare is $ 175 , $ 275 or $ 375 . '' 
. 
. 
In addition , the group will create custom-designed media such as cookbooks , newspaper inserts and videos for ad campaigns . 
, but he would n't disclose their names . 
, '' he said . 
, but for now they are the quickest offering the most extensive plan , '' he said . 
`` But the marketplace changed . 
When Buying a Small Firm '' was excellent . 
And most of these are absolutely unnecessary . 
, but when reviewing those traps one sees just about all of them could have been avoided . 
. 
before buying a business . 
and they are on their way . 
as Reebok , which grew rapidly in the mid-1980s but has seen its sales flatten of late , is seeking to regain momentum in the athletic-shoe business against rivals Nike Inc. and L.A. Gear Inc . 
. '' 
before joining Reebok in September 1988 , left in August to pursue other interests . 
But even a raft of recent failures is n't stopping them from launching new publications . 
But they are also talking about new magazines . 
But they are also talking about new magazines . 
And Time Warner Inc. is developing a spinoff of Time magazine aimed at kids , on the heels of its successful Sports Illustrated for Kids . 
And despite the recent tough advertising climate , industry figures released at the meeting here indicate things may be turning around . 
. 
. 
, and Lang Communications has announced Ms. magazine , after 17 years , will no longer carry advertising as of January . 
Meanwhile , American Health Partners , publisher of American Health magazine , is deep in debt , and Owen Lipstein , founder and managing partner , is being forced to sell the magazine to Reader 's Digest Association Inc . 
, and Owen Lipstein , founder and managing partner , is being forced to sell the magazine to Reader 's Digest Association Inc . 
There are also indications that the number of magazine entrepreneurs , traditionally depended upon to break new ground with potentially risky start-ups , are dwindling . 
Some entrepreneurs are still active , though . 
, but they are magazines whose editorial quality needs to be improved . 
, but an executive of LJN Toys Ltd. , the MCA unit , said the closely held Buddy L had annual sales in excess of $ 20 million . 
And federal insurance protected the bank 's 631,163 depositors . 
and there was a brief rescue attempt , with political undertones , including $ 1.77 billion in Federal Reserve loans . 
after being convicted of fraud and perjury . 
, reportedly after drinking cyanide-laced coffee in an Italian prison . 
four days after he was sentenced to life in prison for ordering a 1979 murder . 
and , ultimately , manipulated . 
as subjects with hand-held computers register their second-by-second reactions to a speaker 's remarks . 
-- and how they can be reshaped . 
And it helped win defense verdicts in product-liability suits involving scores of products , ranging from Firestone 500 tires to the anti-nausea drug Bendectin . 
Largely as a result , Litigation Sciences has more than doubled in size in the past two years . 
Meanwhile , competitors are being spawned almost daily ; some 300 new businesses -- many just one-person shops -- have sprung up . 
, but some court observers question why they should n't be encouraged to do so rather than be programmed not to . 
But the effort is also being made to try and cause jurors not to decide things rationally . 
But the effort is also being made to try and cause jurors not to decide things rationally . 
But Mr. Zoeller also acknowledges that consultants can be very effective . 
But Mr. Zoeller also acknowledges that consultants can be very effective . 
, '' he says . 
, and everybody in between is at a disadvantage , and that 's not the kind of system we want , '' says Amitai Etzioni , a prominent sociologist who teaches at George Washington University . 
, and that 's not the kind of system we want , '' says Amitai Etzioni , a prominent sociologist who teaches at George Washington University . 
before finding its more lucrative calling in big commercial cases . 
The defense also learned that college-educated people were uncharacteristically conservative about the Vietnam War . 
Ultimately , that carefully picked jury deadlocked with a 10-2 vote to acquit , and the prosecution decided not to retry the case . 
, and the prosecution decided not to retry the case . 
. 
He then briefed Messrs. Boies and Barr , who had the chance to tilt their next day 's presentation accordingly . 
He then briefed Messrs. Boies and Barr , who had the chance to tilt their next day 's presentation accordingly . 
Thus , the `` shadow '' jury was born . 
when you give an opening argument to your wife or a friend and get some response to it . 
, but it 's better than consulting an Indian rain dancer . '' 
And to the uninitiated , some of the firm 's approaches may seem chillingly manipulative . 
Instead , Mr. Vinson says , interviews with thousands of jurors reveal that they start with firmly entrenched attitudes and try to shoe-horn the facts of the case to fit their views . 
. 
. -RRB- 
Such people also typically hold negative attitudes toward the physically handicapped , the poor , blacks and women . 
. 
But any lawyer will select the facts and the strategy to employ . 
and help shape the lawyers ' presentation accordingly . 
when she slipped in a pool , but the fall did n't explain why one of her arms was discolored bluish . 
, but the fall did n't explain why one of her arms was discolored bluish . 
Slick graphics , pre-tested for effectiveness , also play a major role in Litigation Sciences ' operation . 
if they receive it visually . 
, but they insist that the best trial lawyers have always employed similar tactics . 
, but they did it , '' says Stephen Gillers , a legal ethics expert at New York University law school . 
as long as no one tampers with the evidence . 
and later read more informative interviews with the same jurors in The American Lawyer magazine . 
But most lawyers accept that the marketplace has spoken . 
And the question remains whether the jury system can maintain its integrity while undergoing such a skillful massage . 
while undergoing such a skillful massage . 
`` But the last thing you want to do is manipulate the subconscious to make them think better . What you then do is you make them think inappropriately . '' 
What you then do is you make them think inappropriately . '' 
Mr. Etzioni also suggests forbidding anyone from gathering background information about the jurors . 
, and researchers can drive by houses , look up credit ratings , and even question neighbors . -RRB- 
Furthermore , he says , psychologists should not be allowed to analyze jurors ' personalities . 
, and I do n't think courts should lend themselves to that , '' Mr. Boies says . 
Silicon Graphics , on the other hand , has targeted a specific niche since its inception in 1982 , which has been dubbed by some as `` motion-picture computing . '' 
. 
In addition , the company has made it tough on competitors by offering a stream of desktop computers at sharply lower prices . 
Silicon Graphics also plans to unveil even less expensive machines in the near future . 
But even though by some estimates it might cost the world as much as $ 100 billion between now and the year 2000 to convert to other coolants , foaming agents and solvents and to redesign equipment for these less efficient substitutes , the Montreal Protocol 's legions of supporters say it is worth it . 
. 
Hence , as they see it , if something is n't done earthlings will become ever more subject to sunburn and skin cancer . 
. 
But the nature of the problem is such that many others feel it has to be addressed soon , before all the evidence is in . 
, before all the evidence is in . 
But does it have to be so soon ? 
. 
Moreover , there are questions , particularly among atmospheric scientists who know this subject best , about the ability of anyone to know what in fact is happening to the ozone layer . 
. 
But ozone creation is a very large-scale natural process and the importance of human-generated CFCs in reducing it is largely a matter of conjecture . 
and the importance of human-generated CFCs in reducing it is largely a matter of conjecture . 
and thus very hard to measure . 
But it is at least worthy of some note that there are very few refrigerators in Antarctica . 
Moreover , surely someone has noticed that household refrigerators are closed systems , running for many years without either the CFC gas or the insulation ever escaping . 
? 
but none , so far , match the nonflammable , nontoxic CFCs . 
Butane and propane can be used as coolants , for example , but are flammable . 
Moreover , new lubricants will be needed to protect compressors from the new formulations , which , as with CFCs , are solvents . 
and that will worsen the greenhouse effect . 
and that will worsen the greenhouse effect . 
when they needed it , but let 's not be flippant about grave risks . 
, but let 's not be flippant about grave risks . 
and are trying instead to cash in on them , although they never care to put it quite that way . 
, although they never care to put it quite that way . 
Imperial Chemical Industries of the U.K. also has one , and is building a plant in Louisiana to produce it . 
when price decontrol destroyed the energy crisis and thus the demand for `` alternative energy . '' 
and thus the demand for `` alternative energy . '' 
In other words , environmentalism has created a whole set of vested interests that fare better when there are many problems than when there are few . 
when there are many problems than when there are few . 
when there are many problems than when there are few . 
'' even when some of the most knowledgeable scientists are skeptical about the seriousness of the threats and the insistence of urgency . 
. 
But if there is no impending threat , it can get to be very expensive . 
. 
, '' concludes Don L. Robinson , associate director of the National Federation of Independent Business , the largest small-business organization . 
, but measures in 19 other states were defeated . 
-- but small-business lobbyists won an exclusion for tiny concerns and a lower training rate . 
, and Iowa and Tennessee amended laws to require that employers pay for breast-cancer exams . 
But small business , which generally detests government-mandated benefits , has taken note of the growing number of close votes . 
before the tide turns , '' says one Midwestern lobbyist . 
Consequently , small business is taking more `` pro-active '' steps to counter mandated leaves . 
They also support a tax credit for employers to offset the cost of hiring and training workers who temporarily replace employees on parental leave . 
But in Washington state , small business generally opposes an initiative to boost spending on children 's programs by $ 360 million , fearing the state 's 7.8 % sales tax will be raised to finance the outlays . 
as they alter stationery , among other things , and notify customers . 
But many owners plan to practice frugality -- crossing out the old code and writing in the new one until their stock runs out . 
until their stock runs out . 
For instance , franchisers no longer must pre-register sales to aspiring franchisees who qualify as `` sophisticated purchasers . '' 
But critics consider the changes regressive . 
-- and he says negotiated sales that are n't pre-registered have been legal all along . 
if a customer trips or otherwise gets hurt on the way to the restroom ... . 
In other words , it was a better-than-average Manhattan commute . 
But in spite of a wind-driven rainstorm , gridlock never materialized , mainly because the Bay Area Rapid Transit subway system carried 50 % more passengers than normal . 
, mainly because the Bay Area Rapid Transit subway system carried 50 % more passengers than normal . 
Moreover , the two main bridges still connecting San Francisco with the East Bay did n't charge tolls , allowing traffic to zip through without stopping . 
Officials also suspect that traffic benefited from steps by major employers to get workers to come in at odd hours , or that many workers are still staying at home . 
, or that many workers are still staying at home . 
, and many commuters had to find rides to BART 's stations , because parking lots were full before dawn . 
, because parking lots were full before dawn . 
But while traffic was heavy early in the commute over the Golden Gate , by 8 a.m. it already had thinned out . 
. 
However , a spokeswoman for BankAmerica Corp. said yesterday 's absenteeism at the bank holding company was no greater than on an average day . 
, because some of the telephone company 's employees must be on-site during normal business hours , a spokeswoman says . 
But transportation officials worry that such extraordinary measures and cooperation may not last . 
Although one transportation official said drivers who did n't use car pools were committing `` an anti-social act , '' about two-thirds of the motorists crossing the Golden Gate were alone , compared with the normal 70 % rate . 
And some commuters , relieved by the absence of gridlock , were planning to return to their old ways . 
Then he unleashed his own , unstoppable , attack . 
And in the second game , with Mr. Kasparov advancing ferociously as white , D.T. offered feeble resistance and lost even faster . 
. 
And when Mr. Kasparov strode into the playing hall , he called the outcome . 
. 
. '' 
D.T. also has a prodigious and flawless memory , is utterly fearless , and could n't be distracted by the sexy nude sculptures spread around the playing hall , in the New York Academy of Art . 
In fact , D.T. never left home , Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh , but communicated with its human handlers by telephone link . 
, but they put their hope in D.T. 's recently enhanced capacity for examining positions -- up to a million per second , from 720,000 . 
But the handlers mistakenly stuck with silicon chips ; they needed kryptonite . 
as game one , a Sicilian Defense by Mr. Kasparov , proceeded . 
, but Mr. Kasparov , using his ineffably powerful brain , consistently found very good ones . 
But the computer did n't play Mr. Short 's ninth move , a key pawn thrust , and its position deteriorated rapidly . 
, and its position deteriorated rapidly . 
; then it put a knight offside on move 16 . 
, but in this case Mr. Kasparov was left with a very dangerous knight and D.T. 's surviving bishop was reduced to passivity . 
and D.T. 's surviving bishop was reduced to passivity . 
Indeed , it looked more like a pawn , a `` tall pawn , '' as spectators snidely put it . 
. 
as soon as humans would have -- prompting more derision . 
. 
He also launched a kingside storm , sacrificing a pawn to denude D.T. 's king . 
-- and it immediately blundered by moving a queenside pawn , to the neglect of kingside development . 
`` In a new position just after the opening , a computer will have serious problems , '' Mr. Kasparov said later . 
, and the computer is n't able to do that right now . '' 
And when a defensive move was called for , D.T. passed up an obvious pawn move and instead exposed its queen to immediate tactical threats . 
. 
and instead exposed its queen to immediate tactical threats . 
Mr. Kasparov remarked later that `` even a weak club player '' would have avoided the queen move . 
but , in the end , just as deadly . 
And Mr. Kasparov , to cheers and applause , marched back into the analysis room . 
Indeed , three of them will be building a successor machine for International Business Machines Corp . 
-- especially if you do n't understand what you 're investing in . 
, and 10-year Treasury notes were paying less than 8 % . 
But nearly 3 1\/2 years later , Merrill says the investment is worth about $ 43,000 -- an amount that represents an annual return of just over 2 % on Dr. Blumenfeld 's $ 40,000 . 
Instead , his Merrill broker put him in a zero-coupon CD , which is sold at a deep discount to its face value . 
. 
when it was issued in 1984 , and interest rates in general had declined sharply since then , part of the price Dr. Blumenfeld paid was a premium -- an additional amount on top of the CD 's base value plus accrued interest that represented the CD 's increased market value . 
, and interest rates in general had declined sharply since then , part of the price Dr. Blumenfeld paid was a premium -- an additional amount on top of the CD 's base value plus accrued interest that represented the CD 's increased market value . 
, and Dr. Blumenfeld has learned to his surprise that the premium is n't insured under federal deposit insurance . 
when he opened a recent Merrill Lynch statement and found that the CD 's `` estimated current market value '' had plummeted by $ 9,000 in a month . 
when he bought the CD , and that the amount was n't insured . 
, and that the amount was n't insured . 
and that he had previously invested in TIGRs -LRB- Treasury Income Growth Receipts -RRB- , a type of zero-coupon Treasury security sold by Merrill Lynch . 
But he says he did n't understand he was buying the CD on the secondary market , and he contends his broker never fully explained the risks . 
, and he contends his broker never fully explained the risks . 
... . 
and you should discuss any questions you may have with your financial consultant . '' 
Nevertheless , Merrill Lynch has agreed that if the thrift that issued Dr. Blumenfeld 's CD , Peoples Heritage Federal Savings & Loan Association in Salina , Kan. , is liquidated and the CD terminated , the brokerage firm would cover the premium Dr. Blumenfeld paid . 
. 
and the CD terminated , the brokerage firm would cover the premium Dr. Blumenfeld paid . 
, although it says the firm has received only one other complaint about premiums on the secondary market in three years . 
, and those purchased on the secondary market are an even smaller part of the total . 
Still , there are several billion dollars of zero-coupon CDs with various maturities outstanding . 
, although interest is n't actually paid until maturity -- zero-coupon CDs are usually sold for tax-advantaged accounts to finance things like retirement and children 's education . 
, and they usually double in value by maturity . 
But investors who bought zero-coupon CDs in the secondary market are n't the only ones who may be surprised to learn the full amount of their investments is n't insured . 
People who paid a premium for standard CDs purchased on the secondary market could also find that those premiums are n't insured if the institutions that issued the CDs failed . 
if the institutions that issued the CDs failed . 
However , those premiums are usually far smaller than on zero-coupon CDs , and the simpler pricing structure of a standard CD makes it more apparent when a premium is paid . 
, and the simpler pricing structure of a standard CD makes it more apparent when a premium is paid . 
when a premium is paid . 
, unless the bank or thrift that issued the CD is closed and its deposits paid off before maturity or transferred to another institution at a lower rate . 
and its deposits paid off before maturity or transferred to another institution at a lower rate . 
And he says he 's learned a lesson : `` You always have to watch out for yourself . 
, but young professionals from Australia to West Germany are rushing to buy premium-brand American vodka , brandy and other spirits . 
In particular , many are snubbing the scotch preferred by their parents and opting for bourbon , the sweet firewater from the Kentucky countryside . 
And those efforts are paying off : Spirits exports jumped more than 2 1\/2 times to $ 157.2 million in 1988 from $ 59.8 million in 1983 , according to the Distilled Spirits Council of the U.S. , a trade group . 
. 
In recent years , for example , Grand Metropolitan PLC of Britain acquired Heublein Inc. , while another British company , Guinness PLC , took over United Distillers Group and Schenley Industries Inc . 
Inc. , while another British company , Guinness PLC , took over United Distillers Group and Schenley Industries Inc . 
But the shift has also been fueled by necessity . 
But the shift has also been fueled by necessity . 
. 
The biggest foreign inroads , though , have been made by bourbon . 
. 
, though Jack Daniel 's Tennessee whiskey often is counted as bourbon because of similarity of taste . -RRB- 
Moreover , just as vodka has acquired an upscale image in the U.S. , bourbon has become fashionable in many foreign countries , a uniquely American product tied to frontier folklore . 
. 
, but it represented 57 % of U.S. liquor exports last year , according to Jobson ; no other category had more than 19 % . 
Jim Beam print ads , however , strike different chords in different countries . 
Demand for ads also rose at the eight TV stations Capital Cities owns and at its 80%-owned ESPN sports cable channel . 
The parent also publishes weeklies , shopping guides and specialty magazines . 
and it would particularly have a favorable impact upon our budget deficit , '' Mr. Kemp said . 
But for the most part , officials have avoided expressing those views in public , fearing they would unnecessarily antagonize the Fed . 
, but domestic franchisees apparently did n't partake of the improvement . 
But sales for U.S. franchisees were flat at best on a per-store basis despite weak 1988 figures . 
. 
. 
, thus aiding promotional efforts . 
, although she doubted `` that kind of performance is sustainable . '' 
, boosted by promotional programs and new products -- although weaker foreign currencies reduced the company 's earnings . 
, while the opposite was true for domestic expansion . 
, but Carnival will likely have to pay a higher price for them . '' 
, which begins Dec. 1 . 
If the ships are n't delivered , however , it will likely have an effect on the company 's earnings as soon as the 1990 fiscal year , which begins Dec. 1 . 
. 
as it reaches various stages of construction . 
Carnival , for example , has already paid about $ 160 million of the total cost for Fantasy . 
if the situation warrants it . 
after the shipyard 's contractors had started to demand bank guarantees . 
because Jerell began withholding her royalty payments last month . 
mainly because truck-parts sales did n't rebound in September from the summer doldrums as they usually do , said Patrick E. Sheridan , analyst with McDonald & Co . 
, but operating profit for vehicle parts as a group fell 26 % to $ 51 million on an about 1 % drop in sales to $ 488 million . 
until they see how the economy behaves . 
, he said , and the latest reports show a slight improvement rather than any indication of a downward spiral . 
, while those unfit even for industry use nearly doubled . 
and penalties are paid by the government ; and -LRB- c -RRB- the continuing Stalinist emphasis on heavy industry for economic development , producing a far heavier and more wasteful use of energy and natural resources than in the West . 
; and -LRB- c -RRB- the continuing Stalinist emphasis on heavy industry for economic development , producing a far heavier and more wasteful use of energy and natural resources than in the West . 
if a business makes the wrong decisions . 
But their most fundamental recommendation was to separate industry from the state , making it fully accountable for pollution control . 
Indeed , skepticism was amply captured by a joke told by Poles at the conference : `` The world must be coming to an end . 
And the Poles are engaged in commerce . '' 
But the implications of such a shift to market approaches go well beyond the fact that Poland is already working on nationwide emissions trades to reduce smelter pollution , or that the Soviets plan to introduce marketable pollution permits in some republics next year . 
, or that the Soviets plan to introduce marketable pollution permits in some republics next year . 
that would otherwise purchase state industries . 
But it could also accelerate `` marketization '' by reinforcing industrial accountability , breaking up state monopolies , giving managers a stake in solutions , and ensuring that modernization is not reversible for failure to address environmental effects . 
But it could also accelerate `` marketization '' by reinforcing industrial accountability , breaking up state monopolies , giving managers a stake in solutions , and ensuring that modernization is not reversible for failure to address environmental effects . 
It also means use of quantity-based pollution limits such as transferable permits , rather than price-based limits such as effluent fees . 
because quota-trained managers will likely respond better to quantity than to price signals . 
. 
For once information flows , public participation follows and repression becomes difficult to reimpose . 
. 
and repression becomes difficult to reimpose . 
, while Poland represents the opposite . 
if even the East Bloc steps to a different drummer . 
But the continuing pressures for free-market economics suggest the conference 's vision was not all fantasy . 
The nervousness about the technology stock outlook also hurt the Dow Jones Industrial Average , which slipped about 1 % . 
But Charlie Howley , vice president in charge of OTC trading at SoundView Financial in Stamford , Conn. , said the selling was orderly . 
But some of it also represented profit-taking by investors who have made big gains in some issues . 
But some of it also represented profit-taking by investors who have made big gains in some issues . 
, traders said , as it declined 2 1\/8 to 83 1\/8 . 
after SIBV-MS Holdings said the price to be paid to Jefferson Smurfit 's minority holders has been raised to $ 43 a share . 
, some analysts say , because many small growth stocks are traded there . 
, while retailing issue Office Club was unchanged at 10 3\/4 on 65,200 shares . 
Other favorites of growth-stock analysts and money managers also had a mixed session . 
, and Mail Boxes Etc. , a private postal services company , advanced 1\/2 to 23 1\/2 on volume of 64,000 . 
But Legent , a systems software stock , was down 1\/2 to 29 3\/4 on 39,300 shares . 
, and CVB Financial jumped 4 to 41 on only 1,000 shares . 
, because we do . 
And the reason we do n't want to is that effective education would require us to relinquish some cherished metaphysical beliefs about human nature in general and the human nature of young people in particular , as well as to violate some cherished vested interests . 
. '' 
But what do we mean , specifically , by `` creativity '' ? 
, and they have enough common sense to know what that demands . 
, but one simple reason ought not to be underestimated . 
It also provides teachers with a superior self-definition as a `` profession , '' since they will have passed courses in educational psychology and educational philosophy . 
, '' since they will have passed courses in educational psychology and educational philosophy . 
But it is unfair to dump on teachers , as distinct from the educational establishment . 
and , on the whole , they are seriously committed to conscientious teaching . 
But they need not be to do their jobs well . 
But our education proceeded at the hands of those others , who were merely competent and conscientious . 
. 
. 
if only they got a few thousand dollars a year more . 
It is also the kind of libel politicians find useful , since it helps them strike a friendly posture on behalf of an important constituency . 
, since it helps them strike a friendly posture on behalf of an important constituency . 
But there is not one shred of evidence that , other things being equal , salary differentials result in educational differentials . 
. 
. 
, and they are all sending us the same message . 
Conversely , there are the majority of unsuccessful schools , and we know which efforts at educational reform are doomed beforehand . 
, and we know which efforts at educational reform are doomed beforehand . 
, if only we could assimilate this knowledge into our thinking . 
if our political leaders were mute , rather than eloquently `` concerned . '' 
, since this is the least controversial option that is open to them . 
Thus at the recent governors ' conference on education , Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas announced that `` this country needs a comprehensive child-development policy for children under five . '' 
, but afterward the difference is quickly washed away . 
, but afterward the difference is quickly washed away . 
. 
, even as Chicago and other cities are moving to institute it . 
-- though they may sometimes be desirable for other reasons . 
. 
as their academic potential allows . 
-LRB- though that is clearly desirable -RRB- than to ensure that the less gifted get the necessary grounding for further study or for entering the modern world of work . 
-- though , in view of all the feathers that are ruffled by this fact , it is not surprising that one hears so little about it . 
when computerizing their operations : Most machines ca n't talk to each other . 
The aim , ultimately , is to increase the flow of information into a manufacturer 's main computer network for use in business planning , marketing and other operations . 
But many manufacturers find that communication between different computers has been rendered nearly impossible by the babel of computer languages used by different machines , including robots and machine tools . 
IBM 's announcement , which was expected and will formally be made to customers today , also marks an attempt to gain credibility on the plant floor , where Digital Equipment Corp. has long dominated and where Hewlett-Packard Co. has recently gained market share . 
and where Hewlett-Packard Co. has recently gained market share . 
, even though the specific products IBM unveiled will generally be available by the end of the first quarter . 
IBM 's push is also unusual in its approach to marketing . 
IBM 's manufacturing staff also will be able to provide software that IBM has developed internally and will be able to form teams with a customer to jointly solve manufacturing problems . 
, but it could also help customers on software to deal with such things as changes in engineering documents . 
, but it could also help customers on software to deal with such things as changes in engineering documents . 
, but we have most , '' said George Conrades , IBM 's top marketing official . 
Figures for the period ended Sept. 30 for the four largest brokerage firms -- Nomura Securities Co. , Daiwa Securities Co. , Yamaichi Securities Co. and Nikko Securities -- also reflected a changeover to a fiscal year ending March 31 , replacing the 12-month term formerly finishing Sept. 30 . 
As a result , brokerage house officials said , appropriate comparisons from the same period a year earlier were unavailable . 
Operating profit , pretax profit and net income results , however , were provided for the immediately preceding six-month period . 
Net income , however , rose 3.7 % to 107.87 billion yen from 103.98 billion yen . 
Corp. if the two companies do n't have an agreement to merge by Dec. 15 . 
Harken also said that its financing from Bankers Trust Co. has been extended until Dec. 15 to give Tesoro 's board time to consider the offer at a Tesoro board meeting scheduled for mid-November . 
because it would fill a gap in its business . 
However , Tesoro , based in Houston , already has rejected a suitor in the past year . 
National Environmental also said it will move its headquarters from Hingham to Folcroft , Pa. , the site of its sludge dewatering facility . 
Eagle also said it received a commitment for as much as $ 8 million in financing from Norfolk Capital Group Inc . 
In addition , a Norfolk affiliate , York Capital Inc. , will purchase all of the interests of Eagle 's secured lenders , which total $ 11.5 million , and guarantee as much as $ 8.2 million in payments to Eagle 's unsecured creditors . 
and Biny 's management took control of the company . 
But Eagle said the financing was insufficient and sales during the past fiscal year sagged . 
and sales during the past fiscal year sagged . 
while it works out a plan to pay debts . 
. 
, they must also reduce liabilities , such as deposits . 
. 
James Barth , an economist with the Office of Thrift Supervision , also attributed some of the outflow to seasonal factors . 
, and deposit outflows totaled $ 3.9 billion . 
and withdrawals exceeded deposits by $ 1.2 billion . 
, as the industry continues to shrink . 
, unless we see big changes in rates , '' Mr. Ely said . 
. 
: It may lower the sense of urgency behind efforts to enact tax incentives and other measures to increase the rate of growth in productivity and real GNP . 
It would also affect the perceptions of the board of governors of the Federal Reserve System , and the informed public generally , as to what constitutes a reasonable degree of price stability . 
There has indeed been more than a one percentage point improvement in productivity growth since 1981 . 
But I had expected more , which is one reason I began looking at evidence suggesting defects in the official output estimates . 
, but all I am claiming is that the growth trend is understated . 
-LRB- It is , however , possible , that further study will reveal increasing bias . -RRB- 
. 
. 
Finally , the official estimates understate growth because they make inadequate allowance for improvements in quality of goods and services . 
because they make inadequate allowance for improvements in quality of goods and services . 
, and that resulted in a significantly larger increase in real outlays for durable goods than the earlier estimates had showed . 
In sum , the biases ennumerated above indicate a 0.7 percentage point understatement in growth of total real GNP . 
In other words , the growth rates of both total GNP and real private business product per labor hour have been underestimated by about 20 % . 
But the company 's latest quarter was a few pennies a share lower than the more pessimistic projections on Wall Street . 
, but it does show weakness '' in some of the company 's chief markets , said George Krug , a chemicals-industry analyst at Oppenheimer & Co . 
as buyers continued to trim inventories . 
Prices also fell for ethylene oxide and glycols , products used in making antifreeze . 
, before accounting for taxes and interest expense . 
Operating profit from carbon products , such as graphite electrodes , also declined , to $ 6 million from $ 20 million . 
, and urethane polyols are used in making the polyurethane foam found in furniture cushioning and other products . 
, and some might instead try to revoke the firm 's license to sell securities within their borders . 
, and some might instead try to revoke the firm 's license to sell securities within their borders . 
But individuals familiar with the generally successful Drexel talks say the firm is meeting resistance from some big states , including New Jersey , New York , California , Pennsylvania , Connecticut and Missouri . 
, but nonetheless have refused to settle so far , say those familiar with the discussions . 
, and even if some are , its securities business would n't be directly hurt . 
. 
Still , if nothing else , a revoked brokerage license could be a burden because it must be disclosed in many of the transactions in which Drexel could be involved . 
because it must be disclosed in many of the transactions in which Drexel could be involved . 
because it must be disclosed in many of the transactions in which Drexel could be involved . 
But they disagree about the message these settlements give to the public . 
, or `` whether you should -LRB- simply -RRB- revoke the license when someone is convicted of a felony . '' 
when someone is convicted of a felony . '' 
. 
Similarly , Alfred Rubega , New Hampshire 's director of securities regulation , said his state had n't received any complaints about Drexel , so it really could n't press the issue . Still , `` I understand the reasons '' that other states are holding out , he said . 
, so it really could n't press the issue . 
Still , `` I understand the reasons '' that other states are holding out , he said . 
and that Drexel still expects to pay out a total of $ 11.5 million . 
or who do n't appear opposed to settling . 
New Jersey , for example , was asked to accept $ 300,000 , but refused . 
The state can also bar Drexel as an investment adviser . 
, but James McLelland Smith , state securities chief , said : `` We really are still looking at it and have informed -LRB- Drexel -RRB- that the proposal is really not sufficient for settlement . '' 
, and officials in the two states wo n't discuss their reasons for not doing so . 
But Drexel has made it clear it could mount a significant legal battle in each state if its license is revoked , according to state officials . 
if its license is revoked , according to state officials . 
Still , she said , Drexel 's trouble with some states is n't a bad thing . 
so they do n't do this again . '' 
Separately , Warner reported a net loss of $ 106 million , or 56 cents a share , including merger expenses of $ 100 million and $ 120 million in charges associated with stock-appreciation-based compensation plans . 
and I say , these businesses are doing well , '' said Mark Manson , a vice president of Donaldson , Lufkin & Jenrette Securities Corp . 
`` For example , Warner made more than $ 100 million from filmed entertainment in three months . 
Warner also had a gain of more than 13 % from records and music publishing , even though the domestic record business was sluggish this summer . '' 
, even though the domestic record business was sluggish this summer . '' 
`` Lethal Weapon II '' was also a big hit . 
Warner also contributed record results from its music business , where unit sales of compact discs rose more than 50 % from a year ago , the company said , helped by Prince 's `` Batman '' soundtrack . 
In addition , the 1988 results included a $ 20 million charge reflecting a reserve for relocation related expenses at American Television & Communications Corp . 
On the other hand , Time Warner said its operating cash flow declined in the quarter for its magazine division , its books division and the Home Box Office programming division . 
because the year-ago quarter included a $ 12 million dividend from Turner Broadcasting System and because the quarter includes expenses associated with the Nov. 15 launch of HBO 's Comedy Channel . 
and because the quarter includes expenses associated with the Nov. 15 launch of HBO 's Comedy Channel . 
because the year-ago quarter included a $ 12 million dividend from Turner Broadcasting System and because the quarter includes expenses associated with the Nov. 15 launch of HBO 's Comedy Channel . 
, while Warner closed at $ 63.875 a share , up 12.5 cents . 
, and that a security clearance was under way . 
, and the White House said the congressmen 's letter is under review . 
Valley National , for example , had $ 470 million in problem assets as of June . 
and we encourage you to give them your thorough consideration before making this key RTC appointment , '' the letter said . 
before making this key RTC appointment , '' the letter said . 
But Mr. Simmons has long ties to both Republicans and banking . 
, and also worked for Mr. Bush in the 1980 election . 
In 1986 , Mr. Simmons also served on a committee of businessmen headed by William Seidman , chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and the Resolution Trust Corp . 
Sovran also named John B. Werner a vice chairman of the parent company and the unit and elected him to the newly created position of chief credit officer of Sovran Financial , increasing the number of corporate board members to 35 . 
Moody 's also said it raised its rating on the Deposit Insurance Bridge Bank , now known as Bank One , Texas N.A. , reflecting the support of other banking affiliates and substantial assistance for the FDIC . 
when premiums exceed claims , but they are liable to their last pound or dollar in the event of a catastrophe . 
, but they are liable to their last pound or dollar in the event of a catastrophe . 
And catastrophes are getting ever more costly . 
Lloyd 's claims for the 1988 Piper Alpha oil-rig disaster in the North Sea , for instance , may reach $ 1 billion . 
-- and even then I do n't know if it will be enough , '' she says . 
-- and even then I do n't know if it will be enough , '' she says . 
-- and even then I do n't know if it will be enough , '' she says . 
, and at the moment the upside is very marginal . '' 
. 
Meanwhile , competition from rivals unencumbered by history is intensifying . 
and it monitored commerce through a unrivaled intelligence network in ports around the globe . 
if life insurance is included . -RRB- 
. 
Only 10 years ago , for instance , Lloyd 's was the pre-eminent insurer of thoroughbred horses . But since 1981 , Kirk Horse Insurance Inc. of Lexington , Ky. has grabbed a 20 % stake of the market . 
But since 1981 , Kirk Horse Insurance Inc. of Lexington , Ky. has grabbed a 20 % stake of the market . 
because its structure does n't allow underwriters to deal directly with clients ; brokers are required intermediaries . 
Thus , he asserts , Lloyd 's ca n't react quickly to competition . 
, and we are trying to plot our way ahead , '' he says . 
which other people then take , copy and cut rates . '' 
But along with such treasured artifacts as Lord Nelson 's spyglass , Lloyd 's also brought its outmoded ways of doing business . 
Some maintain underwriters also have been inept . 
But it will be years before it is clear whether higher rates will offset the payouts for such disasters . 
before it is clear whether higher rates will offset the payouts for such disasters . 
But Mr. Lawrence says reported profit will be down in 1987 , 1988 and 1989 , though he declines to specify how steep the decline will be . 
, though he declines to specify how steep the decline will be . 
Meanwhile , the exchange has been trying to lower costs . 
But Lloyd 's is hampered in its efforts to overhaul operations by its reluctance to embrace modern technology . 
. 
Lloyd 's overblown bureaucracy also hampers efforts to update marketing strategies . 
, and such policies are sold only in limited markets such as the U.K. and Canada . 
But such changes must be cleared by four internal committees and dozens of underwriters , brokers and administrators before being implemented . 
before being implemented . 
Lloyd 's is moving forward on some fronts , though . 
, while the chairman 's role is more a ceremonial one . 
. 
but that is still seeking to realize its potential in global investment banking and securities dealing . 
while preparing the firm for the effects of the continuing deregulation of Japan 's domestic markets , which should mean increased competition . 
U.S. . 
And while the Japanese have stepped up their purchases of U.S. shares in the past several months , they have shown themselves in the past to be fickle investors . 
. 
. 
`` But not a single piece of paper was sold . '' 
. 
But he could n't sell any . 
when he and two colleagues went on an overnight fishing expedition off the New Jersey shore and caught nothing . 
, and the woman driver said : ` Americans make better fishermen , ' '' he recalled . 
In his climb to the top , Mr. Dozen also headed the company 's stock-exchange division , its fixed-income units and its international operations . 
But it Mr. Dozen 's experience as a salesman that enabled him to gain the political support -- particularly from the retail sales force -- to accede to the presidency . 
And anybody who lacked the backing of the retail sales force `` would be fragile , '' said a Daiwa executive . 
. 
The nickel producer also raised its quarterly dividend to 25 cents a share from 20 cents and said it may buy back as much as 4.8 % of its common outstanding . 
, though it would be smaller than the $ 10-a-share special dividend it paid last year . 
if nickel market conditions are favorable . 
As a result , UAL 's chairman , Stephen M. Wolf , pulled out of the buy-out effort to focus on running the company . 
when British Airways PLC , the largest equity investor in the labor-management bid , withdrew its support . 
after the exchange is closed , were 10,000 shares at $ 170 , 6,000 shares at $ 162 , 2,500 at $ 162 , and 10,000 at $ 158 . 
after six consecutive losses left the price 41 % below its level before Oct. 13 , the day the group announced the bank financing could n't be obtained for the original deal . 
But the board said it was n't interested for now . 
while leaving some stock in public hands . 
And , with no other offers on the table , the board apparently felt no pressure to act on it . 
The directors signaled , however , that they would be willing to consider future offers or take some other action to maximize shareholder value , saying they would continue to explore `` all strategic and financial alternatives . '' 
But it was clear that for the time being , the board wants the company to return to normalcy . 
He also vowed to `` make every effort to nurture ... a constructive new relationship that has been forged with participating employee groups . '' 
But Mr. Wolf faces a monumental task in pulling the company back together again . 
and that the labor disputes that faced the company prior to the buy-out effort `` still need to be addressed . '' 
The buy-out effort also worsened already-strained relations between United 's pilot and machinist unions . 
, but he lost much of his credibility with that group when he teamed up with the pilot union . 
when he teamed up with the pilot union . 
His credibility is also on the line in the investment community . 
. 
after engineering turnarounds of Tiger International Inc. and Republic Airlines . 
But he and his chief financial officer , John Pope , sowed some of the seeds for the deal 's failure by insisting banks accept low financing fees and interest rates , while they invested in the transaction only a small fraction of the $ 114.3 million they stood to gain from sale of their UAL stock and options . 
, while they invested in the transaction only a small fraction of the $ 114.3 million they stood to gain from sale of their UAL stock and options . 
It also inevitably leaves a residue of shareholder lawsuits . 
However , he is restricted from making certain hostile moves by an agreement he signed to obtain confidential UAL data . 
unless he makes a tender offer at least $ 300 a share . 
because we have been able to satisfy our need -LCB- for DRAMs -RCB- from the market as a rule , '' said Ed Juge , Tandy 's director of market planning . 
But `` they were n't on my list of companies who were critical to be a part of it . '' 
soon after the group finishes a business plan , probably late this week . 
But so far , most potential participants have n't decided . 
, although `` it is n't under active consideration . 
if it got wind of an impending coup that might result in his assassination . 
. 
while stamping `` top secret '' on their own complicity . 
But there 's no danger of exposing sources and methods in disclosing the debate running up and down Pennsylvania Avenue . 
And if Congress is going to assume authority to micromanage foreign policy , it 's going to have to take some of the responsibility too . 
. 
. 
But what kind of initiative can you expect given the climate set by Congress ? 
For example , what exactly did the CIA tell Major Giroldi and his fellow coup plotters about U.S. laws and executive orders on assassinations ? What part did U.S. warnings play in the major 's unwillingness to pull the trigger when he had General Noriega in custody , but was under attack by pro-Noriega troops ? 
when he had General Noriega in custody , but was under attack by pro-Noriega troops ? 
once he had the pistol . 
, because we may rat on you . 
, but instead simply underlined Mr. Webster 's point . 
In other words , Congress wo n't let the CIA do much of anything anymore , and that 's fine with the CIA . 
, and that 's fine with the CIA . 
, and the duty 's lighter . 
And of course , doing anything that might be second-guessed by Congress carries heavy penalties . 
if they fail ? 
, but rescinding the executive order is not the same thing as saying the U.S. should start passing out exploding cigars . 
, but ABC 's Ted Koppel came up with a new wrinkle in his earthquake coverage last week when he asked Democratic Assemblyman Richard Katz if Prop. 13 had withheld money needed for road maintenance . 
, even while the price of gasoline has fallen . 
, but officials said a number of workers were still unaccounted for last night . 
, where about 150 companies have operations , because the thick , black smoke obscured the area . 
, but by late yesterday authorities said they had the fire under control . 
, but a spokeswoman said that toll could rise . 
. 
U.S. District Judge David Edelstein also permanently enjoined Mr. Lombardo from any future dealings with the Teamsters or any other labor union . 
as profits from two of its three major businesses sagged . 
Phillips Petroleum Co. and Atlantic Richfield Co. also reported declines in quarterly profit , while Ashland Oil Inc. posted a loss for the latest quarter . 
, while Ashland Oil Inc. posted a loss for the latest quarter . 
. 
when one of its tankers rammed into an underwater reef . 
She added , however , that charges already taken do n't take into account the potential effect of litigation involving the oil spill . 
, while refining and marketing profits declined $ 180 million , to $ 357 million . 
, said William Randol , oil analyst for First Boston Corp . 
Ashland also took a $ 25 million after-tax charge to cover anticipated costs to correct problems with boilers built by one of its subsidiaries . 
The oil refiner also booked a $ 15 million charge for selling Ashland Technology Corp. , one of its subsidiaries , at a loss . 
, and exploration and production earnings rose to $ 37.1 million from $ 17.9 million . 
after Hurricane Hugo heavily damaged the company 's refinery at St. Croix . 
There are also about $ 124 million of 6 1\/2 % bonds priced to yield 7.25 % in 2012 ; about $ 97 million of 6 % bonds priced to yield 7.20 % in 2014 ; and about $ 26.5 million of 5 % bonds priced to yield 7.15 % in 2016 . 
Separately , a $ 400 million issue of Fannie Mae Remic mortgage securities is being offered in 15 classes by Bear , Stearns & Co . The offering , Series 1989-86 , is backed by Fannie Mae 9 % securities . 
Finally , a $ 300 million issue of Fannie Mae Remic mortgage securities is being offered in 12 classes by Smith Barney , Harris Upham & Co . 
`` But I 'm going to proceed in a more logical way . I 'm not going to do anything that is not acceptable in anyone 's home . 
But that does n't mean I 'm not going to get angry . '' 
! '' 
But just how does Mr. Downey 's unorthodox style mesh with the sedate tone of CNBC 's business programming ? 
after advertisers and stations abandoned it . 
because cash that would normally be used to keep the company buoyant must be diverted to interest payments . 
On the other hand , investors beat a clear path yesterday to blue-chip issues with proven earnings growth records . 
and the second thing you do is sell your over-leveraged companies . '' 
In fact , much of the buying in blue chips yesterday was a pursuit of companies with lower debt levels . 
, but Mr. Kerschner said the company is carrying real estate assets at about $ 2.6 billion below their real value . 
, and Procter & Gamble gained 3\/4 to 130 5\/8 . 
, and J. Baker gained 3\/8 to 21 1\/4 . 
, while Sara Lee closed unchanged at 60 1\/8 . 
But starting in early September , the index started to slide and now stands about even with the S&P 500 . 
Also , Exxon went down 3\/8 to 45 3\/4 and Allied-Signal lost 7\/8 to 35 1\/8 even though the companies ' results for the quarter were in line with forecasts . 
and Allied-Signal lost 7\/8 to 35 1\/8 even though the companies ' results for the quarter were in line with forecasts . 
even though the companies ' results for the quarter were in line with forecasts . 
if it ca n't reach an agreement with federal regulators to provide additional capital to MeraBank . 
. 
and Olin slid 1 to 57 3\/4 . 
. 
However , Delta Air Lines fell 1 1\/2 to 67 1\/2 and USAir Group dropped 3\/4 to 42 1\/2 . 
and USAir Group dropped 3\/4 to 42 1\/2 . 
after revamping the terms of its restructuring plan , which calls for the company to sell its hotel operations for $ 540 million and spin off its casino business to shareholders . 
and McGraw-Hill added 1\/2 to 67 1\/8 . 
, but is n't it interesting that some of the country 's biggest , most troubled school districts are choosing new chiefs from the same gravel-chewing mold ? 
, but already he 's roiling the waters . 
. 
when he was arrested for allegedly buying crack . 
, and tenure has withstood previous challenge . 
But the no-more-nonsense superintendents are going to have to be judicious as well ; incompetent principals and administrators should go , but the good ones ought to be left alone . 
, but the good ones ought to be left alone . 
, but in Chicago the new boards will make mistakes and Mr. Kimbrough will have to identify them . 
and Mr. Kimbrough will have to identify them . 
, and kids stopped learning . 
, and maybe some day he 'll return . 
As part of the agreement , Goodson also terminated the contract under which Ingersoll manages Goodson 's 66 newspapers , ending a long association between the two companies that has turned increasingly bitter recently . 
Goodson also announced that it hired the former president and senior vice president of Ingersoll to run the Goodson papers . 
But in recent years , Mr. Ingersoll began focusing more on expanding his own newspaper empire in partnership with investment banking firm Warburg , Pincus & Co . 
, '' and that he feels `` more comfortable with a management team whose sole interest and responsibility is in the Goodson papers . 
. 
The company later apologized and agreed to make $ 8 million in contributions to charities chosen by him . 
. 
before succumbing in May . 
And although Mr. Roman and WPP 's chief executive , Martin Sorrell , have gone out of their way to be publicly supportive of each other , people close to Mr. Roman say he was unhappy giving up control of the company . 
. 
Some executives also cite tension because of efforts by Mr. Sorrell , a financial man , to cut costs at the agency . 
and who , like Mr. Sorrell , is British . 
Mr. Roman also had overseen Ogilvy Group 's two other units , the Scali McCabe Sloves advertising agency and its research division , but those units will now report directly to WPP . 
, but those units will now report directly to WPP . 
Moreover , after 26 years at Ogilvy he had honed a reputation for being squeaky-clean and a straight arrow -- which can only help American Express in the wake of the Safra incident . 
He also is close to American Express 's chairman and chief executive officer , James D. Robinson III . 
But Mr. Roman flatly denied the speculation , saying Mr. Sorrell had tried several times to persuade him to stay , offering various incentives and in one instance sending a note with a case of wine -LRB- The wine , naturally , was Seagram 's brand , an Ogilvy client -RRB- . 
According to industry executives , Peter Sutherland , a former European Community commissioner from Ireland , was also a serious contender for the American Express job . 
. 
because `` it 's the right time , it 's a terrific opportunity , and I think I leave the company in very strong hands . 
because `` it 's the right time , it 's a terrific opportunity , and I think I leave the company in very strong hands . 
, and I think I leave the company in very strong hands . 
Mr. Roman also brushed aside reports about infighting between him and Mr. Phillips , his successor at Ogilvy . 
. 
if I did n't think he was the right guy ? '' Mr. Roman asked . 
, but he wo n't be involved in its advertising , which is handled by the operating units . 
He also will sit on the company 's corporate planning and policy committee , made up of the top corporate and operating executives . 
But some clients and analysts expressed concern that Mr. Phillips is n't as well-known to many clients . 
And some analysts questioned whether Mr. Phillips would have the skills Ogilvy needs to turn the agency around . 
; it has won few new accounts while losing big ones , including Maxwell House . 
while losing big ones , including Maxwell House . 
, and I do n't think they have it , '' said Emma Hill , an analyst with Wertheim & Co . 
, and nobody has filled that void , '' said Ms. Hill . 
But other analysts said that having Mr. Phillips succeed Mr. Roman would make for a smooth transition . 
But David Lord , managing editor of Consultants News , an industry publication based in Fitzwilliam , N.H. , said an industry standard would suggest a purchase price of between one and two times Cleveland Consulting 's approximately $ 15 million annual revenue . 
, and then will be released internationally in movie theaters . 
, who also stars in the movie . 
, and Gerry Hogan , president of Turner Entertainment Networks , was named president of the unit . 
But he said Turner Broadcasting already has found some ideas that might work well as films for theatrical release in the U.S. . 
U.S. , '' he said , adding that Turner Pictures may develop such movies next year for domestic release in 1991 . 
, and when the time is right , we 'll release the films in the U.S. , '' he said , adding that Turner Pictures may develop such movies next year for domestic release in 1991 . 
U.S. , '' he said , adding that Turner Pictures may develop such movies next year for domestic release in 1991 . 
, but the company has never acted as a full-fledged movie studio and released its own pictures to theaters . 
and be distributed later in various markets , including foreign theaters . 
. 
It also would make Paribas a major French ally of West Germany 's Allianz AG insurance group . 
, and the Munich-based group said it intends to stay neutral . 
until its board meets Wednesday . 
But Navigation Mixte is loosely held and hard to defend . 
. 
Moreover , Suez had just finished winning an even larger battle last year for control of Societe Generale de Belgique . 
. 
It also reflects the broader pressure on companies in Europe to keep up as the European Community prepares to reduce internal trade barriers by 1992 . 
as the European Community prepares to reduce internal trade barriers by 1992 . 
. 
, he stressed the potential for the two groups instead to cooperate . 
He also told reporters the acquisition would give Paribas fresh diversity , bringing it properties in food and transport where it has been weak . 
And Navigation Mixte has a huge hidden attraction . Payment by Allianz for the insurance interests it has just bought will help swell the French concern 's treasury to an estimated 11 billion francs . 
Alternatively , it said it would offer three Paribas shares , themselves eligible for dividends as of next Jan. 1 , for one Navigation Mixte share . 
, and Navigation Mixte shares were suspended at 1,800 francs pending the outcome of the bid . 
once authorities clear it . 
only after speculation had pushed up the price . 
. 
Analysts said they do n't think it is contemplating a takeover , however , and its officials could n't be reached . 
, and its officials could n't be reached . 
as analysts and traders said OPEC oil producers are n't putting the brakes on output ahead of the traditionally weak first quarter . 
Petroleum products prices also declined . 
But because first-quarter demand is normally the weakest of the year , several market participants say , OPEC production will have to decline to keep prices from eroding further . 
. 
With prices already headed lower , news of a series of explosions at a major Phillips Petroleum Co. chemical facility on the Houston Ship Channel also was bearish for prices . 
. 
when a seal blew out . 
For instance , one trader said that prices inevitably will go lower now that they 've fallen below $ 20 a barrel . 
now that they 've fallen below $ 20 a barrel . 
now that we 've taken out $ 20 , '' he said . 
and when it dropped below the $ 1.23-a-pound level , selling picked up as previous buyers bailed out of their positions and aggressive short sellers -- anticipating further declines -- moved in . 
as previous buyers bailed out of their positions and aggressive short sellers -- anticipating further declines -- moved in . 
as previous buyers bailed out of their positions and aggressive short sellers -- anticipating further declines -- moved in . 
Fund selling also picked up at that point . 
when short sellers periodically moved in to cover their positions by buying contracts . 
, which in turn attracted new short selling . 
if the dollar had been strong , '' he said . 
. 
because both metals are used in automobile catalytic converters . 
because many traders have already been badly burnt by such stories . 
before they will buy palladium again . 
Also weighing on both metals ' prices is the role of the chief supplier , the Soviet Union . 
as contracts reacted to largely offsetting bullish and bearish news . 
, while the December wheat contract rose three-quarters of a cent to $ 4.0775 a bushel . 
But acting as a drag on prices was the improved harvest weather over the weekend and the prospect for continued fair weather this week over much of the Farm Belt . 
Strong farmer selling over the weekend also weighed on prices . 
, and there have been expectations of a major purchase by Japan . 
But with no reports of either country actually entering the market , analysts said , futures prices became vulnerable . 
But Erik Dunlaevy , a sugar analyst with Balfour Maclaine International Ltd. , said the explanation for the latest drop in sugar prices is much simpler : Speculators , he said , `` got too long too soon and ran into resistance around the old contract highs . '' 
But Mr. Savaiko expects stepped-up producer selling at around the $ 1,040 to $ 1,050 level . 
He also noted that a strong sterling market yesterday might have helped cocoa in New York as arbitragers took advantage of the currency move . 
as arbitragers took advantage of the currency move . 
when preparing a press for printing . 
because economic weakness sometimes causes the Federal Reserve to lower interest rates in an effort to stimulate the economy and stave off a recession . 
For example , today the Department of Commerce is scheduled to release the September durable goods report . The consensus forecast of 14 economists surveyed by Dow Jones Capital Markets Report is for a 1.2 % drop in September orders . That would follow a 3.9 % advance in August . Bonds received a bigger boost later in the day when stock prices moved broadly lower . The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 26.23 points to 2662.91 . 
, '' which are considered safer , he said . 
, while the yield slid to 7.93 % from 7.98 % Friday . 
, while mortgage-backed and investment-grade corporate bonds rose . 
while underwriters for Beatrice Co. 's $ 350 million issue are considering restructuring the deal to attract buyers . 
as the market takes in positive and negative news . 
`` On the other hand , we have economic news that is -LCB- expected to be -RCB- relatively positive for the bond market . 
. 
Thus , higher bidding narrows the investor 's return while lower bidding widens it . 
while lower bidding widens it . 
, while the coupon-equivalent yield is based on a 365-day year . 
, and the 26-week bills mature April 26 , 1990 . 
, and if you have a good , strong credit , people have an appetite for it , '' he said . 
, '' he said . 
before they are offered to investors . 
, and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. offered a $ 250 million Remic backed by 9 % 15-year securities . 
as the bond market has risen in the past two weeks . 
; and Freddie Mac 9 % securities were at 97 1\/2 , up 1\/4 . 
, as the spread above the Treasury 10-year note widened slightly to 1.46 percentage points . 
But alleviating that overhang failed to stimulate much activity in the secondary market , where prices were off 1\/8 to up 3\/8 point . 
In addition , he noted , the issue would normally be the type purchased by property and casualty insurers , but recent disasters , such as Hurricane Hugo and the Northern California earthquake , have stretched insurers ' resources and damped their demand for bonds . 
, but recent disasters , such as Hurricane Hugo and the Northern California earthquake , have stretched insurers ' resources and damped their demand for bonds . 
after the dollar rose modestly against the yen . 
, while the 6 3\/4 % notes due July 1994 fell 0.10 to 97.65 to yield 7.34 % . 
as investors looked ahead to today 's British trade report . 
, while the 12 % issue of 1995 rose 3\/32 to 103 23\/32 to yield 11.01 % . 
, and now with the first sun we are after speckled seatrout , which with redfish provides most of the game fishing hereabouts . 
as other boats want to see if we have found any fish -- spotting location is everything in this sport . 
though it 's only 8 in the morning . 
Then he casts out . `` Just wait for that tap-tap , that thump-thump . It comes real gentle before it pulls . Do n't forget , trout have very soft mouths . '' 
before it pulls . 
And we are the first back at the dock , where the great blue herons stand waiting by the cleaning benches . 
and he knows this business but he wants a different life after college , such as working for IBM and wearing a necktie . 
but he wants a different life after college , such as working for IBM and wearing a necktie . 
and they live here , that 's all . 
and the birds are innumerable , especially the herons and the spoonbills . 
as we whoosh through . 
Dana also said it was hurt by slumping U.S. truck sales and by a strike at a parts supplier . 
And , for Ms. Baker , the ride was far from over . 
, but courage of a rare sort made her remarkable life possible . 
But she did n't trust them and did n't reward trust . 
Her appetite for children also was large . 
and then to Argentina . 
Finally , Prince Rainier and Princess Grace saved her with the offer of a house in Monaco . 
and some intellectuals were writing breathlessly of a dawning age to be inspired by blacks . 
, but for the most part Paris was a friendly island in a racist world . 
and all the French fell in love with her , '' sniffed the literary world 's Maria Jolas , not entirely inaccurately . 
'' and thereby ignoring centuries of tributes to the callipygous . 
Still , even the title raises questions about the author 's vision of her subject . 
when she died in Paris , two days after the sold-out opening of her newest show : a movie-like ending to what was a cinematic life . 
, two days after the sold-out opening of her newest show : a movie-like ending to what was a cinematic life . 
In fact , Ms. Baker played scenes in Casablanca that could have made it into `` Casablanca . '' 
and then a one-woman USO tour for the forces of Free France . 
, and when she sang `` J'ai deux amours '' they wept . 
. 
, but as `` Jazz Cleopatra '' goes on , it seems more rushed , as though the author were growing less interested . 
, as though the author were growing less interested . 
, as though the author were growing less interested . 
The text by Patrick O'Connor is a tough read , but the pictures make her magnetism clear and help explain why Ernest Hemingway called Baker `` The most sensational woman anybody ever saw . Or ever will . '' 
But Manville 's ownership is unusual , and it has caught the eye of some canny -- and patient -- investors . 
, and it has caught the eye of some canny -- and patient -- investors . 
. 
But as an 80 % owner , if it tried to sell much of its stock in the market , it would likely depress the price of its shares . 
. 
Some investors say there is a good chance that the trust will , instead , seek to convert the company 's shares to cash , in some sort of friendly restructuring that would n't involve just dumping stock on the market . 
. 
However , the trust 's cash flow from investments is far short of its payments to asbestos victims . 
The trust also will receive $ 75 million a year starting in 1991 on a bond it holds from Manville . 
And , beginning in 1992 , it will have a claim on as much as 20 % of Manville 's annual net income . 
, since the most expensive claims are being settled first -RRB- . 
And as of midyear , settled but unpaid claims amounted to $ 136 million -- more than half the trust 's total of $ 268 million in cash and marketable securities . 
, and this trust needs income . 
Moreover , with 88 % of its assets tied up in Manville , the trust is badly in need of diversification . 
. 
But the trust , in most cases , is forbidden from seeking a buyer for only its shares before November 1993 . 
And both the trust and Manville are seeking to avoid the bad publicity that , in the asbestos era , tarred the Manville name . 
Thus , analysts say , the trust is unlikely to do anything that would hurt Manville 's other shareholders . 
. 
They are , nonetheless , high on Manville 's management . 
And he says Manville has the financial flexibility to buy other companies at the best possible moment when other construction-related firms are hurting and selling cheap . 
With a conservative debt-to-equity ratio of 1-to-1 -- and $ 329 million in cash -- Manville is indeed actively on the prowl . 
. '' 
And Mr. Kleinaitis says that with 80 % of its stock in friendly hands , Manville is the rare publicly traded company that can ignore short-term stock fluctuations and plan for the long haul . 
. 
, with the spinoff occurring by the end of 1992 . 
Also holding two seats each on the board , they said , would be Olympia & York Developments Ltd. , controlled by the Reichmann family of Canada , and Itel Corp. , controlled by Chicago businessman Sam Zell . 
and Olympia & York later purchased about a 20 % stake ; they would have interests in the new realty company in line with their holdings in Sante Fe Pacific . 
and Olympia & York later purchased about a 20 % stake ; they would have interests in the new realty company in line with their holdings in Sante Fe Pacific . 
In addition , pension funds are rarely given seats on company boards and most often try to avoid them because of legal concerns . 
But fund officials said the Santa Fe Pacific Realty investment provides an opportunity to buy a stake in a large real estate portfolio heavily weighted with California properties . It also marks a `` major commitment to -LCB- real estate -RCB- development , which we have n't been involved with before , '' said Dale Hanson , the fund 's executive director . 
It also marks a `` major commitment to -LCB- real estate -RCB- development , which we have n't been involved with before , '' said Dale Hanson , the fund 's executive director . 
Under the proposed plan , the fund would also lend Santa Fe Pacific Realty $ 75 million in the form of a note that would be convertible into additional shares of the realty company after the second year at the then-prevailing market price . 
before the planned spinoff . 
It also holds nearly 40,000 acres of raw land with development potential , but under a previously announced strategy , the company has targeted building on 5,400 acres in California , Arizona and the Chicago area . 
, but under a previously announced strategy , the company has targeted building on 5,400 acres in California , Arizona and the Chicago area . 
, although it is n't obliged to make further investments . 
, and it has a growing cash flow now topping $ 3 billion a year . 
, but they were approached with the idea by real estate brokers JMB Realty Corp. of Chicago . 
because they were considered to be important tests of the government 's ability to convince a jury of allegations stemming from its insider-trading investigations . 
, and then pointed the finger at Mr. Sherwin , takeover speculator Salim B. Lewis and corporate raider Paul Bilzerian . 
But GAF 's bellwether role was short-lived . 
when U.S. District Judge Mary Johnson Lowe found that a prosecutor improperly , but unintentionally , withheld a document . 
, and another mistrial was declared on March 22 . 
Meanwhile , a federal jury found Mr. Bilzerian guilty on securities fraud and other charges in June . 
Nevertheless , the stakes are still high for the players directly involved in the GAF case . 
, but by the end of the month the talks had ended . 
. ' '' 
because it places a cap on the total amount of money available to settle claims . 
It also bars future suits against Robins company officials , members of the Robins family and Robins 's former insurer , Aetna Life & Casualty Co . 
while it works out a plan for paying its debts . 
, but only if all legal challenges to the plan are exhausted . 
, but only if all legal challenges to the plan are exhausted . 
, while jeopardizing the proposed reorganization and the settlement payments to claimants . 
, and the decision is the first jury verdict in such a case . 
But Superfund also contains a criminal provision concerning the release of toxic substances into the environment . 
But Superfund also contains a criminal provision concerning the release of toxic substances into the environment . 
He was also convicted of failing to properly remove asbestos from the building , a violation of the Clean Air Act . 
because `` no cleanup is possible here . 
, '' says Richard A. Dennis , the assistant U.S. attorney who prosecuted the case . 
and that the inmate who filed the appeal lacks proper standing . 
and that no objections were raised . 
The coupling of the law firm and the Washington Legal Foundation is odd also , because Wilmer Cutler was one of the firms singled out for criticism two years ago by the conservative legal group for displaying a liberal bias in its pro bono work . 
, because Wilmer Cutler was one of the firms singled out for criticism two years ago by the conservative legal group for displaying a liberal bias in its pro bono work . 
, although the government says they had a value of only $ 53 to $ 200 apiece . 
and that Barclay 's total proceeds from the sales were $ 3.4 million . 
, who died in January . 
. '' 
. 
since Mr. Decker took over . 
Its stock also has risen lately , at least partly because it is considered a possible takeover candidate . 
, at least partly because it is considered a possible takeover candidate . 
, and larger California banks , such as Wells Fargo & Co. , have been paying fat premiums to buy smaller banks to control markets before any out-of-state banks enter the fray . 
before any out-of-state banks enter the fray . 
Additionally , the full-year profit last year reflected an after-tax restructuring charge of $ 22.8 million , or $ 1.04 a share . 
after missing interest payments on about $ 1 billion of debt , will retain the right to regain the subsidiary . 
only if it sells substantially all of its other core businesses . 
It also can sell the right to regain the subsidiary to another party . 
Also , the broker-dealer subsidiary , Integrated Resources Equity Corp. , was renamed Royal Alliance Associates Inc . 
. 
, and it was n't immediately clear what would happen to the broker-dealer subsidiary if Integrated files for bankruptcy-law protection in the meantime . 
if Integrated files for bankruptcy-law protection in the meantime . 
, even while the unit is independent . 
, even while the unit is independent . 
. 
after the market closed . 
as foreign-exchange dealers awaited fresh economic news that they hope will jolt the U.S. unit out of its narrow ranges . 
They noted , however , that a 26-point drop in the Dow Jones Industrial Average gave the dollar a sharp nudge downward late in the day . 
, if it turns out as expected . 
`` Yet even a relatively strong number -- 2.8 % to 2.9 % -- wo n't alter the market 's view that the economy is softening . '' 
, after climbing 4.6 % in the second quarter . 
. 
and sentiment gripped the market that the U.S. economy was losing its momentum . 
. '' 
. 
Traders , however , are quick to point out that while there is little enthusiasm for buying dollars , the U.S. unit has found a `` natural bottom '' at about 1.85 marks and 140 yen . 
. 
Claiborne 's directors also declared its regular cash dividend payment of five cents a share payable on Dec. 5 to shareholders of record at the close of business on Nov. 13 . 
Stocks also rose in London , while the Frankfurt market was mixed . 
, while the Frankfurt market was mixed . 
But the market lost part of the early gains on index-linked investment trust fund selling . 
But overall buying interest remained strong through Monday , with many observers saying they expect the Nikkei to continue with moderate gains this week . 
But institutional investors may wait a little longer to appraise the direction of the U.S. monetary policy and the dollar , traders said . 
, and Kyowa Hakko gained 30 to 1,770 . 
, but dealers added that the day 's modest gains also signaled some support for London equities . 
, but dealers added that the day 's modest gains also signaled some support for London equities . 
Dealers , however , said forecasts are broadly divergent with estimates ranging between # 1 billion and # 2 billion . 
after it said its pretax profit for the year rose 28 % . 
after recovering most of their early losses . 
after falling 5.5 points early in the session . 
But there was little selling pressure , and even small orders at the lower levels sufficed to bring the market back to Friday 's opening levels . 
, and even small orders at the lower levels sufficed to bring the market back to Friday 's opening levels . 
, and analysts are n't sure how long it will take until the DAX has closed that gap . 
until the DAX has closed that gap . 
But Norbert Braeuer , chief trader at Hessische Landesbank Girozentrale -LRB- Helaba -RRB- , said he expects share prices to move upward in the coming weeks . 
, as Deutsche Bank and Dresdner Bank added 4 marks each to 664 marks -LRB- $ 357 -RRB- and 326 marks , respectively . 
, as Daimler-Benz firmed 2 to 723 , Bayerische Motoren Werke lost the same amount to 554 , and Volkswagen inched down 1.4 to 451.6 . 
, and Volkswagen inched down 1.4 to 451.6 . 
The Miami-based environmental engineering concern said GSX Chemical also will assume about $ 1.6 million in debt related to those divisions . 
Further , GSX will buy $ 1 million of Enviropact common stock , at $ 2.625 a share , plus an option to acquire an additional $ 1.5 million of common at the same price , the company said . 
after sharply increasing loan-loss reserves . 
, but he said his leaving is a normal retirement . 
Co. before that company 's merger with Squibb Corp . 
. 
It also purchases data systems products from a manufacturer based in Monterrey . 
. 
after the company projected a `` substantial '' third-period loss , the stock also fell $ 1.125 in composite New York Stock Exchange trading yesterday , to $ 51.75 . 
, the stock also fell $ 1.125 in composite New York Stock Exchange trading yesterday , to $ 51.75 . 
, largely because damage assessment has n't yet been completed . 
. 
when one of its tankers ran into an underwater reef . 
and that state officials banned their use during the two days of fair weather following the spill . 
because tests conducted during the first two days following the spill showed that the dispersant was n't working anyway . 
when a test on the third day showed some positive results , officials said . 
, but it also provoked a struggle with influential California lawmakers who sought unsuccessfully to add nearly $ 1 billion more and waive current restrictions to expedite the distribution of funds . 
, but it also provoked a struggle with influential California lawmakers who sought unsuccessfully to add nearly $ 1 billion more and waive current restrictions to expedite the distribution of funds . 
, and the debate forced a strained confrontation between Appropriations Committee Chairman Jamie Whitten -LRB- D. , Miss . -RRB- and his party 's largest state delegation in the House . 
`` I have no regrets about going forward , '' said Rep. Vic Fazio -LRB- D. , Calif. -RRB- , who sought later to play down the sometimes hostile tone of the long evening meeting . 
, '' Mr. Fazio said , `` and there is a certain amount of jealousy . '' 
, and Congress is under pressure to complete action before midnight EDT tomorrow , when the current continuing resolution expires . 
But in private meetings yesterday , Budget Director Richard Darman argued that only $ 1.5 billion in new federal appropriations are needed to supplement existing resources . 
, and the administration rejects the notion that new appropriations are needed to finance disaster loans by the Small Business Administration . 
and that we 've got to address it , '' said Mr. Darman , who came to the Capitol to meet with Mr. Whitten and California lawmakers before the committee session . 
and then a veto threat . '' 
. 
to underscore the range of legislative changes also sought by the delegation . 
, and even when this was accepted as such on a voice vote , Mr. Whitten pointedly opposed it . 
. 
, but the state faces more resistance in its bid for an extended waiver on having to put up any matching funds on repairs completed in the next six months . 
, and lumber interests sought to add another $ 100 million in federal aid to plant timber on private land in North and South Carolina . 
However , Raymond C. Kurzweil , chairman and chief executive , said `` The company continues to require additional funding to realize the potential of its technology . '' 
Amtech , which also provides technical temporary employment services to aerospace , defense , computer and high-tech companies in the Southwest and Baltimore-Washington areas , said its final audited results are due in late November . 
He also denounced Moscow 's nine-year involvement in the war in Afghanistan , saying it involved `` gross violations of ... civil norms and ethics . '' 
, but the massive gridlock anticipated by officials in the San Francisco Bay area never materialized . 
, hospital officials said . 
Rescue crews , however , gave up hope that others would be found alive under the collapsed roadway . 
as Acting President Szuros delivered a nationally televised address rejecting communist dominance . 
and thousands more staged protests in three other cities in a fresh challenge to the Communist leadership to introduce democratic freedoms . 
In an East Berlin suburb , meanwhile , employees at an electronics plant formed an independent trade union called Reform , a worker spokesman said . 
because high winds had been predicted at the landing site . 
, and a number of workers were missing . 
after officials said Bush complained at a private meeting last week that a strict interpretation of a policy requires the U.S. to notify foreign dictators of certain coup plots . 
after Lebanon 's two main Shiite militias rejected an Arab-sponsored peace accord . 
when the alliance 's nuclear planning group convenes a two-day session today in Portugal . 
after Zimbabwe 's President Mugabe called Thatcher 's views on South Africa `` despicable . '' 
At a meeting in Malaysia , Australia and Canada also assailed the British prime minister for criticizing the 49-nation group 's call for Pretoria to ease apartheid . 
because it was n't able to realize the value it had expected . 
, and it alleged other serious violations of law and regulations . 
He also cited unfavorable foreign-exchange rates and a lower tax rate . 
after U.S. auto dealers , including franchised foreign-car dealers , complained that they often were blamed when the second and third buyers of such vehicles found that the cars could n't meet U.S. auto safety standards . 
when the second and third buyers of such vehicles found that the cars could n't meet U.S. auto safety standards . 
The Costa Mesa , Calif. , maker of computer tape drives also projected record revenue for the year of $ 181 million , up from $ 122.7 million for the previous year . 
In addition , the manufacturer said it signed a consent decree with Ohio to build a $ 1.4 million pollution-control facility at the Ashtabula chemical manufacturing plant by Aug. 1 , 1990 . 
Co. , which will also purchase an over-allotment of 2.3 million additional units . 
In addition , analysts have viewed the rights offering as a takeover defense that prospectively balloons the number of shares outstanding . 
Also , UAL Chairman Stephen Wolf pulled out of the buy-out effort to focus on running the company . 
and bonds rose as worries mounted about the economy and the junk bond market . 
as worries mounted about the economy and the junk bond market . 
The dollar also declined . 
Also , withdrawals exceeded deposits by $ 5.1 billion in the month . 
; you attempt to seize assets related to the crime , '' he explained . 
if there are less intrusive means of protecting assets the government may subsequently be able to seize after a conviction , Mr. Runkel said . 
But instead of thanks , Sen. Cranston was treated with cool formality . 
, '' the Texas lawmaker says . 
And he has attached himself to the Lincoln story tenaciously . `` Unless the questions are answered , I will keep on going . '' 
. '' 
In the recent Housing and Urban Development Department scandal , for example , Rep. Thomas Lantos , the California Democrat who led the hearings , tiptoed through embarrassing disclosures about HUD grants secured by Sen. Alfonse D'Amato , a New York Republican . 
But Chairman Gonzalez is a genuine maverick . 
Mr. Gonzalez is also a stickler for ethical standards who refuses to accept honorariums and who believes in conducting official business in the open . 
and who believes in conducting official business in the open . 
when political supporters asked that the police chief be replaced , denouncing the closed-door affair publicly as a `` bat-roost meeting . '' 
after his staff told him that the California thrift was insolvent and that potential losses to taxpayers were growing rapidly . 
and that potential losses to taxpayers were growing rapidly . 
when hearings resume Thursday with testimony by two federal regulators from San Francisco , William Black and Mike Patriarca . 
, and by God I 'm not going to tolerate it , '' he says . 
Mr. Wall , however , is a self-proclaimed `` child of the Senate '' and former staff director of its Banking Committee . 
, '' says Michael Waldman , director of Congress Watch , a consumer group . 
And a Democratic aide to a Banking Committee member remarks , `` I too am astounded by it , because Gonzalez has certainly placed a lot of Democratic senators in a very bad position . '' 
, because Gonzalez has certainly placed a lot of Democratic senators in a very bad position . '' 
, and the California thrift 's parent is an Ohio-chartered corporation with holdings in Michigan . 
and I know he 's an honest man , '' the Texan says . 
But at the same time , Mr. Gonzalez has n't forgotten a confrontation over Mr. Wall during House-Senate negotiations over S&L bailout legislation during the summer . 
, which was partly reinstated later . 
if there could be some understanding on Garn 's insistence on Wall . '' 
while the Georgia Democrat was taking his side against regulators who wanted to curb risky investments and wholesale deposit brokering . 
'' when the committee authorized a subpoena to compel Mr. Keating to testify , then changed his vote to yes . 
'' when the committee authorized a subpoena to compel Mr. Keating to testify , then changed his vote to yes . 
But the chairman 's supporters have the upper hand as federal regulators press a $ 1.1 billion fraud suit against Mr. Keating and others . 
as federal regulators press a $ 1.1 billion fraud suit against Mr. Keating and others . 
But the witness , William Crawford , California 's chief state thrift regulator , denies saying that . 
, because I 'm not a lawyer , '' he said in a telephone interview yesterday . 
But he said he is prepared to testify that executives of Lincoln and its parent corporation got unusually high salaries and frequent calls directing them to make specific contributions . 
The committee also has summoned Mr. Wall 's predecessor , Edwin Gray . 
, '' and he is n't expected to back down even though the five senators have disputed his account of a 1987 meeting . 
even though the five senators have disputed his account of a 1987 meeting . 
So the senators must brace themselves . 
. 
. 
, but during a stop in Italy Ms. Volokh dropped $ 80 on a black velvet suit . 
. 
But I loved turbans . '' -RRB- 
. 
Now , for example , she owns 48 hats . 
However , she remembers the lean years and recalls with relish wearing her first major American purchase -- that turban 10 years later and having a Los Angeles boutique owner ask her if it was a Chanel . 
, but I had to make them and my dresses . 
. 
, because it is at the end of the day . '' 
but I just moved it . 
She also frequently invites directors , producers , actors , writers and other show business people for `` coffee and clips in the pleasure dome . '' 
only if she could guide it editorially as well . 
And she has this inexhaustible energy . 
, then she 'll have us make it work . '' 
In fact , Ms. Volokh was n't just a rich lady who needed a hobby . 
, though she herself stopped eating lunch a few years ago to drop 25 pounds . 
so it works -RRB- , she introduces each chapter with appropriate quotations from Russian literature : Pushkin on blini , Goncharov on piroghi . 
`` But we should n't leave out political reasons , number one . 
when you live those double and triple lives . '' 
, whom she had divorced 38 years earlier . 
, and they moved to Los Angeles . 
, but Ms. Volokh refused the obvious and available occupation - as translator for a Russian who spoke fluent English . 
, then went to work for a fund-raising organization . 
. 
, and you have to be prepared to make a big commitment , '' Mr. Forrester says . 
But while U.S. interest may be big and growing , the difficulties that have stymied deals in the past show no sign of abating . 
. 
And some foreign firms are finding that even when they manage to overcome such hurdles , their ventures now have to be endorsed by such unpredictable bodies as the Soviet parliament and the governments of the nation 's republics . 
. 
, and officials say many are likely to be scaled back or dropped . 
Talking to a small group of U.S. executives afterwards , Mr. Gorbachev appeared impatient for a big expansion in U.S.-Soviet trade , which now amounts to a meager $ 3 billion annually . 
According to several people present at the meeting , Mr. Gorbachev also supported the idea of concluding several commercial accords with the U.S. , possibly at his next summit meeting with President Bush . 
And unruly crowds at RJR Nabisco Inc. 's booth almost knocked over a glass showcase in the rush to get a free Camel cigarette sticker . 
But the current Soviet purchasing spree may be a one-time affair . 
. 
International competition for the few Soviet goods that can be sold on world markets is heating up , however . 
Westinghouse Electric Corp. also won a $ 75.5 million Navy contract for nuclear propulsion parts . 
It also opens a rift in the bank 's shareholders ' syndicate that could lead to a battle for control of the concern . 
when it completes its scheduled merger with Banca Cattolica del Venetoen by year end . 
, which was nonetheless approved by a majority of shareholders . 
, but analysts estimate the company 's debt at A$ 1.2 billion . 
Mr. Skase also said the restructuring plan calls for the merger of Qintex Australia with Qintex Ltd. , which owns 55 % of Qintex Australia . 
, '' but he did n't provide details of the merger . 
after the Australian Stock Exchange suspended trading in shares of Qintex Australia and Qintex Ltd. because the companies had n't answered an exchange inquiry about the extent of their loans , investments and deposits at Qintex Entertainment . 
Ltd. because the companies had n't answered an exchange inquiry about the extent of their loans , investments and deposits at Qintex Entertainment . 
Qintex Australia also said it has an investment of A$ 83.3 million in Qintex Entertainment shares . 
. 
, and Qintex Australia has threatened a countersuit . 
Mr. Skase also disclosed a disagreement among directors of Qintex Australia over certain fees claimed by Qintex Group Management Services Pty. , a management-services concern in which Qintex Australia executives have an interest . 
, but a smaller portion is owed to senior executives and others for management services . 
Two of the directors resigned , Mr. Skase said , so the payments have n't yet been approved . 
even when the power is off . 
if they are n't fed a steady diet of electricity , so they need external power supplies . 
-- their data disappear if they are n't fed a steady diet of electricity , so they need external power supplies . 
because the technology is n't fully refined . 
But Ramtron of Colorado Springs , Colo. , plans to start shipping commercial quantities of simple ferroelectric chips in December . 
. 
because they require fewer manufacturing steps than conventional chips . 
, National says , because ferroelectric chips resist atomic radiation . 
And while today 's non-volatile chips -- such as electronically erasable programmable read-only memory chips -- ca n't be used in a computer 's central memory because they `` learn '' data slowly , ferroelectric chips accept data at very high speeds . 
. 
because they `` learn '' data slowly , ferroelectric chips accept data at very high speeds . 
And telephone or videotape depositions just do n't match physical encounters . 
And it is preparing to set up shop in Chicago , New York and 10 other cities where court-reporting agencies can tie conference rooms into the network . 
. 
But last year Hitachi Ltd. surprised Japan 's electronics industry when it accused Korea 's Samsung Electronics Co. of using Hitachi technology to make dynamic random-access memory chips . 
when it accused Korea 's Samsung Electronics Co. of using Hitachi technology to make dynamic random-access memory chips . 
And Hitachi went on the offensive against the U.S. 's Motorola Inc. earlier this month with a suit charging that Motorola 's new MC88200 chip infringes on a Hitachi patent . 
after Motorola sued Hitachi for patent violation . 
if it had n't been actively repurchasing its shares , thus increasing its interest expense and reducing its interest income . 
, thus increasing its interest expense and reducing its interest income . 
, but `` it 's not enough to offset the problems at Radio Shack . '' 
As a result , Mr. Telzrow said he cut his fiscal 1990 per-share earnings estimate for Tandy to $ 4.05 from $ 4.20 . 
Barry Bryant , an analyst with Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. , said Tandy also has suffered from lethargic sales of its computers aimed at the home and small-office market , which are less-advanced and cheaper than computers aimed at the corporate market . 
. 
if they might later become troubled because Drexel risked losing its highly lucrative junk franchise . 
if they might later become troubled because Drexel risked losing its highly lucrative junk franchise . 
because Drexel risked losing its highly lucrative junk franchise . 
And investors and traders alike say the current turmoil could take years to resolve . 
. 
, and it could take years before it 's over , '' says Mark Bachmann , a senior vice president at Standard & Poor 's Corp. , a credit rating company . 
before it 's over , '' says Mark Bachmann , a senior vice president at Standard & Poor 's Corp. , a credit rating company . 
In the third quarter , for example , junk bonds -- those with less than an investment-grade rating -- showed negative returns , the only major sector of the bond market to do so . 
as issuers have stumbled under the weight of hefty interest payments . 
as buyers disappeared and investors tried to sell . 
and investors tried to sell . 
, and we 're going to make sure our default rates are going to be in the acceptable parameters of the market . '' 
, while new buyers have n't materialized to replace them . 
Mutual funds have also been net sellers of junk bonds as junk 's relatively poor performance and negative press coverage have produced `` above-normal '' redemptions by shareholders , Deltec said . 
as junk 's relatively poor performance and negative press coverage have produced `` above-normal '' redemptions by shareholders , Deltec said . 
And , Deltec said , buying has been severely reduced because savings and loans have been restricted in their junk purchases by recently passed congressional legislation . 
because savings and loans have been restricted in their junk purchases by recently passed congressional legislation . 
`` In fact , savings and loans were sellers of high yield holdings throughout the quarter , '' Deltec said . 
Meanwhile , Prudential , the nation 's largest insurer and the biggest investor in junk bonds , has seen the value of its junk bond portfolio drop to $ 6.5 billion from $ 7 billion since August because of falling junk prices . 
, and it 's something to be concerned about , '' says James A. Gregoire , a managing director . 
, but this market has a knack for surprising us . 
, says Stuart Reese , manager of Aetna Life & Casualty Insurance Co. 's $ 17 billion investment-grade public bond portfolio . 
as if they were in trouble , says Stuart Reese , manager of Aetna Life & Casualty Insurance Co. 's $ 17 billion investment-grade public bond portfolio . 
`` But we think the risks are there for things getting a lot worse . And the risks are n't appropriate for us , '' he says . 
And the risks are n't appropriate for us , '' he says . 
because credit ratings have declined , '' says Paul Asquith , associate professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology 's Sloan School of Management . 
when it was disclosed last April , says this year 's junk bond defaults already show a high correlation with his own findings . 
, but it also is n't a disaster as the doomsayers say . '' 
, but it also is n't a disaster as the doomsayers say . '' 
During the past three weeks , for example , Drexel has sold $ 1.3 billion of new junk bonds for Turner Broadcasting Co. , Uniroyal Chemical , Continental Air and Duff & Phelps . 
Still , the list of troubled Drexel bond offerings dwarfs that of any firm on Wall Street , as does its successful offerings . 
`` But the deals that never should have been brought have now become nuclear waste . 
. 
Then , flashing a diamond ring as big as the Ritz -LRB- `` my day diamond , darling '' -RRB- , she told her two companions that she is on the `` board '' of the Vatican Museum in Rome . 
But Mrs. Boehm did n't mention any of them . 
and which are not . 
But the truth is that almost everyone , from real-estate agents to city fathers , name-drops ; and a surprising number of people have an ancient uncle who claims he lived next door to the cartoonist who did the Katzenjammer Kids . 
; and a surprising number of people have an ancient uncle who claims he lived next door to the cartoonist who did the Katzenjammer Kids . 
as society becomes more complex and alienating , '' says Herbert Freudenberger , a New York psychoanalyst , with a high-powered clientele . 
, when all of a sudden I saw a woman 's backside coming up the steps on the second floor and she was wearing sequined slacks . 
and she was wearing sequined slacks . 
, so I followed her into the ladies room and sure enough , it was Liza . 
and sure enough , it was Liza . 
So I said , ` Hello . ' 
And she said , ` Hello . ' 
, even if they do n't really know them , '' says Dr. Freudenberger . 
, and while it may occasionally get me into trouble , it 's also gotten me access to parties and society , '' he says . 
, '' he says . 
, it 's also gotten me access to parties and society , '' he says . 
, but he drops so many good names , we decided to let him stay , '' says Steven Greenberg , publisher of Fame . 
And Beauregard was mentioned twice -- although very briefly and in passing . '' 
-- although very briefly and in passing . '' 
, but I 'm not sure '' -RRB- and Bridget Fonda , the actress -LRB- `` She knows me , but we 're not really the best of friends '' -RRB- . 
, but we 're not really the best of friends '' -RRB- . 
before attending a party . 
but no one really knows , '' says Mr. Revson . 
But name-dropping has other benefits , often civic . 
because its once heavily polluted Cuyahoga River caught fire , because former Mayor Ralph Perk set his hair on fire with an acetylene torch and because its proposed Rock 'n' Roll Hall of Fame was recently refused an urban-development grant . 
because its once heavily polluted Cuyahoga River caught fire , because former Mayor Ralph Perk set his hair on fire with an acetylene torch and because its proposed Rock 'n' Roll Hall of Fame was recently refused an urban-development grant . 
and because its proposed Rock 'n' Roll Hall of Fame was recently refused an urban-development grant . 
because its once heavily polluted Cuyahoga River caught fire , because former Mayor Ralph Perk set his hair on fire with an acetylene torch and because its proposed Rock 'n' Roll Hall of Fame was recently refused an urban-development grant . 
and that comedian Bob Hope 's father , a stonemason , once worked on a church next to Severence Hall , Cleveland 's main concert hall . 
because the late actor Erroll Flynn once lived there . 
, '' says Mr. Rambo , noting that Flynn 's house has been bulldozed , and only the swimming pool remains . 
, and only the swimming pool remains . 
And some even do it with malice aforethought . 
. 
`` But it does get him to return my calls , and it makes me feel better for the times he 's given me the brushoff , '' Mr. Kessler says . 
, and it makes me feel better for the times he 's given me the brushoff , '' Mr. Kessler says . 
and you 're dead in the water , '' says Mr. Thal . 
. 
And her husband sometimes calls her `` Ducky . '' 
`` But call her ` Patty , ' and it 's a sure giveaway you 're not in her circle , because she does n't use that name , '' says Joan Kron , editor-in-chief of Avenue magazine , a monthly publication sent to all the right names . 
, ' and it 's a sure giveaway you 're not in her circle , because she does n't use that name , '' says Joan Kron , editor-in-chief of Avenue magazine , a monthly publication sent to all the right names . 
, because she does n't use that name , '' says Joan Kron , editor-in-chief of Avenue magazine , a monthly publication sent to all the right names . 
because they only drop `` mere names , '' says Mr. Churchill . 
Currently writing his memoirs , Mr. Churchill , an artist , tells how tycoons such as the late Jean Paul Getty , the oil billionnaire , were , in fact , known only by one initial , their last . 
. ' 
and you know who you mean . 
But no one else does . 
, if you know what I mean . 
, and that people will simply ignore new models that lack a well-defined image . 
while still retaining links to the parent company 's quality image . 
, and the consumer may have to work harder to cut through it , '' says Vincent P. Barabba , executive director of market research and planning at General Motors Corp . 
`` But the reward is that there 's less need to make tradeoffs '' in choosing one 's wheels . 
, but it 's far more extensive than when Alfred P. Sloan Jr. conceived the idea 50 years ago . 
because the U.S. is the world 's biggest and richest market for automobiles ; virtually every auto maker wants to sell here . 
, and next year GM 's long-awaited Saturn cars will make their debut . 
But slow sales forced Ford to kill the brand just last week . 
. 
, but age seems to be the best predictor . 
-- even though older buyers , because of their incomes , are more likely to actually purchase a luxury car . 
even though many Americans believe differences between imported and domestic cars are diminishing . 
On the other hand , only 42 % say foreign cars are less comfortable than U.S. models , down from 55 % in 1987 . 
, '' declares Thomas Mignanelli , executive vice president for Nissan 's U.S. sales operations . 
But out on Cobb Parkway , Ted Negas sees it differently . 
Thus the very fickleness of baby boomers may make it possible to win them back , just as it was possible to lose them . 
, so they get quicker service . 
even if they carry a medium or high price tag . 
In contrast , dashboard computers , power seats and turbo-charged engines had little appeal . 
But even a little appeal has a lot of attraction these days . 
, even though it expects to sell only about 4,000 cars equipped with that option . 
, and just 1 % of that market exceeded Polaroid Co. 's sales of $ 1.86 billion . 
? '' 
: A two-foot tall Sago can retail for $ 1,000 , and taller ones often fetch $ 3,000 or more . 
, and taller ones often fetch $ 3,000 or more . 
before something frightened them off , foiled . 
and telling nurseries to be on the lookout for anyone trying to palm one off . 
But for those Californians who want exotic gardens out front where neighbors can appreciate them , there 's always Harold Smith 's approach . 
, '' he says proudly . 
`` And you ca n't cut this chain with bolt cutters . 
because it can create abrupt price swings in the stock market . 
, but most of the firm 's activity involved portfolio trading strategies other than stock-index arbitrage . 
Overall , Salomon reported program trading volume of 75.2 million shares . 
It also charges that Imperial , the holding company for Imperial Savings & Loan , experienced major losses and writedowns because of improper assessment of the risks of junk-bond investments and wholesale consumer loan packages . 
. 
In a separate complaint also filed in federal court here , shareholder Max Grill of New York charged Imperial , its top executives and directors with breach of fiduciary duty and squandering the company 's assets . 
Otherwise , actual profit is compared with the 300-day estimate . 
The move also helps the Rochester , N.Y. , photographic giant ensure that its motion-picture film business -- for which it holds a virtual monopoly , supplying every Hollywood movie company -- is n't made obsolete by the upstart HDTV business . 
. 
once consumers begin replacing their TV sets with HDTVs . 
And only a handful of small U.S. companies are engaged in high-definition software development . 
Otherwise , they 'd be watching programs that are no different in quality from what they currently view on color TVs . 
, but it 's estimated the machine may be available within two years . 
And the potential market is tremendous , industry experts say . 
, known in the industry as telecines . 
And Mr. Niles , the program producer , contends that Kodak 's move is `` a sound marketing decision . They ca n't afford to stay out of HDTV . '' 
Indeed , the stakes are high . 
And the sets are wider , resembling the dimensions of a movie screen . 
But the financial rewards are n't expected soon , nor are they guaranteed . 
, nor are they guaranteed . 
Nevertheless , Kodak could n't risk letting HDTV turn its motion-picture film business into a dinosaur . 
But this time it 's hurting opposition as well as ruling-party members . 
And as it unfolds , it 's revealing some of the more tangled and seamier aspects of Japanese society . 
. 
But the scandal itself is so convoluted that ruling-party members are divided between those who want to pursue the matter in hope of undermining the opposition and those who favor leaving well enough alone . 
because everyone already figures the LDP is that kind of beast , '' says Shigezo Hayasaka , former aide to LDP kingmaker Kakuei Tanaka and now an independent analyst . 
But , he adds , `` We ca n't tell where it will go at all because we 're still in the middle of it . '' 
because we 're still in the middle of it . '' 
But the implications could be great . 
, and political donations may have been made with the intent to bribe . 
Also , about 60 % of pachinko parlor owners are Korean , many of whom maintain close ties with North or South Korean residents ' organizations , and donations by such foreign groups are illegal in Japan . 
, and donations by such foreign groups are illegal in Japan . 
since it took root as cheap entertainment in the years after World War II . 
But the total of all those pinging balls has created an industry with a reported annual income of 13 trillion yen -LRB- almost $ 92 billion -RRB- , or nearly the size of Japan 's vaunted automobile industry . 
And because the pachinko industry is regularly at the top of annual lists for tax evasion , some observers estimate the real income could be as much as 20 trillion yen . 
. 
. 
Then , in 1988 , a proposal to keep better track of income by selling prepaid cards for pachinko was fielded in parliament . 
while South Koreans , Japanese and Taiwanese accept it or are neutral . 
, or it may have been laundering money back and forth between the JSP and the North Korean residents ' organization , the Chosen Soren . 
And at first , neither the opposition nor the LDP wanted to pursue the issue . 
But the press kept it alive ; as with the Recruit scandal , lists began circulating with names of people who had received money . 
So far , though , there have been no allegations that the contributions the LDP members received amounted to bribes . 
Then the two camps upped the ante : Reports that Chosen Soren had donated directly to JSP members were rapidly countered by statements that the South Korean residents ' organization had long been donating directly to LDP members . 
because the groups are defined as foreign , but both groups deny making direct donations . 
, but both groups deny making direct donations . 
because although the organizations represent Korean residents , those residents were largely born and raised in Japan and many speak only Japanese . 
. 
But LDP members and supporters of the prepaid card idea tend to speak in innuendo about the JSP 's alleged donations , implying that North Korean money would be more suspect than South Korean because North Korea is communist and South Korea is an ally . 
because North Korea is communist and South Korea is an ally . 
. 
, and she was adamant about his attending . 
`` But once Perlman started playing , I did n't give a damn about basketball ... . 
... . 
Afterwards , I went home and practiced for three hours . '' 
Yet Mr. McDuffie 's career has developed at a slower pace than those of some of his better known contemporaries . 
while still a student ; Cho-Liang Lin , who joined the roster of ICM Artists Inc. at the age of 18 ; and Nadja Salerno-Sonnenberg , who launched her career by winning the 1981 Naumberg Competition . 
`` But I was n't ready for a career at that time . '' 
until I got to Juilliard . '' 
. 
`` But she was always encouraging . 
after Mr. McDuffie gave an ambitious student recital and was feeling rather pleased with himself . 
`` We listened to the Chausson ` Poeme , ' '' he recalls , `` and she said , ` You hear the first note , that B-flat ? That 's the only note that 's truly in tune ... ' . '' 
, '' he says , `` because she taught me how to listen . 
. '' 
It was also at Juilliard that Mr. McDuffie discovered his predilection for conservative , 20th-century American composers such as David Diamond and Samuel Barber . 
. 
, but what he said was important because it 's not in the score . 
because it 's not in the score . 
if he heard me say that -- throughout the first movement ... 
, and I played it that way , kind of gigue-like . 
And he yelled out ` dolce ! dolce ! ' -LCB- ` sweet ! sweet ! ' -RCB- . '' 
`` So we did it over , '' he adds . 
. 
. 
By contrast , he 's won kudos for his espousal of William Schuman 's `` Violin Concerto , '' which he recently recorded for Angel\/EMI along with Leonard Bernstein 's engaging `` Serenade for Violin Solo , Strings and Percussion . '' 
But there are ample rewards in its plaintive slow sections and virtuoso fireworks for soloist , brass and timpani . 
. 
, then all the hard work has been worth it . '' 
, and , if they 're right , the whole economy as well as the spendthrifts among us could be hurt . 
. 
and deficit-racked governments ca n't readily take up the slack . 
And another wave of bad loans would further batter many already-shaky lending institutions . 
, but inflation-adjusted consumer installment credit has surged 66 % . 
And the ratio of installment debt to disposable personal income -- personal income after taxes -- has hit a high of about 18 1\/2 % . 
However , these figures do n't seem to worry Thomas A. Durkin , an economist at the Federal Reserve Board . 
, and growth in this cycle is very typical of earlier experiences . '' 
. '' 
But what about the debt burden ? 
And , `` more importantly , '' he says , `` the debt burden measured other ways is not really in uncharted waters . '' 
, and such debt as a percent of household assets is little changed . 
Moreover , the burden of consumer credit payments relative to disposable income may be `` lower in this cycle than earlier , '' Mr. Durkin says . 
In addition , he says , `` longer maturities on automobile and other forms of installment credit boost the stock of debt faster than the flow of repayments and the accompanying payment burden . '' 
And if you `` consider the changing distribution of credit , '' Mr. Durkin says , `` much of the increase in debt in recent years is due to increasing credit use by higher-income families , '' that is , `` those probably best able to handle it . '' 
. '' 
, but the proportion rises to 16 % of homeowners in the $ 45,000-$60,000 income range and 23 % of homeowners with income above $ 60,000 . '' 
And much home-equity credit is used conservatively . 
So , it is n't surprising that consumer-credit delinquencies at banks remain , as the chart shows , reassuringly below some earlier highs -LRB- see accompanying illustration -- WSJ Oct. 23 , 1989 -RRB- . 
, but so far the current levels of consumer debt do n't seem to loom as a major threat . 
In fact , the current weakness in auto buying and department-store sales and the gradual upturn in the household saving rate suggest that consumers , conservative as ever , are already clutching their purses a bit more tightly . 
`` As a result , household debt appears to be stabilizing at around 63 % of GNP . '' 
, but its financial profile is closely guarded by members of the founding family . 
, but rather men like Christopher Reeve , star of the `` Superman '' movies , talking about their lingerie turn-ons . 
and clearly -LCB- Maidenform -RCB- is a force to be reckoned with , '' says David S. Leibowitz , a special situations analyst at American Securities Corp. in New York . 
, '' he said . 
. 
Warnaco also owns Warners , another major intimate apparel maker . 
But Maidenform officials say that after spending 24 years at Maidenform , Mr. Lesk , 48 , made it clear he wanted the top job . 
. 
, '' says James Mogan , 45 , who was named senior vice president of sales , assuming some of the responsibilities of Mr. Lesk . 
And last year , Playtex Holdings Inc. went private for about $ 680 million . 
It was then split into Playtex Apparel Inc. , the intimate apparel division , and Playtex Family Products Corp. , which makes tampons , hair-care items and other products . 
Publicly traded VF Corp. , which owns Vanity Fair , and Sara Lee Corp. , which owns Bali Co. , are also strong forces in intimate apparel . 
, says Executive Vice President David C. Masket , but they are n't taken very seriously . 
, Mr. Masket says . 
. 
, but the company has quietly opened a retail store of its own in Omaha , Neb. , and has 24 factory outlets , with plans to add more . 
. 
. 
, a Western government report says , unless imports are cut drastically to help narrow the balance-of-payments deficit . 
. 
if its reserves cover three months of its imports . 
only if import growth drops to below 5 % per annum . '' 
But before import growth slowed , China 's buying spree in the first half already had taken its toll on foreign-exchange reserves . 
. 
if it acts as forcefully as it did to arrest the 1985 decline , when Beijing slammed the brakes on foreign-exchange spending and devalued the currency . 
But this time , China faces a more difficult battle because of economic forces that have come into play since the Tiananmen Square killings June 4 . 
For example , China 's hard-currency income is expected to suffer from the big drop in tourist arrivals since June 4 . 
, and the current-account deficit widens to $ 13.1 billion . 
. 
But since June , foreign bankers led by international financial institutions have virtually suspended their new loans to China . 
. 
In addition , economists are forecasting a slowdown in foreign direct investments as businessmen become increasingly wary of China 's deteriorating political and economic environment . 
as businessmen become increasingly wary of China 's deteriorating political and economic environment . 
But in either case , the report says , China 's balance of payments would rapidly dry up foreign reserves , which are used to finance the imbalance . 
, and in the second they would be wiped out in 1991 . 
Roche also said it expects a `` considerable rise '' in 1989 group profit from the 641.5 million-franc -LRB- $ 396 million -RRB- net in 1988 . 
when both jets on his Falcon 20 flamed out . 
But knowing that mechanics would probably ground him for repairs , Mr. Brown skipped his stop in nearby Chicago and set course to get his load -- a few hundred parcels -- to the Memphis package-sorting hub on time . 
But he flies for Federal Express Corp. , perhaps the closest thing in corporate America to the Green Berets . 
It has also rattled Federal 's strongly anti-union management , which is already contending with melding far-flung operations and with falling profits . 
, and it has to have a victory , '' Frederick W. Smith , Federal 's chairman and chief executive , says with disdain . 
. 
He also lets workers vent steam through an elaborate grievance procedure and , as a perk , fly free in empty cockpit seats . 
And , with many of his 70,000 workers , Mr. Smith 's damn-the-torpedoes attitude has caught on . 
But though couriers work as many as 60 hours a week during the autumn rush , they leave early during slack times while still being assured of a minimum paycheck . 
while still being assured of a minimum paycheck . 
while still being assured of a minimum paycheck . 
The operational freedom has also given Federal a leg up on archrival United Parcel Service Inc. , the nation 's largest employer of United Brotherhood of Teamsters members . 
, but , according to Mr. Cleveland , a former UPS employee , and others , union work rules prohibit UPS drivers from doing more than carrying packages between customers and their vans . 
. 
. 
, it also has brought problems . 
when planes were grounded . 
as Federal bought several local companies , only to have the managers quit . 
Federal 's stock price , however , has held up well , driven in part by the general run-up of airline stocks , analysts say . 
. 
But from early on , Tiger 's workers unionized , while Federal 's never have . 
, while Federal 's never have . 
. 
. 
He then made most of the changes , pilots say . 
That sort of approach , however , has n't worked since the addition of Tiger . 
Soon after the merger , moreover , Federal 's management asked Tiger 's pilots to sign an agreement stating that they could be fired any time , without cause or notice . 
. 
And even some pro-union pilots say his charisma and popularity among the many former military fliers could be tough to beat . 
if Tiger 's pilots had n't been protected , he said . 
Furthermore , Mr. Smith added , `` our contract with our pilots says that we will manage our fleet operations with their advice . 
Meanwhile , the company is operating with two separate pilot groups and seniority lists , and that is costing Federal `` a big number , '' says James Barksdale , executive vice president and chief operating officer . 
, and that is costing Federal `` a big number , '' says James Barksdale , executive vice president and chief operating officer . 
The issue has also cost Federal management a lot of good will among its old pilots . 
because we had n't shown any moxie , any resistance , '' says William Queenan , a DC-10 pilot and 14-year Federal veteran . 
But though most of the 1,087 Federal pilots are believed opposed , it is unclear just how much their loyalty to Mr. Smith has been eroded . 
. 
while flying across the country . 
And for now , at least , the competition is n't the only enemy . 
when they break down or are damaged , and an option for 16 more . 
because it marked the first time a federal official was impeached and removed from office on charges of which a jury had acquitted him . 
. 
Instead , they argued that impeachment aims to protect public institutions from people who have abused their positions of trust , irrespective of the outcome of prior criminal or civil cases . 
, then quickly left the chamber . 
. 
. '' 
What next for the crusty FBI agent with the heart of gold ? 
There are plenty of worse inspirations for shows -- and most of them had already made the fall lineup : a nun raising some lovable orphans . A den mother raising some lovable teen models . A bunch of tans and bathing suits posing as lovable lifeguards . 
. 
: 
-LRB- In last week 's rape case , for example , the girl turns out to have been a victim of incest , and the biggest villains are the politicians who exploit the case . -RRB- 
, and the biggest villains are the politicians who exploit the case . -RRB- 
Most of all though , the show is redeemed by the character of Mancuso . 
, we discover , when he was assigned to the civil rights movement back in the 1960s . 
, and two cleaned his house . '' 
And when he 's told `` Try a little tenderness , '' he shoots back `` I 'm going home to try a little linguine . '' 
. '' 
Yet for all his cynicism , he 's at heart a closet idealist , a softy with a secret crush on truth , justice and the American Way . 
: 
If `` Mancuso FBI '' has an intriguing central character , it also has a major flaw : It 's wildly overwritten . 
-- and someone always worries , `` What if the press gets a hold of this ? '' 
and you are out on a park bench , mister . '' 
Finally , of course , the boss gives in , but he 's still yelling : `` I find myself explaining anything to Teddy Kennedy , you 'll be chasing stolen cars in Anchorage . '' 
, but he 's still yelling : `` I find myself explaining anything to Teddy Kennedy , you 'll be chasing stolen cars in Anchorage . '' 
In fact , throughout `` Mancuso FBI , '' we do n't get words or lines -- we get speeches . 
And Mancuso himself is investigating at the top of his lungs : `` How the hell can you live with yourself ? '' he erupts at a politician . `` You twist people 's trust . You built your career on prejudice and hate . The scars will be here years after the polls close . '' 
years after the polls close . '' 
when people like you turn the world into a big toxic waste dump ? 
... and what you did was n't just a murder -- it was a crime against humanity . '' 
And , at least once a show , someone delivers the line `` Get off that soapbox . '' 
, and they 're ruining it . 
, tearing down drapes , smashing walls ? 
, but he 's too choked up to get the words out . 
, then turns and walks away . 
, and Robert Loggia 's acting resonated in the silence . 
. 
! 
Texaco has also been attempting to sell oil properties . 
before it completed those sales because Tana 's properties are high quality and near other fields Texaco already owns , a company spokeswoman said . 
because Tana 's properties are high quality and near other fields Texaco already owns , a company spokeswoman said . 
because much of its effort had for years been focused on its brawl with Pennzoil and then on New York investor Carl C. Icahn 's attempt to take over the company . 
if necessary to repel a raider . 
Amid heavy buying of shares in Belgium 's largest insurer , Maurice Lippens also warned in an interview that a white knight , in buying out a raider , could leave speculators with big losses on their AG stock . 
and which itself is controlled by Cie . Financiere de Suez , the acquisitive French financial conglomerate . 
But Mr. Lippens said a rescue also could involve Asahi Mutual Life Insurance Co. , which owns 5 % of AG . 
But Mr. Lippens said a rescue also could involve Asahi Mutual Life Insurance Co. , which owns 5 % of AG . 
But he estimated that a raider would have been able to amass no more than 4 % of the shares in recent months . 
, Mr. Lippens said , and members have agreed to give one another the right of first refusal should they sell any AG shares . 
, and does it have enough clout , to do its job of coordinating foreign policy ? 
So , following both the style he pursued as President Ford 's national security adviser and the recommendations of the Tower Commission , Gen. Scowcroft has pruned the NSC staff and tried to ensure that it sticks to its assigned tasks -- namely , gathering the views of the State Department , Pentagon and intelligence community ; serving as an honest broker in distilling that information for the president and then making sure presidential decisions are carried out . 
and then making sure presidential decisions are carried out . 
However , the Panama episode has raised questions about whether the NSC staff is sufficiently big , diverse and powerful to coordinate U.S. policy on tough issues . 
because policy makers sensed a need , in an increasingly complex world , for a formal system within the White House to make sure that communications flowed smoothly between the president and the State Department , Pentagon and intelligence agencies . 
In practice , the director of central intelligence and chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff also serve as unofficial members . 
But the size , shape and role of the NSC staff have been left for each president and his national security adviser to decide . 
But one clear problem during the coup attempt was that the NSC staffer most experienced in Latin America , Everett Briggs , was gone . 
, and Mr. Gates has spent years studying Soviet politics and society . 
But neither has an extensive background in Latin America , the Middle East or Asia . 
In those areas , the role of NSC staffers under them therefore have become more important . 
But just as every previous NSC adviser has , Gen. Scowcroft now will have to mull at what point the NSC staff becomes too lean and too restrained . 
Sperry ultimately was eliminated from the competition without receiving the work . 
Documents filed by prosecutors also indicate that Mr. Lavelle and his fellow conspirators requested and obtained `` approval of the scheme '' from more-senior Sperry officials `` because the payment which -LCB- Mr . -RCB- Tomlin requested was so large . '' 
`` because the payment which -LCB- Mr . -RCB- Tomlin requested was so large . '' 
as he roamed the country promoting his books , which dispense handy how-to advice on using government information for fun and profit . 
And in addition to the $ 5,000 , he has promised the winner a `` My Favorite Bureaucrat '' plaque and offered each of two runners-up $ 500 . 
So far , though , Mr. Lesko has received only one entry . 
as he goes , has determined that bureaucrats are eligible for nomination by other bureaucrats . 
But he says he would prefer to get nominations from rank-and-file folks . 
But Mr. Lesko 's staff is beginning to wonder whether there is n't some larger phenomenon foiling the contest . 
. '' 
after Ford officials concluded that the cost to modernize Saab 's car operations would outweigh the likely return . 
Saab , meanwhile , is left to continue its search for an ally to shore up its sagging car business . 
as it became clear that the Swedish auto maker 's automotive operations had little to offer in the way of image or technology . 
In addition , Ford and Saab had discussed a possible link between their heavy truck operations . 
But the talks on a heavy truck alliance apparently did n't go far . 
Meanwhile , Ford officials became convinced they could n't expect to recover the investment it would require to make Saab 's cars competitive in the increasingly crowded luxury market . 
Overall , Saab-Scania 's pretax profit during the first eight months of the year plunged 48.9 % to 1 billion Swedish kronor -LRB- $ 155.1 million -RRB- from 1.96 billion kronor -LRB- $ 303.9 million -RRB- a year earlier . 
But the talks yielded `` nothing so advanced that we needed to make a public announcement about it , '' he said . 
Ford faces an uphill fight for Jaguar , however . 
GM , meanwhile , is hosting a delegation of members of the British Parliament who are touring the auto maker 's headquarter operations in Detroit . 
But Ford clearly views Jaguar as a prize worth fighting for , since the company 's gilded brand image would give Ford a badly needed leg up in the high end of the luxury markets in both Europe and the U.S. . 
, since the company 's gilded brand image would give Ford a badly needed leg up in the high end of the luxury markets in both Europe and the U.S. . 
when it was forced to abandon a four-year-old effort to market its German-built Scorpio sedan in the U.S. as a luxury import under the Merkur brand name . 
So despite the GM-Jaguar romance , analysts say Ford by last Friday had boosted its Jaguar holding to about 11 % of the luxury auto maker 's shares outstanding from 10.4 % early last week . 
, and Jaguar shares moved up 19 pence to 696 pence -LRB- $ 11 -RRB- . 
as the team bounds up to the scrimmage line . 
and the other pays more . 
. 
. 
And as for Tom Landry , well , in Mr. Jones 's mind , he had played out his winning years . 
, he says . 
So it was n't surprising that Mr. Jones returned to his Arkansas roots when he went looking for a replacement for Mr. Landry . 
when he went looking for a replacement for Mr. Landry . 
In fact , the last time they played this badly was in 1960 , their opening season . 
But the general trend , given rising costs in the league , has been to raise prices , and Mr. Jones is expected to eventually follow suit . 
, and Mr. Jones is expected to eventually follow suit . 
. '' 
Mr. Jones has also beefed up his marketing staff to sell the 118 luxury suites topping Texas Stadium -LRB- his deal with Bum Bright included operating rights for the stadium -RRB- . 
. 
The team additionally earns between $ 2 million and $ 4 million for local radio and television broadcast rights . 
He is also trying to get more stations in Mexico , where the Cowboys have a following , to pick up the games . 
. 
, but each player would apparently be paid a base salary keyed to his position and ability . 
The NFL Players Association , meanwhile , contends that athletes are paid a wage commensurate with their ability to draw fans , and that some owners are in financial trouble because of poor business management , not players ' salaries . 
, and that some owners are in financial trouble because of poor business management , not players ' salaries . 
In Chicago , for example , size is the issue . 
, and only a small number can be accommodated . '' 
. '' 
This year , the NFL also imposed an 80-player limit on teams going into training camp , down from 120 , in a move meant to trim payroll costs . 
And the league is trying to get more for its three-year national network contract , which expires after this season . 
An NFL spokesman also says the league will probably expand its offerings to cable TV companies like ESPN . 
, and the battle has produced a form of organizational gridlock . 
, and his work style seems to support that . 
, '' he explains . 
. '' 
Besides , to a large extent , Mr. Jones may already be getting what he wants out of the team , even though it keeps losing . 
, even though it keeps losing . 
because it presents only one view . 
But his complaint that `` Days of Rage '' does n't contain balanced comments from Israelis about how badly the Palestinians are behaving is irrelevant . 
. 
once a pending deficit-cutting measure has been signed into law . 
, but a price was n't disclosed . 
Richard Breeden , the new chairman of the SEC , has n't taken a formal position on the bill , which would also require investors to disclose large trades and give the SEC additional authority during market emergencies . 
However , he recently told the Senate Banking Committee that he believes the agency should have explicit authority to monitor debt levels at holding companies and affiliates of broker-dealers , which are frequently used to issue bridge loans . 
. 
But some Wall Street executives argue that such fears are unwarranted . 
First Boston , whose holding company , CS First Boston Group , is one of the larger issuers of bridge loans on Wall Street , said it is also concerned that once the SEC has the power to monitor holding companies , it will try to regulate their activities . 
. 
because the likely consequence would be to weaken , rather than strengthen the control the SEC has exercised for 50 years over the financial adequacy and viability of broker-dealers , '' Michael Raoul-Duval , managing director of First Boston , said in an interview . 
because the likely consequence would be to weaken , rather than strengthen the control the SEC has exercised for 50 years over the financial adequacy and viability of broker-dealers , '' Michael Raoul-Duval , managing director of First Boston , said in an interview . 
while addressing the SEC 's concerns may be possible . 
but that it is `` hopeful a compromise can be reached to achieve the SEC 's goals . '' 
, consequently I 've become familiar not only with Cuban art and artists , but also with Cuban bureaucrats and their counterparts in our own government . 
In fact , the generation of painters growing into maturity right now works with such profoundly held humanist assumptions and such passionate commitment to moral and ethical principles that it makes Che Guevara 's famous linkages of art , idealism and revolution seem modest . 
However , unacceptable though those occurrences may have been , they still provide no excuse for wholesale departures from truth . 
, they still provide no excuse for wholesale departures from truth . 
, they still provide no excuse for wholesale departures from truth . 
, since they are motivated to act based on their own circumstances . 
-LRB- as we well know -RRB- , and it is even worse folly to merge the clearly divergent agendas of Fidel and the military and the state bureaucracy . 
Mr. Asman is also annoyed that Mr. Castro has resisted collaboration with U.S. officials , even though by his own account that collaboration has been devised essentially as a mechanism for acts directly hostile to the Cuban regime , such as facilitating defections . 
, even though by his own account that collaboration has been devised essentially as a mechanism for acts directly hostile to the Cuban regime , such as facilitating defections . 
, which therefore was artificially high . 
. 
. 
, as the October 1987 stock market crash continues to make itself felt . 
Meanwhile , tax revenues are falling while the city 's spending needs are expanding . 
while the city 's spending needs are expanding . 
, although the city 's own budget analysts project a narrower deficit . 
There are also questions about whether a new and inexperienced mayor can manage the city through what could become a financial crisis . 
And the controversy has led to uncertainty about the outcome of the election . 
, but uncertainty drives people wild , '' said Bernard B. Beal , chief executive of M.R. Beal & Co. , a securities firm that specializes in the municipal market . 
New York City 's 6 % bonds due 2018 , for example , were quoted late Friday at a price to yield 7.80 % , compared with 7.60 % Thursday . 
. 
Qintex Entertainment also said David Evans , its president and chief executive , and Roger Kimmel , a director , both resigned . 
after Qintex Australia failed to provide it with $ 5.9 million owed to MCA Inc. in connection with the distribution of `` The New Leave It to Beaver Show . '' 
and said it relies on the Australian company for funding its working capital requirements . 
and the deadline for default was Oct. 19 . 
. 
but the request was turned down by an unidentified lender on Oct. 14 . 
However a Qintex Australia spokesman said his firm had never `` promised or guaranteed '' to make the payment . 
In a prepared statement from Australia , the company also said that , following the breakdown of the MGM talks , it `` had been re-evaluating its position as a significant shareholder and a substantial creditor of Qintex Entertainment '' and had `` resolved to minimize the degree of further loans to Qintex Entertainment in excess of that previously made . '' 
and then they could n't come up with the far smaller sum of $ 5.9 million . '' 
and then they could n't come up with the far smaller sum of $ 5.9 million . '' 
'' and that Mr. Kimmel , an attorney , resigned because his participation in evaluating the company 's role in buying MGM\/UA was no longer necessary . 
because his participation in evaluating the company 's role in buying MGM\/UA was no longer necessary . 
However , `` we are n't currently doing anything . 
-- which Mr. Utsumi declined to identify -- because the large presence of Japanese banks in the deal was `` being strongly criticized in the U.S. Congress '' and it was `` necessary for us to grasp the situation . '' 
'' and it was `` necessary for us to grasp the situation . '' 
, and he added that none of the Japanese banks changed their posture on the deal as a result of the inquiry . 
Mr. Utsumi also said some Japanese banks were willing to participate in the UAL financing up to the very end , which would suggest at the very least that they were n't under orders to back out . 
Still , Mr. Utsumi may have a hard time convincing market analysts who have rightly or wrongly believed that the ministry played a role in orchestrating recent moves by Japanese banks . 
. 
because they found the terms unattractive , observers here say they have a hard time believing that commercial considerations were the only reason . 
Moreover , analysts point out that Japanese banks have a reputation for doing deals that are n't extremely profitable if they offer the chance to build market share , cement an important business relationship or curry favor with powerful bureaucrats . 
if they offer the chance to build market share , cement an important business relationship or curry favor with powerful bureaucrats . 
. 
. 
-LRB- Last year , for example , Seita 's net profit soared 150 % to 461.6 million French francs -LRB- $ 73.5 million -RRB- on sales of FFr 27.68 billion - a 1.7 % profit margin . -RRB- 
Instead , he said in an interview , he is looking for ways to exploit France 's network of 39,000 tobacco agents , most of them cafes . 
. 
. 
and , if it showed time remaining , save it for later . 
. 
And Seita is considering further diversification . 
And it retains an interest in acquiring candies and other articles that might be sold in tobacco shops . 
It also is trying to shore up its tobacco business . 
. 
So Seita has introduced blonde cigarettes under the Gauloises label , and intends to relaunch the unsuccessful Gitanes Blondes in new packaging , similar to the slide-packs used by brown-tobacco Gitanes . 
. 
But the 5-4 ruling may have had as much immediate impact on those activities -- especially trespassing -- as on abortion rights . 
and that never were contemplated by the justices . 
because the high court reinstated the preamble of the state 's 1986 abortion law . 
and that unborn children have rights protected by the Constitution . 
But the Supreme Court concluded that it was premature to rule on the constitutionality of the preamble because the definition of human life had n't yet been used to restrict abortion services . 
because the definition of human life had n't yet been used to restrict abortion services . 
before the Supreme Court 's Webster ruling . 
. 
Last week , when her appeal was argued before the Missouri Court of Appeals , her lawyer also relied on the preamble . 
, and I think this is one of the cracks , '' said Mark Belz , a St. Louis lawyer who represented Ms. O'Brien and the other St. Louis protesters . 
. 
, and you ca n't keep an abortion clinic open if there are 3,000 people standing outside every day . '' 
if there are 3,000 people standing outside every day . '' 
because his actual age should be calculated from conception , not from birth . 
, while those 21 or older suffer only a 30-day suspension . 
, but Daniel Dodson , a Jefferson City lawyer , says he has appealed . 
And in a case filed in federal court in August , a lawyer is arguing that Missouri authorities are wrongfully imprisoning the fetus of a pregnant woman who is in jail for theft and forgery . 
In the port of Berbera , for example , hundreds of men of the rival Issak clan were rounded up in May 1988 , imprisoned , and then taken out at night in groups of five to 50 men to be executed without any judicial process whatsoever . 
, and then taken out at night in groups of five to 50 men to be executed without any judicial process whatsoever . 
What gives these events particular significance , however , is the fact that they are part of a wider drama affecting the strategic positions of both the U.S. and the Soviet Union on the horn of Africa . 
. 
But due to dramatic events on the battlefield over the past few days and weeks , those Soviet bases may soon be as endangered and as lonely as the American runway . 
As a result , Mr. Mengistu has been forced to transfer thousands of troops from Eritrea just to hold the town , thereby risking the loss of even more territory in Eritrea only to keep the Tigreans at bay . 
, thereby risking the loss of even more territory in Eritrea only to keep the Tigreans at bay . 
, having suffered more than a decade of aerial bombardment by the Soviet-supplied Mengistu air force . 
The U.S. , therefore , has a historic opportunity both to strike a blow for human rights in Somalia and to undo the superpower flip-flop of the late 1970s on the Horn of Africa . 
But this is not enough . 
. 
. 
The U.S. should take care , however , that its own position in the country does not go down with him . 
or whom the successor might be . 
But as one expert tells me : `` Whoever it is will have to work pretty damn hard to be worse than Barre . '' 
. 
, while concomitantly opening up channels of communications with the Tigrean rebels through neighboring Sudan . 
But the U.S. has one great advantage : The Soviets are universally loathed throughout Ethiopia for what they did to the country this past decade -- famine and all . 
, and that should be cut fast . 
and most member nations are running flat out . 
But industry and OPEC officials agree that a handful of members still have enough unused capacity to glut the market and cause an oil-price collapse a few months from now if OPEC does n't soon adopt a new quota system to corral its chronic cheaters . 
if OPEC does n't soon adopt a new quota system to corral its chronic cheaters . 
As a result , the effort by some oil ministers to get OPEC to approve a new permanent production-sharing agreement next month is taking on increasing urgency . 
But that could change if demand for OPEC 's oil softens seasonally early next year as some think may happen . 
if demand for OPEC 's oil softens seasonally early next year as some think may happen . 
But it is estimated that at least three million barrels a day -- and possibly as much as seven million barrels a day -- of spare capacity still exists within OPEC . 
However , in interviews later , both ministers stressed that they expect future OPEC quotas to be based mainly on the production capacity and reserves of each member . 
? '' asked Mr. Al-Chalabi . 
They doled it out using the existing formula , however , which meant that even those countries that could n't produce more received higher official allotments . 
Still , there was a breakthrough at Geneva . 
Previously , no OPEC member had been willing to accept a reduction in its percentage share of the group 's total output target , or ceiling . 
But the concept of disproportionate quotas for those with unused capacity , advanced there in an Iranian proposal , was generally endorsed by the ministers . 
And the United Arab Emirates , a chronic quota cheater , refused to give any guarantee it would change its ways . 
But the oil ministers continue to study the plan , and it will probably be the basis for discussion at next month 's meeting . 
, and it will probably be the basis for discussion at next month 's meeting . 
while reducing percentage shares of some others . 
, although the United Arab Emirates is still an issue . 
Saudi Arabia , OPEC 's kingpin , also has surfaced as a possible obstacle , some OPEC sources said . 
In Geneva , however , they supported Iran 's proposal because it would have left the Saudi percentage of the OPEC total intact , and increased actual Saudi volume to nearly 5.3 million barrels daily from five million . 
because it would have left the Saudi percentage of the OPEC total intact , and increased actual Saudi volume to nearly 5.3 million barrels daily from five million . 
Some of the proposed modifications since , however , call on Saudi Arabia to `` give back '' to the production-sharing pool a token 23,000 barrels . 
. 
But unofficially , senior navy officials sharply criticize the Rafale as an air force plane ill-suited to carrier use . 
. 
. 
, and French officials question whether the state can continue paying for expensive independent programs . 
after seeing Cathay 's interim figures , believe more jolts lie ahead . 
, and tourism in and through Hong Kong remains clouded by China 's turmoil since the June 4 killings in Beijing . 
In addition , delivery delays for the first two of as many as 28 Boeing 747-400s that the carrier has ordered have raised costs because personnel had been hired to man the planes . 
because personnel had been hired to man the planes . 
And tough competition in the air-freight market is cutting into an important sideline . 
There also is concern that once Hong Kong reverts to China 's sovereignty in 1997 , Cathay will be forced to play second fiddle to China 's often-disparaged flag carrier , Civil Aviation Administration of China , or CAAC . 
. 
, while the Boeing aircraft will be used on long-haul routes to Europe and North America . 
Cathay also is moving some of its labor-intensive data-processing operations outside Hong Kong . 
, while experienced , skilled employees are leaving the colony as part of the brain drain . 
, and there are plans to place others in Canada . 
. 
There also has been speculation that Cathay will be among the major private-sector participants in the Hong Kong government 's plans to build a new airport , with the carrier possibly investing in its own terminal . 
But he emphasizes that Cathay has n't any interest in swapping equity stakes with the U.S. carrier or with Lufthansa , the West German airline with which it has cooperated for about a decade . 
, particularly as the popularity of share exchanges has grown among European carriers . 
`` But we 'd rather put funds into our own business rather than someone else 's . 
U.S. , and they 'll never have one as big as us in the Pacific , '' Mr. Eddington says . 
`` But this way , American will coordinate good extensions to Boston , New York , Chicago and Dallas . 
, and it is applying to restart long-canceled flights into Vietnam . 
Further expansion into southern Europe is also possible , says Mr. Bell , the spokesman . 
because it would jeopardize its landing rights in Hong Kong . 
because it would jeopardize its landing rights in Hong Kong . 
And Mr. Eddington emphatically rules out a move to London : `` Our lifeblood is Hong Kong traffic rights . '' 
But critics fret that post-1997 officials ultimately will be responsible to Beijing . 
, but the general sense is they 're going to have to do something . '' 
, but he feels that the Sino-British agreement is firm ground to build on for the foreseeable future . 
as he steers them away . 
unless she is accompanied by an inspector . 
. 
while people were taking things out , and a resident who was n't allowed to go back inside called up the stairs to his girlfriend , telling her to keep sending things down to the lobby . 
, and a resident who was n't allowed to go back inside called up the stairs to his girlfriend , telling her to keep sending things down to the lobby . 
. 
When he sneaked back later to try again , a different policeman offered to help him get the car out . 
The Marina also has become the focal point of city efforts to reunite residents with any pets that may have fled or become lost during the earthquake . 
The San Francisco Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals also has been providing medical care , food , water and foster homes for quake-displaced animals . 
, though some people have sought temporary homes for birds and fish . 
For example , one parakeet owner returning home found that her apartment , like many others in the Marina , did n't have heat . A warm foster home has been found . 
, but for a parakeet , that can be deadly , '' says Daralee Konowitch , animalcare services manager for the SPCA . 
But turn into the shopping center 's parking lot , and one could be in the safe , busy mall of a prosperous suburb . 
, and one could be in the safe , busy mall of a prosperous suburb . 
Thus there is even more to the Vermont-Slauson Center than a good place to shop . 
and that the gangs are not invincible . 
. 
And that is before consideration of increased state and local revenues from taxes and fees on sales , real estate , licenses and the like . 
before consideration of increased state and local revenues from taxes and fees on sales , real estate , licenses and the like . 
Profits are also plowed back into the community ; the non-profit Vermont-Slauson Economic Development Corp. receives 60 % of the profits from the Vermont-Slauson Center and uses the money to provide moderate and low-cost housing in the community -- now running into the hundreds of units -- as well as commercial and industrial development projects . 
and 14 % to members of other minority groups . 
Security costs are also quite high . 
These features are also used in Matanky Realty Group 's Grand Boulevard Plaza . 
because the centers ' site acquisition , construction , and financing costs were reduced by such programs as Urban Development Action Grants , Economic Development Administration Grants , Community Development Block Grants , tax-free Industrial Development Bonds , Enterprise Zone tax write-offs , city infrastructure grants , and tax increment financing . 
However , since these centers appear to pay for themselves , there is nothing to prevent state and local governments from enacting legislation with similar provisions . 
. 
. 
, and another will join the Big Board from the over-the-counter market this week . 
Separately , on the Pacific Stock Exchange , put and call options on the common stock of Aldus Corp. started trading . 
. 
and that theme will be a return to growth , '' declares Mary Farrell , a PaineWebber analyst . 
, though they also have expanding-profit track records . 
, though they also have expanding-profit track records . 
. 
because some analysts and brokers , who perennially predict that small stocks are about to outperform bigger issues , may use any spurt in growth issues to help them sell all small stocks . 
, '' but investors should be selective , says John Palicka , chief portfolio manager at Midco Investors , a Newark , N.J. , money management company with about $ 900 million invested in growth stocks of varying sizes . 
, '' says L. Keith Mullins , a growth-stock analyst at Morgan Stanley . 
Smaller-stock earnings , by comparison , rose between 15 % and 20 % . 
In addition , earnings growth took a back seat to cash flow , restructuring and takeover potential , and breakup value as the preferred stock-picking standards for much of the year . 
Also , the smaller growth stocks are n't widely traded , and so are harder to buy and sell quickly than blue chips . 
, and so are harder to buy and sell quickly than blue chips . 
As a result , Morgan Stanley 's Index of 40 Emerging Growth Stocks -- most of which are in the OTC market -- is up only 13 % for the year , while the Dow Jones Industrial Average has leaped 24 % and the S&P 500 has grown 25 % . 
, while the Dow Jones Industrial Average has leaped 24 % and the S&P 500 has grown 25 % . 
and the S&P 500 has grown 25 % . 
, but that 's largely due to the 100 largest nonfinancial stocks , which have soared 30 % . 
because investing in them means ignoring that maxim found in the fine print of some investment advertisements -- that past performance is n't indicative of future results . 
However , more money managers are reassured that profit is regaining importance . 
Barney Hallingby , managing director of research at Hambrecht & Quist , also believes earnings growth is beginning to play a greater part in investors ' buying decisions . 
, so it is n't a small stock . 
after reporting that its third-quarter net income fell to $ 1.62 a share from last year 's $ 1.67 a share . 
after reporting that it had a $ 4.8 million loss in the latest third quarter mostly because of loan-loss provisions . 
after agreeing to be acquired by Banco Popular de Puerto Rico for $ 56.25 a share . 
Banco Popular , meanwhile , dropped 1 1\/4 to 21 1\/2 . 
after seeking protection from creditor lawsuits under Chapter 11 of the federal Bankruptcy Code for itself and its two operating subsidiaries , Hal Roach Studios and Qintex Productions . 
after it said late Thursday that it will take a $ 4.4 million charge in its third quarter for reserves to cover potential charges in connection with the closing and sale of a manufacturing plant . 
As a result , the company has suspended its quarterly dividend . 
and McCaw lost 1\/4 to 41 . 
, which earlier entered a stock-swap merger pact with BellSouth . 
However , the maximum coupon rate on the issue when it is reset can only be 15.5 % . 
. 
Debenture holders will also receive the equivalent of 10 % of the common stock of CNW Holdings . 
, but underwriters said it will be offered after a filing for 68,548 common shares of CNW Holdings is declared effective by the Securities & Exchange Commission . 
after a filing for 68,548 common shares of CNW Holdings is declared effective by the Securities & Exchange Commission . 
Furthermore , the regulatory maneuvering behind First Interstate 's loss suggests regulators have concluded that lenders ' reserves are far too low to absorb their future Arizona losses and are forcing bankers to do something about it . 
. 
, but the regulators made it very clear what they thought was an appropriate number . '' 
For example , Western Savings & Loan Association , which is now in conservatorship , had tangible capital-assets minus liabilities -- of a negative $ 357.4 million at June 30 . It had a $ 258.9 million loss in the second quarter . Yet it still held $ 916.3 million of repossessed real estate , for which it maintains no reserves whatsoever . It also had $ 479.7 million of past-due loans ; its level of reserves against those was n't immediately available , though it is believed to be small . 
Yet it still held $ 916.3 million of repossessed real estate , for which it maintains no reserves whatsoever . 
It also had $ 479.7 million of past-due loans ; its level of reserves against those was n't immediately available , though it is believed to be small . 
, though it is believed to be small . 
, and their reserves against the loans are miniscule compared with the levels of reserves banks are moving to set up . 
, if they can sell it at all . 
and Phoenix has a seven-year supply of unoccupied office space . 
, but it 's unfortunate that earthquake was n't in Phoenix -- it might have knocked out some of our empty buildings , '' said C.W. Jackson , a prominent Arizona businessman with interests in real estate , banking and many other businesses . 
, and it 's accelerating : So far this month , foreclosures are averaging about 85 a day . 
Moreover , Mr. Shattuck and others said residential real estate , which had remained fairly strong through most of the downturn , is beginning to comprise more and more of the foreclosures . 
And the generally frail condition of Arizona 's lenders means there is little capital available in the state to shore up the economy and slow down the slide . 
and the amount of viable bank capital is very low , '' said Mr. Jackson . 
before stabilizing . 
, but many industry officials believe it may be ripe for a takeover bid , especially with interstate banking set to begin in California in 1991 . 
Separately , Standard & Poor 's Corp. lowered its ratings on Valley National Corp. 's senior debt to double-B from double-B-plus , affecting about $ 300 million of long-term debt . S&P also lowered ratings on unsecured deposits and issues backed by a letter of credit from the bank holding company 's principal unit , Valley National Bank of Arizona . 
S&P also lowered ratings on unsecured deposits and issues backed by a letter of credit from the bank holding company 's principal unit , Valley National Bank of Arizona . 
, he said , and consumer deposits have been up in the last few days . 
But in certain conditions such as autoimmune diseases and allergies and transplant rejection , doctors would like to damp the immune response so such cells do n't touch off harmful inflammatory reactions or cell destruction . 
so such cells do n't touch off harmful inflammatory reactions or cell destruction . 
But Compaq had achieved that level of sales faster than any previous manufacturing start-up . 
, and they 've been greatly rewarded , '' said Bob Katsive , an analyst at Disk\/Trend Inc. , a market researcher in Los Altos , Calif . 
In the coming months , however , this is likely to change . 
And the Japanese are likely to keep close on Conner 's heels . 
, and Sony also is studying the field , Mr. Claridge said . 
, and Sony also is studying the field , Mr. Claridge said . 
But Conner is n't standing still . 
and one weighs just 5.5 ounces . 
Last week , for instance , Compaq introduced its first notebook computer to rave reviews . Conner is supplying hard-disk drives for the machine , which weighs only six pounds and fits in a briefcase . 
The availability of these drives , in turn , boosted demand for laptop computers , whose usefulness had been limited because of lack of storage . 
Conner also makes hard-disk drives for desktop computers and is a major supplier to Compaq , which as of July owned 40 % of Conner 's stock . 
. 
There also are `` 800 '' hotlines which refer people to lawyers , usually personal-injury specialists , for in-office consultation . 
. 
, if necessary , with the help of three law clerks and several support staffers . 
. 
But he says Cane & Associates does n't receive referral fees . 
, and the average call lasts about 15 minutes . 
The jury also convicted them of extortion in obtaining a $ 20,000 , interest-free loan from a Wedtech officer . 
because they wanted a different environment -- a smaller firm they would be principals of . '' 
but that the five were firmly committed to running their own firm . 
. 
once a formal complaint is filed against an attorney . 
In addition , Illinois attorneys will lose the right to sue clients who file malicious complaints against them . 
because they are unlikely to appreciate the nuances of attorney-client relationships . 
In addition , he says , publishing the names of lawyers who are facing charges unnecessarily subjects them to public derogation . 
Nevertheless , Mr. Lupel anticipates no legal action to reverse the Illinois Supreme Court 's decision to institute the changes . 
, but the New York firm has been negotiating settlements that would allow it to operate freely nationwide despite its record as an admitted felon . 
; it also made a $ 650 million civil settlement with the Securities and Exchange Commission . 
Also mentioned as a contender was TBWA Advertising , but the company denied it was participating . 
, but the company denied it was participating . 
But Philip Morris has scaled back ad spending on the brand over the past year , industry executives said , and it now bills about $ 30 million to $ 40 million . 
, industry executives said , and it now bills about $ 30 million to $ 40 million . 
and what he was doing . 
Wells Rich Greene , however , in an effort directed by Mary Wells Lawrence , emerged the victor of the review and retained the business . 
. 
as hundreds of thousands of commuters avoid travel routes ravaged by last week 's earthquake . 
Also , most of the ramps connecting the city to its main link to the south , the 101 freeway , have been closed for repairs . 
It also raised hackles of the city 's tourism boosters . 
. 
. 
, but members of the legislature are also mulling over a temporary state gasoline tax to raise money for earthquake relief . 
, but members of the legislature are also mulling over a temporary state gasoline tax to raise money for earthquake relief . 
However , state initiatives restrict the ability of the legislature to raise such taxes unless the voters approve in a statewide referendum . 
unless the voters approve in a statewide referendum . 
In preliminary , unaudited results reported Friday , Bond Corp. also posted an operating loss of A$ 814.1 million for the year ended June 30 , compared with operating profit of A$ 354.7 million a year earlier . 
But the net interest bill jumped 85 % to A$ 686.7 million from A$ 371.1 million . 
However , Bond Corp. said the tax benefits remain available and might be used later . 
, and this has been reflected in the results . '' 
But in a TV interview Sunday Mr. Bond said , `` We 've taken a big loss . We 've taken it on the chin . But we 're out there and we 're going to stay in business . 
But we 're out there and we 're going to stay in business . 
and we 're going to stay in business . 
The result `` will ultimately be a very different group in size and structure , '' Bond Corp. directors said in a statement . 
, and Bond Corp. 's auditors cited a list of several assets and deals about which there is `` uncertainty '' regarding the current value and potential impact on the firm . 
Still , the directors said , `` Having fully considered all aspects of the company 's state of affairs and future cash flows , the directors confirm absolutely that the company is solvent . '' 
Indeed , in a note to the results , directors said if the `` true worth '' of some of the group 's assets were taken into account instead of using book values , the negative net asset backing a share would turn into `` a substantial positive '' one . 
. 
Nor was there a shortage of customers in the area , the residential Inwood section of northern Manhattan . 
when the owner was murdered by robbers . 
as he chased the robbers outside . 
Yet these figures show only the most visible part of the problem . 
. 
and that 19 % said they were considering moving . 
The costs of crime may also be enough to destroy a struggling business . 
, if crime were not so harmful to creating and maintaining those businesses . 
Since 1984 , in fact , revenues of the 10 largest guard companies , primarily serving such big businesses , have increased by almost 62 % . 
Few small neighborhood businesses , however , can afford such protection , even in collaboration with other local merchants . 
But this raises added cost barriers to urban entrepreneurship . 
because urban crime is heavily concentrated in such `` hot spots '' of pedestrian density . 
. 
, and they 'll have to revisit it before long . 
, but its truth was demonstrated once again in the performance of mutual funds during and after the stock market 's Friday-the-13th plunge . 
But several other types of funds shielded investors from the worst of the market 's slide . 
But the latest mutual fund performance figures do show what can happen when the going gets rough . 
when the going gets rough . 
when the market got hammered , '' said Kurt Brouwer , an investment adviser with Brouwer & Janachowski in San Francisco . 
? '' 
? '' 
But Lipper Analytical 's figures show that there were a number of ways investors could have cushioned themselves from the stock market 's gyrations . 
Gold-oriented funds , for instance , which invest in companies that mine and process the precious metal , posted an average decline of 1.15 % . Flexible portfolio funds , which allocate investments among stocks , bonds and money-market instruments and other investments , declined at about half the rate of stock funds -- an average drop of 1.27 % , according to Lipper . Global allocation funds take the asset-allocation concept one step further by investing at least 25 % of their portfolios outside the U.S. . This gives them the added benefits of international diversification -- including a foreign-exchange boost during periods , like the past week , when the dollar declines against other major currencies . With all that going for them , global flexible portfolio funds declined only 1.07 % in the week through last Thursday . 
But while the merits of diversification shine through when times are tough , there 's also a price to pay : A diversified portfolio always underperforms an undiversified portfolio during those times when the investment in the undiversified portfolio is truly hot . 
: A diversified portfolio always underperforms an undiversified portfolio during those times when the investment in the undiversified portfolio is truly hot . 
when times are tough , there 's also a price to pay : A diversified portfolio always underperforms an undiversified portfolio during those times when the investment in the undiversified portfolio is truly hot . 
, there 's also a price to pay : A diversified portfolio always underperforms an undiversified portfolio during those times when the investment in the undiversified portfolio is truly hot . 
And Friday the 13th notwithstanding , stocks have been this year 's hot investment . 
Thus , even including the latest week , the average general stock fund has soared more than 24 % so far this year , the Lipper Analytical figures show . 
By comparison , global asset allocation funds have turned in an average total return of about 19 % , while domestic flexible portfolios are up about 17 % . 
, while domestic flexible portfolios are up about 17 % . 
, while gold funds , which tend to be volatile , have risen just 4.55 % , on average . 
Over the last 20 years , for example , Mr. Brouwer says , an investor putting $ 5,000 a year in the S&P 500 would have made nearly twice as much than if it were invested in Treasury bills . 
The $ 4 million Monetta Fund , for instance , was the seventh top performing fund for the week , with a 2.65 % return . 
when a stock appreciates 30 % over its cost . 
, and the economy will slow around the world . '' 
when the dollar is weak . 
. 
when those currencies rise against the dollar . 
But when the dollar rises against major foreign currencies , as it did for much of this year , the dollar value of these funds declines . 
. 
Reflecting airline takeover activity , however , both the Fidelity Select Air Transportation Portfolio and the National Aviation & Technology fund posted better-than-average returns for the the year to date : 30.09 % for the Fidelity Air Transportation fund and a whopping 47.24 % for National Aviation & Technology . 
But investors do n't seem to think so . 
and , in fact , interest in buying equities . '' 
But the companies said that Nationwide Anglia Estate Agents will market GRE life insurance , pension and investment products through its more than 1,000 retail outlets in the U.K . 
What really stirs his muse , though , is aerobic architecture . 
. 
The carpets wo n't be glued down , and walls will be coated with nontoxic finishes . 
. 
, says John Burgee , whose New York firm is designing the redevelopment of Times Square , `` but we ca n't all carry it to that extreme . '' 
, before entering Dartmouth College . 
, and the desks are of wood and granite instead of plastic . 
But , she says , `` I guess I did n't really notice the trees . Maybe they were hidden by all the people . '' 
To more than replace the wood from two English oaks used for paneling at Paul Stuart , however , Mr. McDonough and friends planted 1,000 acorns around the country . 
. 
The pollution is also killing forests and destroying buildings that date back to the Middle Ages . 
, but discussions are still going on over where to place it and how to ensure that it will be maintained . 
Pittston also owns Brink 's Inc. , the security service , and Burlington Air Express , the air-freight concern . 
As a result , the group 's third-quarter loss widened to $ 9.8 million from the second quarter 's $ 3.6 million . 
, Pittston said . 
. 
because he holds a comfortable 20-point lead in most of the public-opinion polls . 
But , in the past 10 days , he has taken a series of body blows to his pride and his reputation that could adversely affect his ability to govern this tumultuous city should he become New York 's first black mayor . 
But Mr. Giuliani , a celebrated prosecutor , has had difficulty switching from his crime-busting , finger-pointing mode to a political stance that suggests he might know something about running this big , troubled city . 
And now , at the crucial moment , he 's running out of money . 
and , traditionally , its mayor is the nation 's best-known urban politician . 
and that they would pick up a new political star . 
But it has n't worked out that way . 
But the steam may never reach the engine room . 
. 
But the trouble it faces now under Democratic rule seems bigger and more daunting than anything it has faced in the past . 
And hardly surprising , many residents trying to cope with the city 's other problems are constantly on edge , one ethnic group scrapping with another . 
`` But , at least , back then they did n't generally direct their anger at each other . '' 
partly because he seemed to offer hope he could heal the city 's racial and ethnic wounds . 
, but Mr. Dinkins is widely seen as the major obstacle for scheduling them . 
`` But our polls show voters do n't like the attack stuff . 
-LRB- he won the Liberal endorsement -RRB- and that he turned to comedian Jackie Mason for help with Jewish voters . 
after telling reporters Mr. Dinkins is `` a fancy'shvartzer ' with a moustache . '' 
, and a routine check unearthed the extraordinary fact that he had n't paid his income tax for the previous four years . 
And now he 's busily trying to explain an arrangement in which he sold stock in Inner City Broadcasting Co. , headed by his old friend and patron , Percy Sutton , to his son , David Dinkins Jr. , for $ 58,000 . 
until after he gets caught . '' 
until after he gets caught . '' 
So far though , no one -- not even former U.S. attorney Giuliani -- has been able to pinpoint just what law Mr. Dinkins has broken or just what tax he has evaded . 
and this is the latest chapter . '' 
shortly before the bank 's collapse . 
, or showing that the bank , known as the Istituto per le Opere di Religione , channeled funds to East bloc groups such as Solidarity in Poland . 
The company also named Michael E. Gellert , a director and a major shareholder , to fill the vacant seat of chairman . 
and that it will `` cooperate fully . '' 
But the deal fell apart last week for lack of financing . 
after Realist disclosed the Ammann purchase . 
until it had an opportunity to review it . 
Indeed , Winnebago said it started `` several promotional programs '' to spur retail sales in the fall and winter . 
But the rate of the decline snowballed in August , with unit sales to dealers for the month down 10.5 % from a year earlier , according to the Recreation Vehicle Industry Association . 
`` So when there 's talk and concern about the economy , it 's not unreasonable for a portion of the buying public to defer purchases . '' 
. '' 
And he said the weakness could continue in the first half of next year . 
But he said the industry has `` a good decade ahead , '' particularly if aging baby boomers fulfill the industry 's dreams by buying RVs . 
, '' particularly if aging baby boomers fulfill the industry 's dreams by buying RVs . 
because unit sales in its bread-and-butter motor home business tumbled 25 % industrywide in August , and 10.4 % in the first eight months of the year . 
The company said it also suffered in the quarter from incentive programs , losses from discontinuing a motor home line and costs of developing a new commercial vehicle , among other things . 
. 
And that , they say , will be good for bonds . 
as prices soared on speculation that interest rates would continue to fall . 
But when it became clear that rates had stabilized and that the Fed 's credit-easing policy was on hold , bond yields jumped and prices tumbled . 
. 
and that the Fed 's credit-easing policy was on hold , bond yields jumped and prices tumbled . 
and prices tumbled . 
For example , a group of long-term Treasury bonds tracked by Merrill Lynch & Co. produced a total return of 1 % in the first quarter , 12.45 % in the second quarter and -0.06 % in the third quarter . 
, and they are urging clients to buy bonds before the rally begins . 
before the rally begins . 
and construction and manufacturing industries are depressed . 
and it means `` that the Fed has a little leeway to ease its credit policy stance without the risk of rekindling inflation , '' said Norman Robertson , chief economist at Mellon Bank Corp. , Pittsburgh . 
. 
as interest rates fall . 
Mr. Kochan also likes long-term , investment-grade corporate bonds and long-term Treasurys . 
as some investors , reacting to the recent turmoil in the stock and high-yield junk bond markets , seek safer securities . 
, '' he said . 
But persuading investors to buy bonds may be especially tough this week , when the U.S. government will auction more than $ 30 billion of new securities . 
. 
and when-issued trading activity began , the bailout bonds were yielding about 1\/20 percentage point more than the Treasury 's benchmark 30-year bond . 
as the market struggles to absorb the new supply . 
But once the new securities are digested , they expect investors to focus on the weak economic data . 
. 
. '' 
Junk bond prices moved higher , however . 
Also providing support to Treasurys was hope that the stock market might see declines because of the expiration of some stock-index futures and options on indexes and individual stocks . 
when the stock market put in a relatively quiet performance . 
Today , for example , underwriters at Morgan Stanley & Co. said they expect to price a $ 150 million , 12-year senior subordinated debenture offering by Imo Industries Inc . Traders expect the issue to be priced to yield 12 % . 
However , despite the big new-issue calendar , many junk bond investors and analysts are skeptical the deals will get done . 
. '' 
And pressure by big investors forced Donaldson Lufkin & Jenrette Securities Corp. to sweeten Chicago & North Western 's $ 475 million junk bond offering . 
However , the maximum coupon rate on the issue when it is reset is 15.50 % . 
. 
Debenture holders also will receive the equivalent of 10 % of the common stock in Chicago & North Western 's parent company . 
, while investment-grade corporate bonds fell 1\/8 to 1\/4 point . 
, people familiar with the transaction said , thus taking a greater than usual financial interest in the property to be sold . 
In addition , a handful of paintings from the Dorrance collection remain to be sold at Sotheby 's annual old masters paintings auction in January . 
if any misrepresentations are involved in the sale . 
Further , McCaw said the banks expressed confidence that the balance of the $ 4.5 billion bank facility will be committed within the next several weeks by a syndicate of foreign and domestic banks . 
The offer is in limbo , however , because LIN has agreed to merge its cellular-phone businesses with BellSouth Corp . 
, because LIN has agreed to merge its cellular-phone businesses with BellSouth Corp . 
, and those with sexually transmitted diseases will be expelled from the country , according to the regulations . 
after taking over in 1949 , but the practice has returned in recent years with the country 's increased exposure to the outside world . 
, but the practice has returned in recent years with the country 's increased exposure to the outside world . 
Earlier , Japan had said it might file a reservation against the ivory ban decided by ballot at the 103-nation United Nations Conference on International Trade in Endangered Species in Switzerland last week . 
because it 's a danger to tourists , government-appointed experts said . 
; but to reduce it further , he said , production and supply of other beverages , including fruit juices , should be stepped up . 
because China has refused for the past two weeks to accept them back . 
when China , angry that Hong Kong had allowed dissident swimmer Yang Yang to flee to the U.S. , halted the usual daily transfer of illegal immigrants caught in this British colony , which reverts to Beijing 's control in 1997 . 
unless the intensity of the lights is reduced . 
because they 're uncertain the Mexican economy will remain stable . 
Instead , many small and medium-sized banks , and some larger ones , are likely to take one of the other two options open to them under the plan , Japanese banking officials said . 
But an official at a long-term credit bank explained that since some larger banks have already taken loss provisions for loans to other Third World nations , further write-offs could be viewed as intolerable . 
. 
As a result , the official said , they may be forced into a no-win situation in which they make risky loans that they could have to write off later . 
that they could have to write off later . 
Softer-than-expected orders in early September also played a role , he said in an interview . 
But Mr. Stein said he is `` reasonably confident '' that earnings for the full year will exceed the $ 3.1 million , or 17 cents a share , in 1988 . 
, as many retailers use the goods as autumn promotional items . 
, '' and its plastic storage-case products `` are poised for growth , '' he said . 
But the unit 's third segment , wildlife traps , is suffering from a `` depressed market , '' and Ekco is seeking to sell that segment , he said . 
, '' and Ekco is seeking to sell that segment , he said . 
, but Mr. Stein and other officers decided to sell that business after Japanese competitors grabbed a dominant share of the market . -RRB- 
after Japanese competitors grabbed a dominant share of the market . -RRB- 
By moving the design of new products in-house -- instead of contracting out the work -- the company also has been able to come up with designs that can be manufactured more efficiently , he said . 
, partly because mass merchandisers increasingly want to rely on larger , and fewer , suppliers . 
when the massacre in Tiananmen Square on June 4 and subsequent events tugged the belt far tighter . 
And Beijing has pulled back on domestic loans and subsidies , leaving many domestic buyers and export-oriented plants strapped for cash . 
, but when no orders were logged in August and September , manager Donald Lai became convinced that business would be bad for many months . 
. 
, and foreign companies such as Givaudan that deal with those industries are being hit the hardest . 
But in general , all foreign-trading companies are feeling the pinch . 
, because Beijing has cut off domestic funds from factories for the first time to slow inflation . 
In addition , the suspension of loans and export credits from foreign governments and institutions following the June killings have been a big setback . 
For example , Nissho Iwai Corp. , one of the biggest Japanese trading houses , now buys almost twice as many goods from China as it sells to that country . 
But the strategy is n't helping much this time . 
But when foreign traders tried to do business , they discovered that the eagerness of Chinese trade officials was just a smokescreen . 
. 
, but it ca n't do that any longer . 
Foreign traders also say many of China 's big infrastructural projects have been canceled or postponed because of the squeeze on domestic and foreign credit . 
, and that means no new business for us , '' he says . 
because Beijing will likely try to rein in foreign borrowing , which has grown between 30 % and 40 % in the past few years . 
because Beijing will likely try to rein in foreign borrowing , which has grown between 30 % and 40 % in the past few years . 
And foreign creditors are likely to be more cautious about extending new loans because China is nearing a peak repayment period as many loans start falling due in the next two to five years . 
because China is nearing a peak repayment period as many loans start falling due in the next two to five years . 
as many loans start falling due in the next two to five years . 
But the shortages also spawned rampant speculation and spiraling prices . 
But the shortages also spawned rampant speculation and spiraling prices . 
But Beijing ca n't cut back on such essential imports as raw materials for too long without hampering the country 's export business . 
But the Glacier Bay case , the fund 's first test , shows how easily the fund can be undermined . 
, says a spokesman for Rep. George Miller -LRB- D. , Calif. -RRB- , a sponsor of the bill . 
, but it does n't teach the nuts and bolts of practical lawyering , '' says Aaron Weitz , head of a New York County Lawyers ' Association committee that sponsors such a course . 
But these days , large firms hire as many as 30 new associates a year , and it 's impossible to personally train everyone , says Joel Henning of Hildebrandt Inc. , a consulting firm that runs training classes . 
, and it 's impossible to personally train everyone , says Joel Henning of Hildebrandt Inc. , a consulting firm that runs training classes . 
Students also are taught to return clients ' phone calls immediately and to treat the support staff with respect . 
before working on their cases , says James J. Hanks , a partner at the firm . 
And there will be a nurse 's station and rooms for children to meet with social workers . 
so the judge seems less intimidating , and walls will be painted in bright colors and covered with murals . 
, and walls will be painted in bright colors and covered with murals . 
, Mr. Edelman says , and an average of 1,500 new children are added each month . 
and may also shift money within the package to bolster the share for the Small Business Administration . 
, and we will augment it where appropriate , '' said Rep. Vic Fazio -LRB- D. , Calif . -RRB- . 
, '' the legislation reads , and the new obligations `` shall not be a charge against the Budget Act , Gramm-Rudman-Hollings , or other ceilings . 
, and I do n't think it will affect the value of our existing bonds . '' 
Moody 's said it also lowered the ratings of $ 70 million of Pinnacle 's MeraBank thrift unit long-term deposits to B-3 from B-2 , and on its subordinated debt to Ca from Caa . 
and ambitious yuppies hoped to leave it far behind as they scaled the upper reaches of success , it now seems that so many people feel they 're slipping between the cracks , that middle-class life is viewed with nostalgia or outright longing . 
as they scaled the upper reaches of success , it now seems that so many people feel they 're slipping between the cracks , that middle-class life is viewed with nostalgia or outright longing . 
But Nora and Malcolm feel trapped . 
but that they know they should be grateful to do . 
, but Nora finds an extra $ 30,000 in her bank account , suddenly increasing her available funds some fifteenfold . 
. 
But readers may well feel the pangs of recognition . 
-- or whose troubles provide material for fiction . 
But , as he and his skilled team soon discover , they 're up against two factors they had n't counted on : first , a business climate in which a failing company with few assets and many debts can borrow against the assets of the successful company it hopes to acquire in order to finance the takeover ; second , that standing behind AIW is a sinister consortium of much bigger , shadier and shrewder foreign interests secretly providing the money and muscle for the deal . 
And like a spy or mystery story , this novel has strong elements of allegory , as the good and evil forces battle it out . 
, as the good and evil forces battle it out . 
Yet the heavy-handedness of the satire also can be effective in a book like this : If the head of AIW were not portrayed as an utterly contemptible , malicious dolt , we would not much care whether his schemes were defeated , and would not be so diverted in the process . 
Yet the heavy-handedness of the satire also can be effective in a book like this : If the head of AIW were not portrayed as an utterly contemptible , malicious dolt , we would not much care whether his schemes were defeated , and would not be so diverted in the process . 
. 
, so it is a natural multibillion-dollar market . 
. 
But except for Zenith Electronics Corp. and International Business Machines Corp. , which is collaborating with Toshiba on computer displays , they are poorly positioned to exploit advances in large panels . 
, and because the prize is still there to be seized . 
because of their strong positions in patents , and because the prize is still there to be seized . 
, '' says Peter Friedman , Photonics 's executive vice president . 
But Peter Brody , Magnascreen 's president , says Japanese companies are poised to snatch the technology and put it to commercial use , just as they did with earlier U.S. innovations in color television and video recording . 
In 1979 , however , Westinghouse abandoned the project along with its stake in advanced television . 
, but he contends that those patents are being infringed by a number of Japanese producers . 
, and that 's a source of concern , '' says Michael Kelly , director of DARPA 's defense manufacturing office . 
So DARPA is trying to keep the industry interested in developing large display panels by doling out research funds . 
and the Army wants smaller versions for its Abrams battle tanks . 
The Commerce Department also is trying to encourage HDTV because of the benefits that could spin off to the semiconductor and computer industries . 
before it acquires a mass consumer market . '' 
. 
They also want U.S. trade policy to reflect the Pentagon and Commerce department 's concern over their future . 
And they want the U.S. to help them sell overseas . 
, while panels from those countries enter the U.S. duty-free . 
and which owns 40 % of Calor , was identified as a possible suitor for Burmah . 
and that `` no deal of any nature is in contemplation . 
before ruling on a permit for the site . 
Indeed , the OTS said that before the law took effect Aug. 9 , it banned another `` key Vision Banc insider '' from insured financial institutions . 
. 
, and it operates under the control of the Resolution Trust Corp. , the agency created to sell or liquidate insolvent thrifts . 
However , it said examiners found a variety of insider dealings at the thrift , including `` extraordinary loan commissions '' paid to a firm associated with Vision Banc officials , and loans diverted through borrowers back to the thrift officials . 
and yet reach a little for additional gains . 
, but their common characteristic is a history of increasing profits on the order of at least 15 % to 20 % a year , money managers say . 
Growth stocks also are attractive in periods of market volatility , which many investors and analysts expect in the weeks ahead as everybody tries to discern where the economy is heading . 
as everybody tries to discern where the economy is heading . 
and investors flocked to the shares of companies with proven earnings records , which became known as the `` nifty 50 . '' 
And they will again , say money-manager proponents of the growth-stock theme . 
as the overall corporate earnings outlook deteriorates further . 
He also thinks foreign investors , who are showing signs of more discriminate investing , will join the pursuit and pump up prices . 
, '' nonetheless foresees a sluggish economy in the meantime . 
, '' nonetheless foresees a sluggish economy in the meantime . 
, and which last week announced a $ 1 billion buy-back of its shares . 
. 
But not all strategists or money managers are ready to throw in the towel completely on cyclicals . 
if the Federal Reserve begins to let interest rates drift sufficiently lower to boost the economy . 
But there were fewer price swings than expected . 
But block trading desks and money managers made a concerted effort to meet the imbalances with stock to sell , one trader said . 
As a result , the Dow Jones Industrial Average drifted in narrow ranges in the final hour of trading , and closed 5.94 higher to 2689.14 . 
, and the New York Stock Exchange Composite Index fell 0.05 to 192.12 . 
as market players snapped up blue-chip issues and shunned the broad market . 
and the New York Stock Exchange composite index added 3.5 % . 
. 
before dropping his bid Wednesday , has acquired a stake of about 3 % in USAir . 
and Burlington Resources declined 7\/8 to 45 5\/8 . 
after Smith Barney , Harris Upham & Co. lowered investment ratings on a number of issues in the two sectors , based on a forecast that pulp prices will fall sharply . 
and Weyerhaeuser lost 7\/8 to 28 1\/8 . 
after declaring a quarterly dividend of 70 cents a share , down from 95 cents a share . 
It said then it had had and would continue to have discussions with Anacomp 's management concerning its investment . 
The company also said it will adopt new accounting standards in the first quarter . 
Also shown is the closing listed market price or a dealer-to-dealer asked price of each fund 's shares , with the percentage of difference . 
'' and that the defendants are seeking to ensure a `` lockup '' of the purchase of Unitel , thereby discouraging other bids . 
, thereby discouraging other bids . 
if the UAL deal gets patched up again , as they did in 1982 when Occidental Petroleum Co. rescued them with a $ 4 billion takeover of Cities Service . 
In the meantime , the question faced by investors is : What is UAL stock worth ? 
because airline earnings , like those of auto makers , have been subject to the cyclical ups-and-downs of the economy . 
So anyone buying the stock now is betting on some special transaction such as a recapitalization or takeover , and must do so using some guesswork about the likelihood of such an event . 
, '' but that it could take three to four months to close . 
-- even if it means that the management goes back to running the company for a while and lets things return to normal . 
, even though the eventual price might be higher . 
On Friday , they also persuaded the UAL flight attendants to join them . 
However , investment bankers say that banks are n't likely to lend the almost $ 5 billion that would be necessary for a takeover even at a lower price without someone putting up a hefty wad of cash -- probably even greater than the 17 % in cash put up by investors in the leveraged takeover of Northwest Airlines parent NWA Corp. in July . 
, because they would be losing their money before the banks lost theirs . 
before the banks lost theirs . 
Banks also want to be able to call someone on the telephone to fix a problem with a deal that goes bad -- preferably someone other than a union leader . 
But it is n't clear that banks would lend sufficient money to deliver a big enough price to shareholders . 
before management supplied a 1989 projection . 
And using liquidation value assuming the sale of all UAL assets , First Boston estimated the airline is worth $ 253 to $ 303 a share . 
before airline industry fundamentals deteriorated during the past month . 
until the moving parts stop moving . '' 
In the meantime , the arbs are bleeding . 
The Weston , Mass. , utilities and marine-transport concern said results for the third quarter , usually a money-losing one because of the seasonality of the gas business , were also aided by higher gas sales and the May 1989 acquisition of Water Products Company . 
while other computer companies falter , reported an 87 % increase in third-quarter net income from a year earlier and a 50 % increase in revenue . 
Convex also recently agreed to use Posix , a standard for the computer language called UNIX . 
, but it is increasingly required by the federal government as it tries to standardize its computer systems . 
as it tries to standardize its computer systems . 
, '' he said . 
`` But the customer does n't want that . '' 
But the spokesman confirmed that Saatchi has received several inquiries from companies interested in acquiring its Campbell-Mithun and Rowland units . 
as Saatchi is struggling through the most troubled period in its 19-year history . 
, and its largest shareholder , Southeastern Asset Management , has said it 's been approached by third parties regarding a possible restructuring . 
, and their outlook , at least for the short term , is bleak . 
And last week , people close to Saatchi said Maurice Saatchi and his brother , Charles , would lead a buy-out if a hostile bid emerged . 
if a hostile bid emerged . 
But Saatchi 's troubles have only whipped up interest among outsiders interested in picking off pieces of its ad businesses . 
. 
Campbell-Mithun-Esty , for example , has had big problems at its New York office , but offers strong offices in other areas of the country , including Minneapolis and Chicago . 
. -RRB- 
Campbell-Mithun also would be a sizable addition to an agency network : It has billings of about $ 850 million and blue-chip clients including General Mills , Jeep\/Eagle and Dow Brands . 
Rowland , meanwhile , has expanded aggressively , and now ranks as the fifth-largest U.S. public relations firm , according to O'Dwyer's Directory of Public Relations Firms . 
and which has been attempting to buy itself back ; and Howard Marlboro , a sports and event marketing firm . 
It also contends that Young & Rubicam never told the tourist board about its relationship with Ad Ventures , a Jamaican firm hired by the agency . 
The memo also chastises the agency for the timing of its announcement Thursday that it would no longer handle the $ 5 million to $ 6 million account . 
until a new agency is chosen . 
Also participating in the finals was Los Angeles agency Hakuhodo Advertising America . 
, but a deal is n't yet close to being completed . 
The company also reassigned several executive responsibilities . 
He is currently experiencing what it 's like to have the phrase , `` under investigation for scientific fraud , '' also attached to his name . 
while he was under consideration to succeed Joshua Lederberg as head of the prestigious Rockefeller research institution . 
, whose behavior reminded Dr. Baltimore of the McCarthy era . 
, and Dutch-elm-disease researcher Gary Strobel 's own colleagues at Montana State denounce him for `` violating '' EPA rules . 
or that a David Baltimore could have somehow placated a John Dingell . 
. 
, today it is also about power . 
, but they also attract the attention of people who wish to gain control over the content , funding and goals of that work . 
, but they also attract the attention of people who wish to gain control over the content , funding and goals of that work . 
. 
. 
. 
. '' 
But what about all those non-duck ducks flapping over Washington ? 
and then the administration watches helplessly , wondering where all the `` unexpected '' costs came from . 
and then the administration watches helplessly , wondering where all the `` unexpected '' costs came from . 
Consider , for instance , the very fat fowl known as federalized child care . 
, and they 'd regulate the storage facilities . 
, but that 's only the beginning . 
, but economist Michael Evans estimates that the costs for firms will actually be in the $ 60 billion a year range . 
The House bill also distorts economic efficiency in all sorts of perverse ways . 
For example , the administration proposal imposes extremely tough emissions standards on new power plants . 
So instead of building more efficient modern plants , utilities stick scrubbers on the old plants . 
The bill also imposes the California auto-emissions standards on all cars nationwide , as if a car registered in Big Sky , Montana , needed to be as clean as one driven in Los Angeles . 
, as if a car registered in Big Sky , Montana , needed to be as clean as one driven in Los Angeles . 
, because nobody knows what the bill entails . 
as suits roll through the courts . 
Running for President in 1980 and 1988 , George Bush also persuasively diagnosed the economic stagnation of the 1970s . 
In fact , during last year 's campaign , the entire nation constantly heard Mr. Bush tout his accomplishments as head of the Task Force on Regulatory Relief . 
when he was head of the task force . 
But with the impending passage of these new programs , Mr. Bush will surely be sending many people hurtling back into the regulatory thicket that he had helped cut back . 
Then it turned up , and by one estimate the number will be up to about 109,000 regulators by next year . 
, and by one estimate the number will be up to about 109,000 regulators by next year . 
We would have thought by now , though , that there was a significant core of people involved in government life who understood that direct taxation is n't the only way to slow down an economy . 
But while they are unloading these burdens , the United States is close to creating three more big ones . 
. 
if trade figures for September , due for release tomorrow , fail to show a substantial improvement from July and August 's near-record deficits . 
But analysts reckon underlying support for sterling has been eroded by the chancellor 's failure to announce any new policy measures in his Mansion House speech last Thursday . 
, '' noted Simon Briscoe , U.K. economist for Midland Montagu , a unit of Midland Bank PLC . 
, but few economists expect the data to show a very marked improvement from the # 2 billion -LRB- $ 3.2 billion -RRB- deficit in the current account reported for August . 
However , Mr. Dillow said he believes that a reduction in raw material stockbuilding by industry could lead to a sharp drop in imports . 
Mr. Briscoe , who also forecasts a # 1.3 billion current account gap , warns that even if the trade figures are bullish for sterling , the currency wo n't advance much because investors will want to see further evidence of the turnaround before adjusting positions . 
because investors will want to see further evidence of the turnaround before adjusting positions . 
because investors will want to see further evidence of the turnaround before adjusting positions . 
before adjusting positions . 
Nevertheless , he noted , `` No one will want to go into the trade figures without a flat position '' in the pound . 
Meanwhile , overall evidence on the economy remains fairly clouded . 
as the impact of the last rise in interest rates earlier this month takes effect . 
But consumer expenditure data released Friday do n't suggest that the U.K. economy is slowing that quickly . 
, '' but suggestions that much of the spending went on services rather than consumer goods should reduce fears of more import rises . 
if necessary to both ensure that a substantial slowdown does take place and that sterling does n't decline further . 
and that sterling does n't decline further . 
if necessary . 
And , they warn , any further drop in the government 's popularity could swiftly make this promise sound hollow . 
, both to halt any further decline and ensure that the balance of monetary policy remains unchanged . 
as concerns about equities abated . 
The U.S. currency was also changing hands at 142.43 yen , up from 141.70 yen in New York late Thursday . 
The letter , attached to a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission , said the approval is also contingent upon obtaining satisfactory financing . 
East Rock also said in the filing that it boosted its stake in A.P. Green to 8.7 % . 
, and rates are starting to move up '' at a rate `` close to or slightly more than the inflation rate , '' said Clifford Sayre , director of logistics at Du Pont Co . 
But with much of the inefficiency squeezed out of the freight-transport system , rising costs are likely to be reflected directly in higher freight rates . 
as carriers replace equipment , pay higher fuel costs and pay more for labor . 
, and at least two competitors have announced similar increases . 
And `` shippers are getting the feeling that they have played one trucker off against another as much as they can , '' he said . 
And Japan Air Lines said it plans to boost its rates a further 25 % over the next two years . 
And ship lines carrying containers are also trying to raise their rates . 
And ship lines carrying containers are also trying to raise their rates . 
After the three members of the court introduced themselves , the chairman of the panel said : `` Go ahead and tell us what happened . 
as you go along , or we may wait until the end . '' 
, or we may wait until the end . '' 
, then the chairman said they would like to hear his manager 's side and talk to witnesses . 
, then the chairman said they would like to hear his manager 's side and talk to witnesses . 
, but the incident described is real . 
, '' and it is likely to hear a couple of dozen cases a year . 
and it could be taking place today at Federal Express in Memphis , the Defense and Underseas Systems divisions of Honeywell in Minneapolis , a General Electric plant in Columbia , Md. , or a number of other companies . 
. 
, else the company court or adjudicators will be inundated with cases . 
, for it is the `` law '' governing company courts and adjudicators . 
so that they can resolve problems immediately . 
, for in a good due-process system they are bound to happen . 
and then switches hats and arbitrates the facts -- has such advantages as speed , flexibility and maximum privacy . 
unless employees know about it . 
On the other hand , they make sure at a minimum that their systems are described in their employee handbooks and talked up by personnel specialists . 
, while 181 issues remained unchanged . 
, '' a trader at Dai-ichi Securities said , adding , though , that the trading mood remained positive through the afternoon session . 
But the Nikkei fell an overall 1.8 % in value that day compared with Wall Street 's far sharper 6.9 % drop on Oct. 13 . 
as they spent more time on analyzing factors that caused the Friday plunge and realized these problems were unique to New York stocks and not directly related to Tokyo . 
But further major advances on the Nikkei are n't foreseen this week by market observers . 
and how the dollar will be stabilized . 
and Kirin added 60 to 2,070 . 
and Ohbayashi added 50 to 1,730 . 
and Mochida advanced 230 to 4,400 . 
, although it recouped some of the sharp losses staged early last week on the back of Wall Street 's fall . 
London was weak throughout Friday 's trading , however , on what dealers attributed to generally thin interest ahead of the weekend and this week 's potentially important U.K. trade figures for September . 
before it eased to an intraday low late in the session when a flurry of program selling pushed Wall Street lower . 
after aggressively supporting the market Thursday in their quest to cover internal shortages of FT-SE 100 shares . 
after announcing its withdrawal from the UAL deal . 
, while Hillsdown Holdings , a food products concern , was boosted 2 to 271 after it disclosed it would seek shareholder approval to begin share repurchases . 
after it disclosed it would seek shareholder approval to begin share repurchases . 
if it knows of coup plans likely to endanger their lives , government officials said . 
since President Bush disclosed them privately to seven Republican senators at a White House meeting last Monday . 
, officials said , apparently because the U.S. did n't think the coup plotters intended to kill Mr. Noriega , but merely sought to imprison him . 
However , the disclosure of the guidelines , first reported last night by NBC News , is already being interpreted on Capitol Hill as an unfair effort to pressure Congress . 
, and it is unfair for those in the White House who are leaking to present the evidence in a selective fashion . '' 
because that would violate classification rules . 
But the chairman and other committee members stressed that the notification guideline was n't imposed on the White House by a meddling Congress . 
Instead , both congressional and administration officials agreed , it grew out of talks about coup-planning in Panama that were initiated by the administration in July 1988 and stretched into last October . 
In fact , yesterday the administration and Congress were still differing on what had been agreed to . 
even if the U.S. `` gets wind '' of somebody else 's coup plans that seem likely to endanger a dictator 's life . 
But a congressional source close to the panel said the rule only covered coup plans directly involving the U.S. . 
. 
, officials recalled , partly because the Reagan administration had sought unsuccessfully to win committee approval of funding for new Panama coup efforts . 
In addition , both administration and congressional officials said the need for guidelines on coups and assassinations was partly spurred by a White House desire to avoid nasty overseas surprises during the election campaign . 
. 
However , last week Mr. Webster 's two top CIA deputies said congressional curbs had n't hampered the spy agency 's role in the coup attempt in Panama . 
Nevertheless , the administration 's criticisms appeared to have made some headway with Sens. Boren and Cohen after their Oct. 12 meeting with the president . 
The new argument over the notification guideline , however , could sour any atmosphere of cooperation that existed . 
-LRB- they had been in Britain for a century -RRB- , but they did n't boom until the money market fund was created in the 1970s . 
until the money market fund was created in the 1970s . 
. 
, money market funds also helped rewrite banking regulations . 
just as the regulator handling such operations was retiring . 
-LRB- and reached $ 1 billion in assets in one year . -RRB- 
after the SEC set standards -- an average 120-day maturity of high-grade paper -- that are still the rule . 
The new instrument also introduced many to the industry -- 30 % of fund owners -LRB- there are more than 54 million accounts -RRB- started with a money fund . 
But agreement aparently could n't be reached because of opposition from the states of Hamburg and Bremen , which are demanding more influence over the German Airbus operations and a better guarantee against job losses in the troubled Northern German region . 
, but their stake will fall to around 30 % after Daimler-Benz acquires its stake in the concern . 
after Daimler-Benz acquires its stake in the concern . 
But inflation , as measured by the GNP deflator in Thursday 's report , is expected to rise only 3.5 % , down from 4.6 % in the second quarter . 
, '' he added . 
because profits are crumbling , '' says Michael K. Evans , president of Evans Economics Inc. , Washington . 
On the other hand , Mr. Evans expects the hurricane and the earthquake `` to take a hunk out of fourth-quarter GNP . '' 
largely because he believes current inventories are n't as low as official figures indicate . 
and personal consumption increased 0.9 % . 
after ranging between 9 % and 11 % for much of the previous year . 
. 
Yet under its 45-year-old president , Trelleborg moved aggressively into those unfashionable base industries -- first strengthening its existing rubber and plastics division , later adding mining as well as building and construction materials . 
, later adding mining as well as building and construction materials . 
But going against the grain has never bothered Mr. Andersson . 
. '' 
The board had also been expected to approve a SKr1.5 billion international offering of new Trelleborg shares . 
But that share issue -- intended to make Trelleborg better known among international investors -- was postponed until market conditions stabilize , people familiar with the situation say . 
until market conditions stabilize , people familiar with the situation say . 
But the foundation bylaws require the entire Trelleborg stake to be sold in the open market if control drops below 50 % . 
if control drops below 50 % . 
as repeated new share offerings to finance Trelleborg 's rapid growth steadily diluted the foundation 's holding . 
, if not outright loss makers . 
and pretax profit surged almost twelvefold . 
when Ernst Herslow steps down next year . 
But the promotion is n't likely to alter a management style Mr. Andersson describes as `` being the driving force leading the troops , not managing by sitting back with a cigar waiting for people to bring me ideas . '' 
`` But we certainly like what we 've seen so far . '' 
But Trelleborg still must clear some tough hurdles . 
But Trelleborg still must clear some tough hurdles . 
But analysts caution an expected fall in metal prices next year could slow profit growth . 
, and that the Swedes -- relatively inexperienced in international mining operations -- could have problems holding their own with a much bigger partner like Noranda operating on its home turf . 
But such partnerships are common in mining , where there are n't problems or conflict of interest or risk of cheating by a partner , '' Trelleborg 's president says . 
, '' Mr. Andersson says . 
And investment is the key word for base metals , and most other businesses Trelleborg is in . 
Mr. Sculley also indicated that sagging margins , which dogged the company through most of 1989 , began to turn up in the fourth quarter as chip prices eased . 
as chip prices eased . 
For all of fiscal 1989 , however , the average gross margin was 49 % , below the average 1988 gross margin of 51 % . 
Separately , the board expanded to six members with the election of David L. Holewinski , a consultant . 
The company also said it privately placed stock and warrants in exchange for $ 750,000 . 
Also , Larry A. Kushkin , executive vice president , North American operations , was named head of the company 's international automotive operations , another new position . 
, the company said , and his new position reflects `` the growing importance of the world automotive market as a market for A. Schulman 's high performance plastic materials . '' 
, and Mr. Kushkin 's former position is n't being filled at this time , the company said . 
, but we know where one waste dump is . 
The central offices for both regions were previously located in Ludwigshafen , Basf headquarters . 
as he leaves the room . 
In addition , the government is scheduled to unveil plans for privatizing Philippine Airlines , the national carrier , an effort that lawyer and business columnist Rodolfo Romero calls `` the bellwether of privatization . '' 
But efforts have been thwarted by official indifference , bureaucratic resistance , a legal system that operates at a snail 's pace , political opposition and government misjudgments . 
as the government tackles several big assets . 
since it began functioning in December 1986 . 
But its success has been largely in the sale of small , nonperforming companies , which are valued for their assets . 
because almost every problem that has hobbled the program in the past is popping up again . 
when the trust failed to sell a state-owned commercial bank , Associated Bank , for the minimum price of 671 million pesos -LRB- $ 31 million -RRB- . 
But instead of a minimum price , only a target price will be established . 
Bankers say , however , that the government may have difficulty selling the institution even without a floor price . 
In addition , special bidding rules give the bank 's former owner , Leonardo Ty , the right to match the highest bid . 
Separately , the government will try again within a month to sell the 36 % stake in Paper Industries Corp. of the Philippines , or Picop , as the paper mill is known . 
But according to bankers and stock analysts who have studied the paper mill , price is n't the only consideration . 
after the 36 % stake is sold . 
and other shareholders own the rest of the equity . -RRB- 
and what changes the agency may be able to offer . 
Under government regulations , however , foreign ownership of Picop 's equity is limited to 40 % . 
. 
but it remains debt-laden and poorly managed . 
Their indicated market values thus are about $ 43.3 million and $ 28.6 million , respectively . 
and their business philosophies are similar and conservative . '' 
It is not quite true , for example , that the Mexican government has `` privatized '' Mexicana de Aviacion , as Mr. Ortiz claims . 
when he reports that the government still retains 40 % of the total equity of the airline . 
'' if the state is so heavily represented in it ? 
, but its propensity to take back what it gives is too well known to permit one to be sanguine . -RRB- 
'' when he boasts that `` fewer than 392 -LCB- state enterprises -RCB- currently remain in the public sector , '' down from the `` 1,155 public entities that existed in 1982 . 
'' But the enterprises still in state hands include the biggest and most economically powerful ones in Mexico ; indeed , they virtually constitute the economic infrastructure . 
; indeed , they virtually constitute the economic infrastructure . 
Those enterprises , however , are not going to be privatized . 
, '' and their privatization is prohibited by the Mexican Constitution . 
Yet clearly , modernization must embrace its key industries before it can be said to have caught the `` privatization bug . '' 
before it can be said to have caught the `` privatization bug . '' 
The bottom line , however , is not economic but political reform . 
The third-largest thrift institution in Puerto Rico also said it expects a return to profitability in the third quarter when it reports operating results this week . 
when it reports operating results this week . 
while leaving some stock in public hands , according to people familiar with the group . 
But to avoid the risk of rejection , the group does n't plan to submit the plan formally at a UAL board meeting today . 
Instead , the group is raising the proposal informally to try to test the board 's reaction . 
after banks would n't raise needed loans and after a key partner , British Airways PLC , dropped out . 
and after a key partner , British Airways PLC , dropped out . 
after banks would n't raise needed loans and after a key partner , British Airways PLC , dropped out . 
But the pilots union , which has been pushing for a takeover since 1987 , appears to be pressing ahead with the revised bid to avoid further loss of momentum even though it has n't found a partner to replace British Air . 
even though it has n't found a partner to replace British Air . 
. 
. 
that could then be used to finance a cash payment to current holders . 
Those current holders would also receive minority interests in the new company . 
For example , the group could offer $ 200 a share in cash plus stock valued at $ 30 a share . 
yet retain a controlling ownership interest . 
, but employees would keep more than 50 % . 
, and the public could get more than the 15 % control that had been earmarked for British Air . 
. 
because its members can be ousted by a majority shareholder vote , particularly since one-third of UAL stock is held by takeover stock speculators who favor a sale . 
, particularly since one-third of UAL stock is held by takeover stock speculators who favor a sale . 
However , the only outsider who has emerged to lead such a shareholder vote , Los Angeles investor Marvin Davis , who triggered the buy-out with a $ 5.4 billion bid in early August , is hanging back -- apparently to avoid being blamed for contributing to the deal 's collapse . 
But Citicorp has lost some credibility because it also led the unsuccessful effort to gain bank loans for the labor-management group . 
because it also led the unsuccessful effort to gain bank loans for the labor-management group . 
But Citicorp has lost some credibility because it also led the unsuccessful effort to gain bank loans for the labor-management group . 
However , several people said that British Air might yet rejoin the bidding group and that the carrier made the statement to answer questions from British regulators about how it plans to use proceeds of a securities offering previously earmarked for the UAL buy-out . 
and that the carrier made the statement to answer questions from British regulators about how it plans to use proceeds of a securities offering previously earmarked for the UAL buy-out . 
Also late last week , UAL flight attendants agreed to participate with the pilots in crafting a revised offer . 
But the machinists union , whose opposition helped scuttle the first buy-out bid , is likely to favor a recapitalization with a friendly third-party investor . 
Speculation has also arisen that the UAL executive most closely identified with the failure to gain bank financing , chief financial officer John Pope , may come under pressure to resign . 
However , people familiar with the buy-out group said Mr. Pope 's departure would weaken the airline 's management at a critical time . 
The magazines , also ad-supported , will be distributed in more than 10,000 doctors ' offices , clinics , and health centers in Hispanic and largely Hispanic communities . 
It noted , however , that it has n't determined any specific terms of a possible transaction . 
, while its gold reserves were virtually unchanged at $ 11.07 billion . 
, and its reserve position at the IMF increased $ 142 million , to $ 8.79 billion . 
Harry Rossi , 69 , chairman of the holding company , also remains chairman of Manhattan National Life Insurance Co . 
But UAL 's board is n't expected to give quick approval to any offer substantially below the $ 300-a-share bid that collapsed recently . 
after Ford concluded that the cost to modernize Saab 's car operations would outweigh the likely return . 
, but junk bonds and the dollar rose . 
if the group does n't adopt new quotas . 
as the London-based ad giant struggles through its most difficult period ever . 
because , it said , the size of the production runs submitted for testing to gain FDA approval was in each case misrepresented as much larger than it actually was . 
It also temporarily closed Quantum , because of the internal investigation , as well as the FDA 's ongoing inquiry . 
because the company went public in January . 
because the maintenance and expansions are complete . 
because the maintenance and expansions are complete . 
, but their leadership also recommended approval . 
Four other unions have yet to vote , but their leadership also recommended approval . 
but Aoun rejected it . 
, but the Christian military leader wad the plan was `` full of ambiguities . '' 
. 
after finding a survivor in a collapsed freeway , the San Francisco Bay area girded for hundreds of thousands of commuters seeking to avoid routes ravaged by last Tuesday 's tremor . 
after Bush disclosed it to seven GOP senators last week , citing the plan as an example of congressional requirements the administration contends contribute to the failure of covert actions , officials said . 
The jury also convicted them of extortion in obtaining a $ 20,000 interest-free loan from an officer of the defunct defense contractor . 
as it approached the capital 's airport in high winds and low clouds . 
The Labor Party , meanwhile , threatened to support a parliamentary motion to topple the coalition unless Shamir showed flexibility on Arab-Israeli talks . 
unless Shamir showed flexibility on Arab-Israeli talks . 
, but there has been sporadic fighting . 
, while federal-systems earnings declined 33 % to $ 4 million from $ 6 million . 
and minutes of long-distance use rose about 12 % . 
before you can make jokes , '' says an East German mother of two who loves swapping political barbs with her friends . 
when the 52-year-old Politburo member was selected last week to succeed Erich Honecker . 
But he does n't appear to be ready to make broad changes either . 
. 
The regular nightly news program and daily newspapers are also getting a visible injection of Soviet-style glasnost . 
But whether such moves can win back the confidence of East Germans , who have taken to the streets by the thousands in recent weeks to demand democratic changes , depends largely on whether they feel they can trust Mr. Krenz . 
And that 's a problem . 
, but also blamed for ordering violent police action against protesters this month and for praising China for sending tanks against student demonstrators . 
. 
Indeed , one of his first actions as leader was to visit a gritty machine factory on the outskirts of Berlin and wander among the workers -- a la Gorbachev . 
He was later shown on television , fielding questions . 
But there 's another side to Mr. Krenz . 
, but she doubts he 's a true reformer . 
. 
`` But if he 's sharp and quick , he has a chance . '' 
. '' 
And his relative youth could help him project a more vibrant image , contrasting with the perception of Mr. Honecker as an out-of-touch old man . 
, or he is n't being real right now , '' says a 30-year-old East German doctor . 
, '' says the doctor , `` because it 's information I still ca n't get through the newspapers . '' 
. 
, '' says the East Berlin shopkeeper , `` But everyone I know laughed about it . 
But the experiments continue to be plagued by lack of firm evidence that the extra heat is coming from the fusing of hydrogen atoms . 
But some members of an ad hoc expert committee set up by the Department of Energy to evaluate the cold fusion research were in the audience . 
. 
But Messrs. Fleischmann and Pons said their experiments also produced large amounts of heat . 
But Messrs. Fleischmann and Pons said their experiments also produced large amounts of heat . 
. 
Because they also detected tritium and indications of nuclear radiation , they asserted that the `` excess '' heat energy must be coming from energy released by the nuclear fusion of deuterium atoms inside the palladium rod . 
As of last weekend , a dozen labs also have reported measuring `` excess '' heat from similar electrolytic experiments , although amounts of such heat vary widely . 
, although amounts of such heat vary widely . 
when his first experiments last spring failed to produce results . 
But he then borrowed a palladium rod from chemists at Texas A&M who said they were getting excess heat . On the fourth `` run '' with the borrowed rod , the experiment began producing excess heat . 
But he then borrowed a palladium rod from chemists at Texas A&M who said they were getting excess heat . 
, he said . 
before dying down , he said . 
and then at totally unpredictable times , it would begin producing excess heat for as long as 10 or 11 hours before quieting down . 
and then at totally unpredictable times , it would begin producing excess heat for as long as 10 or 11 hours before quieting down . 
before quieting down . 
Other scientists said they also were getting sporadic bursts of excess heat lasting several hours at a time . 
, they said , after they `` perturbed '' the experiments by raising or lowering the amount of electric current being applied , or switching the current off and on . 
and the excess energy is measured in tenths of a watt . 
, so it 's been difficult to tell whether the tritium formation is related to the heat bursts or some other phenomenon . 
but later conceded the measurements were questionable . 
, but only once during 411 hours of the experiment did they detect a neutron burst in all three detectors -- and they think that was a spurious event . 
-- and they think that was a spurious event . 
until they could confirm it . 
but neutron bursts were never recorded in both detectors at the same time . 
so it will conduct a current can produce previously unsuspected electrical effects on the surface of the palladium rod -- which Messrs. Fleischmann and Pons might have misinterpreted , reported Philip Ross from the California laboratory . 
The Journal also will offer expanded volume and frequency discounts . 
, and rates for localized advertising editions will increase 7.5 % . 
and also printed in Singapore and Tokyo , will rise 8 % . 
Dow Jones also publishes Barron 's magazine , other periodicals and community newspapers and operates electronic business information services . 
and sales dropped slightly from a year earlier . 
In addition , cost increases related to fixed-price defense contracts and a $ 10 million charge to reduce the work force of Texas Instruments ' defense-electronics division also reduced net . 
In addition , cost increases related to fixed-price defense contracts and a $ 10 million charge to reduce the work force of Texas Instruments ' defense-electronics division also reduced net . 
However , the quarter results included $ 28 million in royalty income from patent licenses , up from $ 21 million in the year-earlier period . 
, '' he said , `` and we will take ongoing cost-reduction actions as necessary to keep operations aligned with demand . '' 
Further , he said , an internal reorganization to combine several divisions into the Information Technology Group is expected to affect fourth-quarter results by an undisclosed amount . 
It is also a partner in the wireline cellular franchise covering most of western New Mexico . 
, Mr. Edgar says . 
Photographic developers , for example , bought equipment to recover silver from spent photographs , negatives and processing solutions . 
Meanwhile , the photographic industry , which accounts for 44 % of silver consumption , continues to look for substitutes . 
Silver 's history of volatility is also discouraging investors , dealers say . 
, dealers say . 
Silver , however is in a deeper slump than are gold and platinum . 
now that prices are languishing at levels last seen in the mid-1970s . 
, while low prices are discouraging exports from India and the Soviet Union . 
Silver prices could also be boosted by strikes in leading producing nations Peru and Mexico , Mr. Demler says . 
Meanwhile , total fabrication demand for silver has risen six years in a row , he says . 
and the nation plans an issue of a silver commemorative coin that will require 4.5 million ounces . 
`` Silver production is also in an inexorable upward trend , '' Ms. O'Connell says . 
Moreover , while Asian and Middle Eastern investors hoard gold and help underpin its price , silver does n't have the same mystique , dealers say . 
, dealers say . 
Yet if gold prices improve , silver prices could rally sharply , he says . 
, he says . 
However , dealers caution that any increase would be $ 1 to $ 2 at most . 
. 
, so a decline signals a tightening supply of beef . 
because the drought dried out the pasture on their ranches . 
The number of cattle moving onto feedlots in the recent quarter was also lower because fattening cattle is less profitable . 
because fattening cattle is less profitable . 
The Agriculture Department also said that the number of fattened cattle slaughtered in the quarter dropped by 5 % from the 1988 quarter , which was in line with projections by analysts . 
and that such a trend could well continue in the next several trading sessions . 
For example , copper for December delivery settled 4.5 cents lower at $ 1.2345 a pound . 
when the contract 's price fell below it . 
until the close of trading . 
But whether this price break has implications for this week , he said , `` we will know more when the London Metal Exchange copper stock levels are released Monday morning . '' 
when the London Metal Exchange copper stock levels are released Monday morning . '' 
when the weekly report is issued . 
. 
He also noted that the Japanese , who had been buying at prices just above the $ 1.25 level , apparently pulled back from the market on Friday . 
. 
It then determines which machine is free to do the task most quickly and sends the task to that machine . 
as people move to this new model of distributed processing . '' 
while others are overtaxed . 
A previously available program called Network Computing System , developed by Hewlett-Packard 's Apollo division , for instance , takes a task and splits it up into parts , divvying up those parts to several computers in a network for simultaneous processing . 
But programs in individual computers must be revised in order to work with that system . 
, Hewlett-Packard said , and the user of a computer wo n't be able to tell that another machine is doing the work . 
, '' says Murray Riese , co-owner of National Restaurants , a New York franchisee for Pizza Hut , Roy Rogers and other chains . 
. 
, but in the last year or so , discounting has become a 12-month thing , '' says Donald Harty , president of Charisma Group Inc. , a New York franchisee of Grand Metropolitan PLC 's Burger King chain . 
. 
And Bill Konopnicki , a Safford , Ariz. , licensee of McDonald 's Corp. who is chairman of the company 's National Operators Advisory Board , says some fast-food outlets `` could be in serious trouble , based on the amount of discounting that seems to be going on . '' 
But early this year , PepsiCo Inc. 's Taco Bell unit and Wendy 's International Inc. slashed prices and stepped up promotions , says John Rohs , an analyst for Wertheim Schroder & Co . 
It also decided to go national with pizza , which it has been test-marketing . 
, but we are n't increasing sales . '' 
unless they get a coupon . '' 
, predicts Vincent Morrissey , who owns a string of Kentucky Fried Chicken stores in the Midwest . 
. '' 
`` McDonald 's has also been running negative all year , '' the analyst says . 
But Mr. Greenberg 's sanguine outlook is n't matched by many fast-food industry observers . 
But once a franchisee agrees to a promotional program , the franchiser can demand full participation to the very end , says Lew Rudnick , a principal of Rudnick & Wolfe , a Chicago law firm with franchise industry clients . 
, says Lew Rudnick , a principal of Rudnick & Wolfe , a Chicago law firm with franchise industry clients . 
. 
Otherwise , actual profit is compared with the 300-day estimate . 
Otherwise , actual profit is compared with the 300-day estimate . 
But these players were dead . 
, and awhile back there were Babe Ruth checks , '' says Mr. Smalling . 
However , the thought of a living player selling his checks rubs some people the wrong way . 
, but I would n't sell them , '' sniffs Bob Machon , owner of Papa 's Sports Cards in Menlo Park , Calif . 
And Mr. Smalling does n't believe they 're worth all that much now . 
And Mr. Jackson probably has opened new checking accounts , too . 
Or at least he should . 
He does add , however , that transplanted Japanese car makers are boosting the levels of U.S.-made steel in their autos , instead of relying heavily on imported steel . 
Indeed , USX said it expects the market for coated sheet steel to reach 12 million tons annually by 1992 , compared with 10.2 million tons shipped in 1988 . 
, while overall steel shipments were up only 2.4 % . 
, but this marks the first so-called greenfield plant for such production . 
Moreover , it will boost by 50 % USX 's current hot-dipped capacity of 1,275,000 tons . 
Steelmakers have also been adding capacity of so-called electrogalvanized steel , which is another way to make coated corrosion-resistant steel . 
? 
if you do n't know what you 're doing . 
So here 's a rundown of the most common types of market orders permitted by the stock and commodity exchanges . 
And even when a specific order is acceptable to an exchange , a brokerage firm can refuse to enter it for a customer . 
. 
, since it imposes no price restrictions . 
'' or `` get me out now . '' 
For example , if wheat is being offered at $ 4.065 and bid at $ 4.060 , a market order to buy would be filled at the higher price and a market order to sell at the lower price . 
. 
Profits realized from these trades would then be shared by the conspiring brokers . 
when investors want to restrict the amount they will receive or pay for an investment . 
if the stock reaches 54 and then falls . 
and then falls . 
. 
because there may not be sufficient trading volume to permit filling it at the specified price . 
once the price reaches a certain level . 
. 
, and the order is filled at whatever price the broker can get . 
because they are frequently used to protect profits or limit losses . 
: Sell stops must be entered at a price below the current market price and buy stops above . 
and buy stops above . 
In contrast , sell limit orders must be placed above the market price and buy limit orders are placed below . 
and buy limit orders are placed below . 
when the stock opened at that price on Monday . 
when an investment trades at the price specified in the order . 
when the stop price is hit -- stop-limit orders demand that the trades be made only at the specified price . 
. 
But if the market moves quickly enough , it may be impossible for the broker to carry out the order because the investment has passed the specified price . 
because the investment has passed the specified price . 
because the investment has passed the specified price . 
if a specified price is reached . 
However , unlike a buy-stop order , a buy market-if-touched order is entered at a price below the current price , while a sell market-if-touched order is entered at a price above it . 
, while a sell market-if-touched order is entered at a price above it . 
. 
But if the investment ca n't be bought or sold immediately , the order is automatically canceled . 
. 
when trading options . 
, then I can start over at a new price or try again with the same price . '' 
, if they think they can get a better price by waiting . 
and then cancel the other order . 
`` Stop-close-only orders '' are stop orders that only become active during the closing minutes of trading . `` Day orders '' expire at the end of the day on which they are entered , `` good-till-canceled orders '' have no expiration date . For example , `` market-on-close orders '' must be filled during the last few minutes of trading for the day at a price that is within the official closing range of prices as determined by the exchange . 
'' and then forgetting about them . 
after an order has been filled are , usually , stuck with the consequences . 
But investors better not ignore its limitations , either . 
So a stock with a beta of 0.5 is half as volatile , one at 1.5 is 50 % more volatile , and so on . 
Remember , though , that beta also has important limitations . 
Remember , though , that beta also has important limitations . 
, and the beta does n't tell you the magnitude of that . '' 
In particular , beta does n't measure the company - and industry-specific risk associated with an individual stock . 
, but it virtually disappears in a large and well-diversified portfolio . 
Beta is also a poor indicator of the risk in stock groups that march to their own drummer . 
In particular , the prices of gold and other precious-metals stocks shoot up and down , but the stocks tend to have low betas because their moves are not market-inspired . 
, but the stocks tend to have low betas because their moves are not market-inspired . 
because their moves are not market-inspired . 
, but the movements are not because of market movements . 
? 
. 
But therein lies another aspect of investment risk : the hazard of shaping your portfolio to avoid one or more types of risk and being blind-sided by others . 
, and investments that are low in one type of obvious risk can be distressingly high in other , less obvious kinds . 
U.S. Treasury bonds , for example , are supersafe when it comes to returning money at maturity . But their value as investments can be decimated by inflation , which erodes the purchasing power of bonds ' fixed-dollar interest payments . 
when it comes to returning money at maturity . 
But their value as investments can be decimated by inflation , which erodes the purchasing power of bonds ' fixed-dollar interest payments . 
Risk is also a function of time . 
. 
Stocks are much riskier than Treasury bills , for example , because the range in performance from the best years to the worst is much wider . 
, because the range in performance from the best years to the worst is much wider . 
But investors who are preoccupied with short-term fluctuations may be paying too little attention to another big risk -- not generating enough money to meet long-term financial and life-style goals . 
For instance , some investors have sworn off stocks since the 1987 market crash ; last Friday 's debacle only reinforced those feelings . 
But the stock market , despite some stomach-churning declines , has far outperformed other securities over extended periods . 
As a result , financial advisers say they take several steps when evaluating the riskiness of clients ' portfolios . 
when evaluating the riskiness of clients ' portfolios . 
And they eyeball types of risk that are not easily quantified . 
For instance , the insured municipal bonds that dominate the older couple 's portfolio were probably selected in large part for their low repayment risk . But they expose the holders to a lot of inflation risk and interest-rate risk . The younger couple 's stockholdings involve more risk than a diversified stock portfolio because the bulk of the money is in a single issue . 
But they expose the holders to a lot of inflation risk and interest-rate risk . 
because the bulk of the money is in a single issue . 
But one price paid for the higher expected return is greater short-term volatility , as reflected in the higher standard deviation that Seidman estimates for the younger couple 's portfolio . 
and add one standard deviation to it . 
Then take the expected return and subtract one standard deviation . 
and subtract one standard deviation . 
if all the assumptions were accurate . 
Then add and subtract two standard deviations to get a wider range . 
Indeed , the older couple 's portfolio could actually be riskier in that sense if the expected return wo n't generate enough dollars to meet their spending plans . 
if the expected return wo n't generate enough dollars to meet their spending plans . 
because they are not heavily in the stock market , '' says John H. Cammack , a financial planner with Alexandra Armstrong Advisors Inc. in Washington . 
`` But they may pay a price 10 or 20 years in the future . '' 
: Investors do n't know the actual returns that securities will deliver , or the ups and downs that will occur along the way . 
Over several decades , for instance , investors who put up with the stock market 's gyrations earned returns far in excess of those on bonds and `` cash '' investments like Treasury bills . 
But while history can suggest what is reasonable to expect there 's no guarantee that the past will repeat itself . 
. 
For instance , some analysts believe bond returns and volatility have moved permanently closer to those of the stock market . And returns on cash investments may continue to exceed inflation by a wider margin than they did over the long-term past . 
And returns on cash investments may continue to exceed inflation by a wider margin than they did over the long-term past . 
The Sandinistas of Nicaragua , for example , also are part of the Castro-Medellin cartel nexus . 
, and people want in . 
Too often , however , small investors are left with the same stale solutions that appealed to previous generations of fiduciary strategists . 
and who refuse to see their life styles hurt in any way . 
My revolutionary system is also useful for those who have tried customary forms of growing their currency cushion . 
, if only to assuage my father-in-law , who believes in such things . 
So throughout the decade I have maintained my share of individual retirement accounts and CDs , and tinkered with stocks , bonds and mutual funds , as well as preserving my necessary position in the residential real-estate market . 
when it has not been negative . 
until I divested myself of all such stocks in 1985 , at which point the industry , while not lighting up any Christmas trees , began a slow recovery . 
. 
Likewise , mutual funds remained relatively flat until I made what was , for me , a serious investment . 
until I made what was , for me , a serious investment . 
-- and the market instantly began its steady climb back to health . 
until I entered it in late 1988 , at which time it posted the first negative compound annual growth rate in years . 
since we keep disposing of it . 
, but here in Figure 2 is where I 've chosen to build for the future : personal space ; automotive pursuits ; children 's toys ; gardening equipment , bulbs and shrubs ; and finally , entertainment , perhaps the best investment of all . 
I have thus committed sufficient personal outlay to ensure that my grounds and lodgings will never be short of greens and flowers . 
Over the course of the decade , for instance , my return on investment in the area of poker alone -LRB- Figures 7A and 7B -RRB- has been most impressive , showing bodacious annual expansion with -- given the way my associates play -- no sign of abatement into the 1990s and beyond . 
, although I 'll probably have to cash in their toy portfolio to take advantage of it . 
But with every step I take , I 'm building wealth . 
, if you , like me , refuse to bite the bullet . 
So go out there and eat that debt . 
and eat that debt . 
. 
But in this case the needle has a very sharp point . 
. 
, but in effect they operate in the dark . 
So it should come as no shock that the profession , if that 's what it is , has attracted a lot of people whose principal talents seem to be frittering away or flat-out stealing their clients ' money . 
But reform has n't taken hold yet . 
, but John Gargan , a Tampa , Fla. , planner and head of one trade group , the International Association of Registered Financial Planners , thinks the danger to investors from incompetence is `` humongous , '' far greater than that from crookery . 
, but as a consumer advocate she feels impelled to take it . 
The bad news , however , has n't been bad enough to kill the growing demand for financial planning . 
, and many planners had to make an unplanned exit from the business . 
But membership in the International Association of Financial Planners -LRB- IAFP -RRB- , the industry 's biggest trade group , is still nearly triple what it was in 1980 , and it 's believed that the ranks of planners who do n't belong to any group have soared as well . 
, and it 's believed that the ranks of planners who do n't belong to any group have soared as well . 
, and the pool of capital they influence is enormous . 
-- even though the number of advisers has tripled to about 15,000 over the past decade . 
So the SEC has proposed to Congress that much of the job of oversight be turned over to an industry-funded , self-regulatory organization patterned on the National Association of Securities Dealers , which operates in the brokerage business . 
. 
because Mr. Gargan , smarting at what he considered slurs on his membership standards made by the rival group , enrolled his dog , Beauregard , as a member of the IAFP . 
Then he sent the pooch 's picture with the certificate of membership -- it was made out to `` Boris ` Bo ' Regaard '' -- to every newspaper he could think of . -RRB- 
; instead , the attorney general alleged , the company consistently shoved unwary customers into high-risk investments in paintings , coins and Florida condos . 
. '' 
And , the attorney general added , First Meridian 's president , Roger V. Sala , portrayed himself as a `` financial expert '' when his qualifications largely consisted of a high-school diploma , work as a real-estate and insurance salesman , and a stint as supervisor at a highway toll booth . 
'' when his qualifications largely consisted of a high-school diploma , work as a real-estate and insurance salesman , and a stint as supervisor at a highway toll booth . 
because he did n't have a Harvard degree , '' says Mr. Manion . 
Those companies , in turn , paid Mr. Peterson commissions and fees , the suit alleges . 
One plaintiff , a doctor , testified in an affidavit that he also gave Mr. Peterson $ 50,000 to join a sort of investment club which essentially gave the physician `` the privilege of making additional investments '' with Mr. Peterson . 
or the money returned . 
Bank officials , however , showed him the door , and the sale never came off . 
, and the sale never came off . 
But he does say that all of his activities have been `` entirely proper . '' 
Mr. Peterson also says he does n't consider himself a financial planner anymore . 
. 
Certificates of deposit do n't pay 23 % a year , for example , but that did n't give pause to clients of one Alabama planner . Now they 're losers and he 's in jail in Mobile County . 
Certificates of deposit do n't pay 23 % a year , for example , but that did n't give pause to clients of one Alabama planner . Now they 're losers and he 's in jail in Mobile County . 
and he 's in jail in Mobile County . 
-- especially when the issuing `` bank '' in the Marshall Islands is merely a mail drop watched over by a local gas-station operator -- but investors fell for that one too . 
-- especially when the issuing `` bank '' in the Marshall Islands is merely a mail drop watched over by a local gas-station operator -- but investors fell for that one too . 
And the Colorado planner who promised to make some of his clients millionaires on investments of as litle as $ 100 ? Never mind . You already know the answer . 
, while a pianist accompanies the noon fashion show with a selection of dreamy melodies . 
Meanwhile , in the squat office buildings that ring Fashion Island , the odds are good that someone is getting fleeced . 
It is also known as the fraud capital of the U.S. , dubbed by investigators and the media as the `` Cote de Fraud '' . 
and the palm trees sway lazily . 
Moreover , ostentation is appreciated . 
The rich image of Newport Beach also helps lend the con artists ' operation an air of respectability . 
But above all , this is the national headquarters for boiler-room operators , those slick-talking snake-oil salesmen who use the telephone to extract money from the gullible and the greedy and then vanish . 
and then vanish . 
. 
. '' 
And most of the truly big scams in Orange County seem to originate in Newport Beach or one of the other well-heeled communities that surround this sliver-like city that hooks around a point of land on the California coast south of Los Angeles . 
In fact , sophisticated big-bucks boiler-room scams are known generically among law-enforcement types as `` Newport Beach '' operations . 
Thus falsely reassured , investors sent $ 11.4 million to the Newport Beach company , most of which was diverted to unauthorized uses , the indictment charges . 
, since few , if any , customers ever visit their offices . 
Indeed , the name derives from the tendency among telemarketing scammers to rent cheap basement space , near the boiler room . 
But , says Mr. Katz , the U.S. attorney , `` the interesting thing about Newport Beach operations is that they give themselves the indulgence of beautiful offices , with plush furnishings . 
. '' 
and the people are picking their noses . '' 
The Newport Beach operators also tend to indulge themselves privately . 
, since boiler rooms often leave without paying rent . -RRB- 
. 
if you want the kind of returns that will buy your toddler a ticket to Prestige U. in 18 years . 
In short , throw away the passbook and go for the glory . 
and go for the glory . 
So what 's a parent to do ? 
In other words , a little volatility never hurt . 
, unless the growth funds do n't grow when you need them to . 
when you need them to . 
Or the zero-coupon bonds turn out not to have been discounted deeply enough to pay your kid 's tuition . 
. 
if the risk does n't pay off . 
And then there 's always State U . 
And then there 's always State U . 
But parents ' craving for a top-rated education for their children is growing like their taste for fancy wheels and vintage wine . 
, but Denver-based Financial Programs sells , for $ 15 , a version customized to the age of the child and the college of choice . 
when a current first-grader reaches college age , parents would need to set aside $ 773.94 a month -- for 12 years . 
if the investing keeps up through college . 
And they can further reduce the monthly amount if they start saving earlier -- when mother and child come home from the hospital . 
if they start saving earlier -- when mother and child come home from the hospital . 
if the plan begins when the child is six . 
when the child is six . 
. 
Since the formula assumes an 8 % before-tax return in a mutual fund , there would also be $ 16,500 in taxes to pay over the 12 years . 
Still , he says , `` it 's no bad thing '' if all the marketing prods people into putting aside a little more . 
'' if all the marketing prods people into putting aside a little more . 
when the time comes to pay tuition . 
because they are managed and over time have nearly kept up with the broad stock averages . 
In their anxiety , however , parents and other student benefactors are flocking to new schemes . 
And they have bought about $ 500 million in prepaid-tuition plans , offered in Michigan , Florida and Wyoming . 
so that their bonds pay off just when Junior graduates from high school . 
just when Junior graduates from high school . 
Their compounding effect is also alluring . 
But Richard Anderson , head of the Forum for College Financing Alternatives , at Columbia University , a research group partly financed by the federal government , says zeros are particularly ill-suited . 
when inflation and interest rates kick up . 
if they are held to maturity , but if , for any reason , the parents need to sell them before then , there could be a severe loss of principal . 
, but if , for any reason , the parents need to sell them before then , there could be a severe loss of principal . 
. 
Most other bonds , however , would probably not have fared much better . 
Issuing states generally limit the guarantees to in-state institutions , however , and buyers get refunds without much interest if the children do n't attend the specified schools . 
, and buyers get refunds without much interest if the children do n't attend the specified schools . 
if the children do n't attend the specified schools . 
But buyers are essentially betting on a start-up investment fund with no track record -- and some have been encouraged to borrow to do so . 
-- and some have been encouraged to borrow to do so . 
But sponsors might not pick the stocks that will match the market . 
And they 're leaning more toward fixed income , whose returns after tax have trailed tuition increases . 
if the sponsors do n't have the cash to pay the tuitions ? 
. 
, and he bought back one-pound-or-so food-fish that he `` live-hauled '' to market along with his own whiskery crop . 
And he nearly always bought and sold for cash . 
before coming up with detailed estimates of purchases and sales , in pounds and dollars , by Mr. Tharp and others . 
He also owes a lot of back taxes , interest and civil fraud penalties . 
when the U.S. Supreme Court held that members ' payments to the church were n't deductible because the members received services in return . 
because the members received services in return . 
. 
because more of them score high under that formula , not because IRS agents envy their life styles . 
because more of them score high under that formula , not because IRS agents envy their life styles . 
And laws requiring the reporting of more varieties of transactions have enabled the IRS to rely on computers to ferret out discrepancies with returns and to generate form-letter inquiries to taxpayers . 
because a payer of alimony -LRB- who gets a deduction -RRB- must report the former spouse 's Social Security number . 
But while IRS computers focus routinely on target groups like these , the agency has assigned many agents to special projects that need more personal attention . 
. 
because auditors in an area detect some pattern of abuse among , say , factory workers claiming that having a multitude of dependents frees them from tax withholding or yacht owners deducting losses from sideline charter businesses . 
, but they can make life miserable in other ways -- for one , by imposing some of the 150 different civil penalties for negligence , failure to file a return , and the like . 
And now that returns must show dependents ' Social Security numbers , the IRS wants to see which dependents show up on more than one return -- and which dependents turn out to be deceased . 
. 
-- and which dependents turn out to be deceased . 
But many others , who want to qualify for employee benefits and unemployment compensation , become tipsters for the IRS , says Jerry Lackey , who manages the IRS project 's force of nine agents in north and central Florida from Orlando . 
Firms that are paying employment taxes also provide leads to competitors that are n't , he says . 
But a medical clinic with about 20 employees wrongly listed all of them -- including physicians and receptionists -- as independent contractors . 
Revenue-short states also are becoming more aggressive pursuers of tax delinquents , and perhaps none tracks them down with more relish than does New York since it acquired an $ 80 million computer system in 1985 . 
, and perhaps none tracks them down with more relish than does New York since it acquired an $ 80 million computer system in 1985 . 
since it acquired an $ 80 million computer system in 1985 . 
The plan indeed raises from 40 % to 50 % the number of freshmen applicants admitted strictly by academic criteria . 
But that does n't mean `` half of the students attending Berkeley '' will be admitted this way . 
. 
In addition , perhaps 5 % of registrants will come from a new category consisting of applicants whose academic credentials `` narrowly missed '' gaining them admission in the first category . 
But against that combined increase of 12 % in students chosen by academic criteria , the plan eliminates a large category in which admissions now are based on grades , test scores and `` supplemental points '' for factors such as high-school curriculum , English-language proficiency and an essay . 
The plan thus will decrease by 22 % , for a net loss of 10 % , the number of students admitted primarily by academic criteria . 
But the new category does not replace or reduce Berkeley 's broad racial preferences . 
Nor will students from racial-minority groups who are admitted through the new category be counted against the affirmative-action `` target '' for their group . 
The plan thus places a large new affirmative-action program , based on `` socioeconomic disadvantage , '' on top of the existing program based on race . 
The role of academic criteria in choosing Berkeley 's freshmen can only decline as a result . 
But what we may not know is just what makes somebody a sucker . 
, once it is built ? 
Because in the end , these people always wind up asking themselves the same question : `` How could I be so stupid ? '' 
Because in the end , these people always wind up asking themselves the same question : `` How could I be so stupid ? '' 
-- and scam artists know all of them . 
. '' 
, then they know what buttons to push . '' 
-- and he ought to know . 
, in part because get-rich-quick tales have become embedded in American folklore . 
, in part because get-rich-quick tales have become embedded in American folklore . 
, and our society puts an emphasis on it with lotteries and Ed McMahon making millionaires out of people , '' says Michael Cunningham , an associate professor of psychology at the University of Kentucky in Louisville . 
, and the rest who toil daily do n't want to miss that opportunity when it seems to come along . '' 
when it seems to come along . '' 
when the odds are great against them ? 
Clearly , though , scam artists have to be a bit more subtle than simply promising millions ; the psychology of suckers is n't simply the psychology of the greedy . 
There 's also , for instance , the need to be part of the in-crowd . 
There 's also , for instance , the need to be part of the in-crowd . 
So one popular ploy is to make a prospective investor feel like an insider , joining an exclusive group that is about to make a killing . 
Between 1978 and 1987 , for instance , SH Oil in Winter Haven , Fla. , sold interests in oil wells to a very select group of local residents , while turning away numerous other eager investors . 
, while turning away numerous other eager investors . 
and that they are part of a chosen group being given this opportunity . '' 
It also adds to the mystery of the venture . 
, '' he says . 
But Mr. Wenz , who says he lost $ 43,000 in one precious-metals deal and $ 39,000 in another , says a salesman `` used a business-venture approach '' with him , sending investment literature , a contract limiting the firm 's liability , and an insurance policy . 
. '' 
For instance , salesmen may counter a man 's objection that he wants to discuss an investment with his wife by asking , `` Who wears the pants in your family ? '' Or an investor who wants his accountant 's advice may be told , `` You seem like a guy who can make up his own mind . '' 
Or an investor who wants his accountant 's advice may be told , `` You seem like a guy who can make up his own mind . '' 
after the broker told them he , too , had once worked with Lockheed . 
He urged them to refer their friends , who also lost money . 
when they are in the midst of a major upheaval in their lives . 
, '' says Maury Elvekrog , a licensed psychologist who is now an investment adviser and principal in Seger-Elvekrog Inc. , a Birmingham , Mich. , investment-counseling firm . 
if it hits them at the right time . '' 
They are obviously also more susceptible when they need money - retirees , for instance , trying to bolster their fixed income or parents fretting over how to pay for a child 's college expenses . 
when they need money - retirees , for instance , trying to bolster their fixed income or parents fretting over how to pay for a child 's college expenses . 
- retirees , for instance , trying to bolster their fixed income or parents fretting over how to pay for a child 's college expenses . 
, and my wife was pregnant , '' says Mr. Cortese . 
, and I figured we could use some extra cash . '' 
after hitting a four-year low earlier this month . 
, but at least it 's exercise . 
Like trying to buy life insurance , for instance , an endeavor notably lacking in dash . 
But sooner or later , most of us have to think about life insurance , just as we often have to think about having root-canal work . 
And my time has come . 
, but ours is a two-income family and accustomed to it . 
So if anything happened to me , I 'd want to leave behind enough so that my 33-year-old husband would be able to pay off the mortgage and some other debts -LRB- though not , I admit , enough to put any potential second wife in the lap of luxury -RRB- . 
. 
so that my 33-year-old husband would be able to pay off the mortgage and some other debts -LRB- though not , I admit , enough to put any potential second wife in the lap of luxury -RRB- . 
. 
while the insured is still alive . 
. 
But `` term '' means just that ; the policy is written for a specific time period only and must be renewed when it expires . 
when it expires . 
It may also stipulate that the insured must pass another medical exam before renewal ; if you flunk -- which means you need insurance more than ever -- you may not be able to buy it . 
. 
. 
because you 're that much older . 
So term insurance may not be as cheap as it looks . 
Upon examination , however , I wondered whether the plan made a lot of sense . 
if I canceled the policy after 10 years . 
. 
and thus given the company a real profit . 
That would be all right with Amex , which could then lock in its investment profit , but it does n't add up to a `` smart money '' move for me . 
, but it does n't add up to a `` smart money '' move for me . 
, since I ca n't enjoy it -- and if I live long , the insurer wins . 
, since I ca n't enjoy it -- and if I live long , the insurer wins . 
-- and if I live long , the insurer wins . 
. 
when insurers and their salesmen try to sell you permanent insurance , the kind that amasses cash value . 
, but salesmen dodge it wherever possible or cloak it in euphemisms , preferring to talk about `` savings '' and `` investment '' instead . 
, preferring to talk about `` savings '' and `` investment '' instead . 
because you have to pay for the insurance portion of the policy and the effort required to sell and service the whole package . 
while under its protection . 
And in most cases , a huge hunk of your premium in the initial year or two of the the policy is , in effect , paying the salesman 's commission as well ; investment returns on most policies are actually negative for several years , largely because of this . 
So view permanent insurance for what it is -- a compromise between pure insurance and direct investment . 
, and your cash value and dividends grow over the years . 
, '' and none of the proceeds were taxable even though they included gains on investment . 
even though they included gains on investment . 
However , Monarch Capital Corp. of Springfield , Mass. , has developed a `` combination plan '' of annuity and insurance coverage that it says does not violate the new regulations and that allows policy loans without tax consequences . 
and that allows policy loans without tax consequences . 
But the percentage of your cash reserve that you can borrow tax-free is very small . 
, so I look into the broad category called universal life . 
; and I can even skip payments if my cash reserves are enough to cover the insurance portion of the policy . 
if my cash reserves are enough to cover the insurance portion of the policy . 
and the other on the rate it is currently getting on investment , often 8.5 % or more . 
-- but can any high interest rate prevail for that long ? 
Also , some policy illustrations assume that mortality costs will decline or that I will get some sort of dividend bonus after the 10th year . These are not certain , either . 
or that I will get some sort of dividend bonus after the 10th year . 
, but they realize they 're under pressure to make their policies look good , '' says Timothy Pfiefer , an actuarial consultant at Tillinghast , a unit of Towers Perrin Co. , the big New York consulting firm . 
, and you know how nervous the market has been about those lately . 
, and it pays to ask questions about all of them . 
I call her agent , David Dominici . Yes , he says , premiums on such variable-rate coverage can be structured to `` vanish '' after a certain period -- but usually only if interest rates stay high enough to generate sufficient cash to cover the annual cost of insurance protection . At a back-yard barbecue , for example , a friend boasts that she 'll only have to pay premiums on her John Hancock policy for seven years and that her death benefits will then be `` guaranteed . '' 
and that her death benefits will then be `` guaranteed . '' 
and that her death benefits will then be `` guaranteed . '' 
-- but usually only if interest rates stay high enough to generate sufficient cash to cover the annual cost of insurance protection . 
-- but usually only if interest rates stay high enough to generate sufficient cash to cover the annual cost of insurance protection . 
. 
Some insurers have also started offering `` persistency bonuses , '' such as extra dividends or a marginally higher interest yield , if the policy is maintained for 10 years . 
, if the policy is maintained for 10 years . 
But Glenn Daily , a New York-based financial consultant , warns that many of these bonuses are `` just fantasies , '' because most are n't guaranteed by the companies . 
, '' because most are n't guaranteed by the companies . 
And the feature is so new , he adds , that no insurer has yet established a track record for actually making such payments . 
So-called living-benefits provisions also merit a close inspection . 
while I 'm still alive . 
But the catastrophic events for which the policyholder can collect are narrowly defined , vary from policy to policy , and generally permit use of only a small fraction of the face amount of insurance . 
Also , financial planners advising on insurance say that to their knowledge there has not yet been a tax ruling exempting these advance payments from taxes . 
And considering the extra cost of such provisions , some figure that people interested in , say , paying for extended nursing-home care would be better off just buying a separate policy that provides it . 
, '' even though it turns out to be low-load life . 
or otherwise do n't use commissioned salesmen ; there is still a load -- annual administrative fees and initial `` setup '' charges -- but I figure that the lack of commission and of `` surrender fees '' for dropping the policy early still saves me a lot . 
-- but I figure that the lack of commission and of `` surrender fees '' for dropping the policy early still saves me a lot . 
-- but I figure that the lack of commission and of `` surrender fees '' for dropping the policy early still saves me a lot . 
, but Id get only $ 14 from the Equitable . 
, even though the Equitable 's policy illustration assumed a fractionally higher interest rate . 
while she 's doing it . 
, though the gain is wholly due to asset sales , Robert Cawthorn , chairman , president and chief executive officer , said . 
when it is translated into dollars ; to accelerated buying of Rorer products in the second quarter because of a then-pending July 1 price increase , and to higher marketing expenses for Rorer 's Maalox antacid , whose sales and market share in the U.S. had slipped in the first half of 1989 . 
, '' he said , because the company was concentrating on research and development and promoting other drugs . 
, but this time it was different . 
as foreign buyers stepped in . 
and the Nasdaq composite index jumped 7.52 to 470.80 . 
, but cautious investors took profits before the close . 
, while many economists were looking for a 0.4 % increase . 
, while ignoring the disappointing profits of companies such as Caterpillar , analysts said . 
Hilton rose 2 7\/8 to 100 , for example . 
and Honeywell rose 2 7\/8 to 81 1\/2 . 
when an investor group disclosed yesterday that it had obtained all the financing required to complete its $ 1.6 billion leveraged buy-out of American Medical International . 
But some traders thought there was less to the rally than met the eye . 
Indeed , many traders said that uncertainty about today 's monthly expiration of stocks-index futures and options , and options on individual stocks , prompted a lot of buying by speculative traders who were unwinding positions that were bets on declining stock prices . 
and American Telephone & Telegraph advanced 7\/8 to 43 3\/8 on 2.5 million shares . 
and Warner Communications tacked on 7\/8 to 63 7\/8 . 
and MCA rose 1 1\/2 to 64 ; both media companies have long been mentioned as potential acquisition candidates . 
and Kollmorgen rose 3\/4 to 13 7\/8 . 
In addition : -- Soo Line jumped 2 3\/4 to 20 1\/4 , above the $ 19.50 a share that Canadian Pacific offered for the company in a takeover proposal . -- Xtra gained 1 1\/8 to 27 1\/8 . Investor Robert M. Gintel , who owns a 4.7 % stake in the company , said he plans a proxy fight for control of its board . -- Golden Nugget rose 2 to 28 1\/4 . Its board approved the repurchase of as many as three million common shares , or about 17 % of its shares outstanding . 
Buying interest also resurfaced in the technology sector , including International Business Machines , whose board approved a $ 1 billion increase in its stock buy-back program . 
as 2.2 million shares changed hands . 
and Motorola gained 2 3\/8 to 59 1\/4 . 
On the other hand , Symbol Technologies dropped 1 1\/4 to 18 1\/2 after Shearson Lehman Hutton lowered its short-term investment rating on the stock and its 1989 earnings estimate , and Commodore International fell 7\/8 to 8 after the company said it expects to post a loss for the September quarter . 
after Shearson Lehman Hutton lowered its short-term investment rating on the stock and its 1989 earnings estimate , and Commodore International fell 7\/8 to 8 after the company said it expects to post a loss for the September quarter . 
, and Commodore International fell 7\/8 to 8 after the company said it expects to post a loss for the September quarter . 
after the company said it expects to post a loss for the September quarter . 
and Chubb rose 1 1\/4 to 82 1\/4 . 
and Lewis Galoob Toys rose 7\/8 to 13 5\/8 on the Big Board , while Hasbro gained 1 to 21 7\/8 on the American Stock Exchange . 
, while Hasbro gained 1 to 21 7\/8 on the American Stock Exchange . 
and Class B rose 2 5\/8 to 37 1\/4 . 
before voting on the constitutional change . 
, because he said only a constitutional amendment can protect the flag adequately . 
. 
, and you are n't alone . 
because problems related to stress `` are much more prevalent than they seem , '' said Leon J. Warshaw , executive director of the business group . 
so they can do something about them , Dr. Warshaw said . 
when these problems go untreated for too long . 
But although 56 % of the respondents in the study indicated that mental-health problems were fairly pervasive in the workplace , there is still a social stigma associated with people seeking help . 
. 
'' and 55 % of those in companies with fewer than 4,000 employees agreeing . 
The poll also noted fear of a takeover as a stress-producing event in larger companies . 
The study , which received funding from Upjohn Co. , which makes several drugs to treat stress-related illnesses , also found 47 % of the managers said stress , anxiety and depression contribute to decreased production . 
. '' 
He also noted that various work environments , such as night work , have their own `` stressors . '' 
, but there 's a limit , '' says Paul D'Arcy , of Rohrer , Hibler & Replogle , a corporate psychology and management consulting firm . 
But his circumstances are among the few that can qualify for the handful of really cheap airline tickets remaining in America . 
But there still are a few ways today 's traveler can qualify under the airline 's many restrictions . 
One of the best deals , though , may mean skipping Christmas dinner with the relatives . 
So this year , the airlines are getting a jump on holiday discounts . 
. 
, and they must have the same last name as the buyer of the ticket or legal proof they 're related . 
But gay rights advocates are angry , too . 
. 
It also lowered some air fares . 
, but reservation agents can waive advance-purchase restrictions on discount fares for emergency trips . -RRB- 
, but we still have the indoor pool and Jacuzzi . '' 
Until You 're a Bit Older 
And centenarians fly free in first class . 
THE NATION'S carriers also provide discounts to Red Cross workers , retired military personnel and medical students . 
, and that it expects peak output from the field of 15,000 barrels a day to be reached in 1990 . 
But the compounded effects of `` seniors only '' taxes result in truly catastrophic marginal tax rates . 
before she had to pay the catastrophic surtax . 
. 
. 
if an earnings test amendment is not allowed from the floor . 
. 
He also says he is losing money now . 
But just down Seventh Avenue , where about 75 % of U.S. fur garments are made , Larry Rosen has acquired two retail outlets , broadened his fur-making line and expanded into leather . He credits imports . 
, while the other embraced the change . 
, and the Americans are being kicked around . '' 
Mr. Rosen , though , believes imports have reinvigorated the industry in which he has worked for most of his 57 years . 
since furriers started aggressively marketing `` working-girl mink '' and similar lower-priced imported furs in recent years . 
It also opened the door to furs made in South Korea , China , Hong Kong and other countries . 
But low-priced and middle-priced furriers like Mr. Purnick , who once saturated the five-block Seventh Avenue fur district , say imports have cut their sales . 
Yet Mr. Rosen has turned the import phenomenon to his advantage . 
He also noticed that foreign makers were introducing many variations on the traditional fur , and he decided to follow suit . 
, and he decided to follow suit . 
But six years ago he also began importing from the Far East . 
But six years ago he also began importing from the Far East . 
Next he will be testing pictured embroidery -LRB- called kalega -RRB- made in the Far East . 
, he adds . 
, leathers also attract retailers who may buy furs later , he adds . 
who may buy furs later , he adds . 
Other furriers have also benefited from leathers . 
Mr. Rosen is also pushing retail sales . 
Other furriers have also placed more weight on retailing . 
, and now retail sales account for about 20 % of gross income . 
, but since 1986 sales have languished at their $ 1.8 billion peak . 
In addition , competition has glutted the market with both skins and coats , driving prices down . 
And those who did n't move some production overseas suffer labor shortages . 
But even those who have found a way to cope with the imports and the slump , fear that furs are losing part of their allure . 
But Mr. Rosen responds : `` Whatever people want to buy , I 'll sell . The name of the game is to move goods . 
, and city health officials are investigating whether a cafeteria worker may have exposed hundreds of other GTE employees to the viral infection , company and city officials said . 
after testing determined that at least one cafeteria worker employed by GTE 's private food vending contractor , ARA Services Inc. , was suffering from a strain of the virus , officials said . 
because hepatitis A is rarely life-threatening , '' said Dr. Frank Provato , GTE 's medical director . 
`` It 's a double-edged sword though , because it is also the most contagious kind of hepatitis . '' 
, because it is also the most contagious kind of hepatitis . '' 
`` It 's a double-edged sword though , because it is also the most contagious kind of hepatitis . '' 
, '' Mr. Mattausch added , `` and that means virtually everyone who works here . 
. '' 
Mr. Lawson also made it clear that he would be watching exchange rates carefully . 
Mr. Lawson also dismissed the possibility of imposing direct credit controls on Britain 's financial system . 
. 
Meanwhile , average earnings in Britain were up 8.75 % in August over the previous year . 
'' when the British economy was heating up last year . 
'' after the `` nasty jolt '' of the 190.58-point plunge in the Dow Jones Industrial Average a week ago . 
. '' 
Specifically , he pointed out that compared with the U.S. market , the U.K. has far fewer highly leveraged junk-bond financings . 
, but he did n't indicate when . 
, but it wo n't start shipping the computers until early next year . 
, and that it should be available in Europe by December . 
before Americans do , '' the spokesman said . 
, and it is important that Olivetti be one of the first out on the market with this product , '' said Patricia Meagher Davis , an analyst at James Capel & Co. in London . 
, especially if it can fulfill its promise to deliver the new machines by December . 
, especially if it can fulfill its promise to deliver the new machines by December . 
, while Intel 's previous 386 chip could handle only 3 to 6 MIPS . 
Olivetti also plans to sell the CP486 computer in the U.S. starting next year through Olivetti USA and through its ISC\/Bunker Ramo unit , which specializes in automating bank-branch networks . 
Supplemental Security Income payments to the disabled also will rise 4.7 % , starting with checks received on Dec. 29 , 1988 , increasing the maximum SSI payment to $ 386 from $ 368 a month . 
The inflation adjustment also means that the maximum annual level of earnings subject to the wage tax that generates revenue for the Social Security trust fund will rise to $ 50,400 in 1990 from $ 48,000 this year . 
Suppliers were also hurt by the stronger U.S. dollar , which makes sales abroad more difficult . 
Becton , Dickinson & Co. , for example , faces stiff competition from a Japanese supplier in the important syringe market . 
But not every company expects to report increased earnings . 
because the company removed a catheter from the market . 
Takeover speculation , which has been buoying stocks of supply houses , may also ease , says Peter Sidoti , an analyst with Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc . 
, '' he says . 
Hospitals companies , meanwhile , are reporting improved earnings . 
Humana Inc. , Louisville , Ky. , also reported favorable results , with net income of $ 66.7 million , or 66 cents , in the fourth quarter ended Aug. 31 , up from $ 58.2 million , or 59 cents , a year earlier . 
Moreover , companies have sold off many of their smaller , less-profitable hospitals and have completed painful restructurings . 
Humana 's revenues , for example , are being boosted by large increases in enrollments in the company 's health maintenance organizations . 
, when the insured unemployment rate also was 2.2 % . 
The figure also may reflect initial claims filed by striking Nynex Corp. workers who have become eligible for unemployment benefits , the official said . 
. 
A spokesman also said margins for the company 's service business narrowed somewhat because of heavy investments made in that sector . 
, and that 's hurt us , '' said Mark Steinkrauss , Digital 's director of investor relations . 
, and that 's hurt us , '' said Mark Steinkrauss , Digital 's director of investor relations . 
He said unfavorable currency translations were also a factor in the quarter . 
But analysts said that against the backdrop of a nearly 40-point rise in the Dow Jones Industrial Average , that should n't necessarily be taken as a sign of great strength . 
, and when the new mainframe does ship , I 'm not sure it will be a big winner . 
. 
, '' although he has n't settled on a final number . 
. 
Results were also bolstered by `` a very meaningful increase in operating profit at Colgate 's U.S. business , '' he said . 
and a lot more will be done , '' Mr. Mark said . 
Separately , Colgate Wednesday finalized an agreement with MacroChem Corp. , a tiny dental products and pharmaceutical concern based in Billerica , Mass. , to market in the U.S. four of MacroChem 's FDA-approved dental products . 
AT&T also said net income rose 19 % in the third quarter . 
But the growth was partly offset by lower equipment sales and rentals and price cuts on some products . 
But other analysts expressed disappointment that the cost-cutting move wo n't result in even greater earnings growth . 
, but it only gets you to where people 's expectations already are , '' in terms of earnings growth , said Joel D. Gross , an analyst with Donaldson , Lufkin & Jenrette . 
But the company said the amount ca n't be determined until it knows how many managers opt to retire . 
until it knows how many managers opt to retire . 
. 
But wait a second . Westridge Capital is an index fund -- the type of stolid long-term investor whose goal is to be nothing more than average . 
and then holding stocks in the correct mix to mirror a stock market barometer , such as Standard & Poor 's 500-stock index , and match its performance . 
because relatively few `` active '' stock pickers have been able to consistently match the returns of the S&P 500 or other bellwethers , much less beat it . 
And the fees investors pay for indexing run a few pennies for each $ 100 of assets -- a fraction of the cost of active managers . 
because computers do most of the work , and low trading activity keeps a lid on commission costs . 
, and low trading activity keeps a lid on commission costs . 
But today , indexing is moving from a passive investment strategy to an increasingly active one . 
. 
, but the index money has been just sort of sitting there , '' says Seth M. Lynn , president of Axe Core Investors Inc. , an indexer based in Tarrytown , N.Y . 
Futures and options also make it possible to build `` synthetic '' index funds that do n't actually own a single share of stock , but can produce returns that match or exceed the broad stock market . 
. -RRB- 
when you open an account , '' says Axe Core 's Mr. Lynn . 
As a result , indexers have been looking for ways to give investors something more than the average for their money . 
And many have been successful , as in the case of the index fund operated by hyper-trader Westridge Capital . 
when they are selling at a discount to the actual stocks , and will switch back and forth between stocks and stock-index futures to take advantages of any momentary price discrepencies . 
Mr. Carder also goes through periods when he buys stocks in conjunction with options to boost returns and protect against declines . 
And in some months , he buys stock-index futures and not stocks at all . 
Big indexer Bankers Trust Co. also uses futures in a strategy that on average has added one percentage point to its enhanced fund 's returns . 
, and you always want to hold the cheapest form of it , '' he says . 
But some indexers make little or no use of futures , saying that these instruments present added risks for investors . 
, then those products could have a problem , '' says John Zumbrunn , managing director of Prudential Insurance Co. of America 's Investment Index Technologies Inc. unit . 
while still passing along most gains . 
, even if the market goes much lower . 
, but also can hurt when a company like Chrysler Corp. rebounds . 
when a company like Chrysler Corp. rebounds . 
Pennsylvania State Employees Retirement System , for example , has about $ 130 million invested in a fund of 244 companies that are either Pennsylvania-based or have 25 % of their work forces in the state . 
, while the American Stock Exchange reported its third consecutive record month of short interest . 
, while the Amex reported 36,015,194 shares , a 48 % leap . 
and that they can buy the shares back later at a lower price for return to the lender . 
, betting that the stock 's price will decline and that they can buy the shares back later at a lower price for return to the lender . 
because the borrowed shares eventually must be bought back . 
because the borrowed shares eventually must be bought back . 
Fluctuation in short interest of certain stocks also may be caused partly by arbitraging . 
Some analysts suggest , however , that the ratio has weakened in value as an indicator because options and other products can be used to hedge short positions . 
because options and other products can be used to hedge short positions . 
Also closely watched is Exxon Corp. , where short interest slid to 4,469,167 shares from 5,088,774 . 
You are absolutely wrong , however , in opining that this position is some kind of `` flip-flop , '' something newly arrived at as a result of reading the opinion polls . 
. 
Those hearings also highlighted how Gen. Noriega was able to use his relationships with these agencies to delay U.S. action against him , and to exploit the administration 's obsession with overthrowing the Sandinistas to protect his own drug-dealing . 
until Nicaragua was settled . '' 
because the first priority was the Contra war . 
, but ringing declarations have yet to be translated into much action . 
Later , he marketed glue . 
. 
when Vietnam 's economic reforms gathered pace , and for awhile they did . 
, and for awhile they did . 
, and he was hailed as `` the tire king . '' 
and I won , '' he says . 
. '' 
But a few days later the police accused him of stealing electricity , acquiring rubber without permission and buying stolen property . 
before the house and contents were confiscated . 
. 
The primitive operations also burst out the back door into a small courtyard , where an ancient press squeezes rubber solution into a flat strip and newly made tires are cooled in a bathtub filled with water . 
and newly made tires are cooled in a bathtub filled with water . 
First , however , he has unfinished business . 
. 
Nor did they return his house and contents , which he values at about $ 44,000 . 
He wants to recover more than just his property , though . 
when the Vietnamese Writers Association was looking for a new editor to reform its weekly newspaper , Van Nghe . 
because he questioned the intrusion of politics into literature . 
as the weekly went way beyond standard literary themes to cover Vietnamese society and its ills . 
The newspaper also ran a series of controversial short stories by Nguyen Huy Thiep , a former history teacher , who stirred debate over his interpretation of Vietnamese culture and took a thinly veiled swipe at writers who had blocked his entry into their official association . 
. 
She has indeed turned Hochiminh City Food into a budding conglomerate , but the company itself remains state-owned . 
, but the company itself remains state-owned . 
, and `` there are potential isolated problems , '' said Hyman Grossman , a managing director . 
, '' but it `` raises concerns about potentially substantial risks '' longer-term . 
Nonetheless , Chairman Roger W. Johnson said he expects the company to be profitable in the current quarter . 
. 
Mr. Johnson said the first-quarter loss also heavily reflected a rapid change in graphics technology that left reseller channels with too many of the old computer graphics boards and too few new monitors compatible with the new graphics boards . 
Other makers of video controller equipment also were caught in the EGA-VGA shift , he said , `` but we were able to respond much more quickly . '' 
, he said , `` but we were able to respond much more quickly . '' 
Still , Mr. Johnson said , `` our stock is grossly undervalued . '' 
, while maintaining research and development at about 8 % to 9 % of sales . 
because , increasingly , multiple functions are being governed by a single chip . 
. 
, and Mr. Johnson expects that proportion to continue . 
, he said , particularly since Western Digital already manufactures there . 
But under the bank 's proposed statutes , an assembly of shareholders must approve board members . 
In a related move , the bank also proposed that board representation be linked more closely to the bank 's new shareholding structure . 
, and mutual fund sales rose 45 % in the quarter to $ 923 million . 
. 
But the plan only threatens to heighten the tension and confusion already surrounding the cases that were filed in September 1988 . 
, although the actual amount would probably be much less . 
. 
, although his attorney says he wo n't do it if the proposal jeopardizes a tentative settlement he has reached with the Internal Revenue Service , which claims the brothers owe $ 1 billion in back taxes and is by far the biggest creditor in both cases . 
if the proposal jeopardizes a tentative settlement he has reached with the Internal Revenue Service , which claims the brothers owe $ 1 billion in back taxes and is by far the biggest creditor in both cases . 
although he and the IRS are at odds over the size of the non-dischargable debt he would have to pay to the government from future earnings . 
if the Manufacturers Hanover Corp. unit attempts to force such a plan through the court . 
if its settlement plan in the W. Herbert Hunt case is approved by Judge Abramson , who will consider the proposal at a hearing next week . 
but Hugh Ray , attorney for Manufacturers Hanover , called it `` silly '' and said he would fight it in court . 
after Banc One has an opportunity to study the quality of the assets , Banc One said . 
`` Insitutional investors , on the other hand , reacted to the steep decline in yields on direct money-market instruments following the stock-market decline last Friday , '' Mr. Dreyer said . 
Likewise , certificates of deposit on average posted lower yields in the week ended Tuesday . 
, while 96 broker-dealer funds increased $ 1.3 billion to $ 154.05 billion . 
after Bank Bumiputra 's shareholders approved a rescue plan , Tan Sri Basir said heavy lending to the property sector rocked the bank when property prices in Malaysia plummeted in 1984-85 . 
when property prices in Malaysia plummeted in 1984-85 . 
So the bank 's board decided to make 1.23 billion Malaysian dollars -LRB- US$ 457 million -RRB- in provisions for interest payments from loans previously recorded as revenue but never actually received by the bank , and to submit a bailout package to replenish the bank 's paid-up capital . 
. 
and the bank will be on track to report a pretax profit of between M$ 160 million and M$ 170 million for the fiscal year ending March 31 . 
if it had n't made provisions for the nonperforming loans , he said . 
But public documents indicate 10 % or more of the bank 's provisions were made for foregone interest on a M$ 200 million loan to Malaysia 's dominant political party , the United Malays National Organization , to build its convention and headquarters complex in Kuala Lumpur . 
after virtually being wiped out by the new provisions . 
. 
, but after a decade of increased Republican influence here , the new politics of abortion have contributed to a world turned upside down for Mr. Courter . 
. 
, but the U.S. Supreme Court ruling , Webster vs. Missouri , has engaged voters across the nation who had been insulated from the issue . 
, and in a major reversal , Congress is defying a presidential veto and demanding that Medicaid abortions be permitted in cases of rape and incest . 
, '' Linda Bowker tells a reporter in the Trenton office of the National Organization for Women . 
... and no one would have heard us . '' 
, but New Jersey is a model of how so personal an issue can become a baseline of sorts in judging a candidate . 
, and polls indicate his lead widens when the candidates are specifically linked to the issue . 
when the candidates are specifically linked to the issue . 
, but at a pause in Newark 's Columbus Day parade recently , he was dancing with his wife in the middle of the avenue in the city 's old Italian-American ward . 
. 
? '' 
Mr. Courter , by comparison , seems a shadow of the confident hawk who defended Oliver North before national cameras at Iran-Contra hearings two years ago . 
Moreover , by stepping outside the state 's pro-choice tradition , Mr. Courter aggravates fears that he is too conservative as well on more pressing concerns such as auto insurance rates and the environment . 
; and by wavering on this issue and abortion , he has weakened his credibility in what is already a mean-spirited campaign on both sides . 
yet embraced a hawkish defense and foreign policy -- even voting against a 1984 resolution critical of the U.S. mining of Nicaraguan harbors . 
, and Mr. Courter 's own conservative credentials proved useful to the current New Jersey GOP governor , Thomas Kean , in the 1981 Republican primary here . 
, but the abortion issue is only a reminder of the gap between his record and that of the more moderate , pro-choice Gov. Kean . 
. 
, but this history makes it harder for the conservative to run against government . 
Yet minutes after promising to appoint Hispanics to high posts in state government , he is unable to say whether he has ever employed any in his congressional office . 
. 
. 
, even though he declined a rematch with Gov. Kean in 1985 . 
, but at age 52 , the congressman is also a product of his times and losses . 
, but at age 52 , the congressman is also a product of his times and losses . 
as if reading from Exodus 21 ; to increase state revenue he focuses not on `` taxes '' but on `` audits '' to cut waste . 
, and Mr. Florio retools himself as the lean , mean Democratic fighting machine of the 1990s . 
and instead quotes the Grateful Dead . 
, but his ties to Camden remain a sore point because of the county 's past corruption . 
, and faced with criticism of a sweetheart bank investment , he has so far blunted the issue by donating the bulk of his profits to his alma mater , Trenton State College . 
`` I still think the woman has the right to do with her body as she pleases , '' he says . 
. 
since before the stock market plunged more than 190 points last Friday . 
Bond prices also jumped as traders appeared to read the data as a sign that interest rates may fall . 
as traders appeared to read the data as a sign that interest rates may fall . 
But many economists were not nearly as jubilant . 
They also said the dollar is leveling off after a rise this summer that helped to reduce the prices of imported goods . 
, and at the wholesale level those are fully behind us now , '' said Jay Woodworth , chief domestic economist at Bankers Trust Co. in New York . 
. 
As a result , many economists were expecting the consumer price index to increase significantly more than it did . 
But retail energy prices declined 0.9 % in September . 
. 
Still , some analysts insisted that the worst of the inflation is behind . 
, but the subsequent decline in energy prices has pulled the annual rate back down to 4.4 % . 
, so businesses felt they could raise prices . '' 
In the past several days , however , the U.S. 's central bank has allowed a key interest rate to fall slightly to try to stabilize the markets . 
because they were still uncertain about the level of inflation in the economy . 
-- consumer prices still rose only 0.2 % in September . 
, and housing costs gained only 0.1 % . 
, but that was after three months of declines . 
as dealers continued to offer rebates to attract customers . 
Separately , the Labor Department reported that average weekly earnings rose 0.3 % in September , after adjusting for inflation , following a 0.7 % decline in August . 
, after adjusting for inflation , following a 0.7 % decline in August . 
. 
so visitors have more to do than ski . 
And this week , the industry 's efforts will go national for the first time when it unveils a $ 7 million advertising campaign . 
when it unveils a $ 7 million advertising campaign . 
But another big problem has been the aging of baby boomers . 
and many baby boomers have outgrown skiing or have too many family responsibilities to stick with the sport . 
as he plows down a bunny slope . 
But the new commercials deal with it indirectly by showing a woman smiling as she tries to get up from a fall . 
as she tries to get up from a fall . 
if you fall , '' says Ms. Dillmann . 
. '' 
But in these crunch times for the ski industry , some resorts , such as the Angel Fire , Red River and Taos ski areas in New Mexico , have even started shuttle-busing skiers to each other 's slopes and next year plan to sell tickets good for all local lifts . 
Many resorts also are focusing more on the service side of their business . 
. 
while one spouse stayed with the children . 
And resorts are adding other amenities , such as pricey restaurants , health spas and vacation packages with a twist . 
During Winter Carnival week , for example , visitors at Sunday River in Maine can take a hot-air balloon ride . 
besides ski and sit in the bar , '' says Don Borgeson , executive director of Angel Fire , N.M. 's Chamber of Commerce . 
But some think that 's being overly optimistic . 
because skiing is still expensive : a lift ticket can cost up to $ 35 a day and equipment prices are rising . 
and equipment prices are rising . 
And most vacationers still prefer a warm climate for their winter excursions . 
, '' says I. William Berry , editor and publisher of the Ski Industry Letter in Katonah , N.Y . 
and then these -LCB- new skiers -RCB- wo n't come back . 
and then these -LCB- new skiers -RCB- wo n't come back . 
, and they did n't play it on Wednesday or Thursday either . 
But you knew that , did n't you ? 
, and that people will be able to get there . 
But , at least , the law of averages should have swung to the favorable side . 
, but the name of this column is `` On Sports , '' so I feel obliged to do so . 
, '' so I feel obliged to do so . 
, as though it had been a novel kind of pre-game show . 
, as though it had been a novel kind of pre-game show . 
. '' 
Mich. , so I was unprepared for one reaction to such things : the urge to talk about them . 
and a train went by , '' said one man , describing my own reaction . 
and that ball would be played . 
, but I stayed put for 10 or 15 minutes , '' confessed a friend . 
and I 'm not gon na wimp out ! ' '' 
Here in the Global Village , though , folks do not stay uninformed for long . 
, but battery-operated radios and television sets were plentiful . 
, but it later was revealed that there also had been damage of the sort reported by my friend . 
, but it later was revealed that there also had been damage of the sort reported by my friend . 
, but it later was revealed that there also had been damage of the sort reported by my friend . 
while , a few feet away , others watched the interviews on their portable TVs . 
and there had been water damage , but little else . 
, '' but he already was snoring . 
, and the quake merely highlighted that fact . 
, and now the Bay Bridge lies in ruins . 
Still , its edge is lost . 
And I will never again complain about a rainout . 
But two big New York banks seem to have kicked those chances away , for the moment , with the embarrassing failure of Citicorp and Chase Manhattan Corp. to deliver $ 7.2 billion in bank financing for a leveraged buy-out of United Airlines parent UAL Corp . 
But the UAL collapse , he says , `` may tell you it 's not going to work that easily . '' 
But Mr. Batchelder says that Citicorp 's `` failure to deliver '' on its promise to raise the UAL bank debt for a labor-management buy-out group `` is very distressing to potential users of a ` highly-confident ' letter from commercial banks . '' 
; Citicorp later agreed to work with a competing UAL buy-out group . 
But he warns that banks will have `` to have enough discipline '' not to make loans that are too risky . 
In fact , Manufacturers Hanover said in its third-quarter earnings report that fees from syndicating loans to other banks dropped 48 % , to $ 21 million . 
because their credit quality was poor , '' says a bank spokesman . 
But some observers believe Paramount Chairman Martin Davis wanted to avoid the possible taint of being perceived as a corporate raider in his controversial bid for Time . 
so that he could raise Paramount 's bid to $ 200 a share . 
The success of the NWA financing , and the failure of the UAL deal , also seem to highlight the important new role in takeover financing being played by Japanese banks . 
But it was broad-scale rejection by Japanese banks that helped seal the fate of the attempt to buy UAL . 
, and there 's a fear of a coming recession and the possible bankruptcy of LBO companies . 
and that when the required Hart-Scott-Rodino filing eventually was made , it did n't disclose the group 's alleged earlier violation of the so-called prior-notice requirements of the law . 
. 
But when Harley last week publicly questioned the legality of the group 's filing procedures , the Rochester , N.Y. , investor said `` we complied with every law , '' and he denied any wrongdoing . 
. 
, '' and he denied any wrongdoing . 
The earnings also mark a significant drop from the second quarter 's $ 45.3 million or $ 1.25 a share . 
Moreover , the earnings were well below analysts ' expectations of about $ 1.16 a share . 
However , the company also lost orders because of prolonged labor talks in the second quarter . 
However , the company also lost orders because of prolonged labor talks in the second quarter . 
The company said its integrated steel sector was also hurt by higher raw material , repair and maintenance , and labor costs . 
Meanwhile , the company 's service center segment , which saw operating profit drop to $ 11.5 million from $ 30.7 million a year ago , experienced much of the same demand and cost problems , as well as start-up costs associated with a coil processing facility in Chicago and an upgraded computer information system . 
However , he noted that steel mill bookings are up from early summer levels , and that he expects the company to improve its cost performance in the fourth quarter . 
, and that he expects the company to improve its cost performance in the fourth quarter . 
. 
However , when powerful forces start shaking the market 's structure , the more `` earthquake-resistant '' it is , the better its chance for survival . 
. 
because investors are the only source of market liquidity . 
And liquidity is what markets need to damp quakes and aftershocks . 
. 
And when any component of the market -- cash , futures or options -- loses liquidity , the price discovery system -LRB- the way prices are determined -RRB- becomes flawed or is lost entirely for a time . 
. 
. 
And in financial markets , irrational behavior is sometimes translated into catastrophe . 
. 
when they are most needed , because of their ignorance of important market information . 
As a result , while any one customer may purchase immediacy by selling to a market maker -LRB- which is micro-liquidity for the investor -RRB- , the market as a whole remains in the same circumstances it was before the transaction : The unwanted position is still an unwanted position ; only the identity of the seller has changed . 
: The unwanted position is still an unwanted position ; only the identity of the seller has changed . 
In fact it can be argued that increasing capital commitments by market makers -LRB- a result of some post-1987 crash studies -RRB- also increases market volatility , since the more securities are held by market makers at any given time , the more selling pressure is overhanging the market . 
also increases market volatility , since the more securities are held by market makers at any given time , the more selling pressure is overhanging the market . 
, since the more securities are held by market makers at any given time , the more selling pressure is overhanging the market . 
But I am sure we need to maximize our `` earthquake '' protection by making certain that our market structures let investors add their mighty shock-damping power to our nation 's markets . 
. 
, as losing money becomes easier and making money becomes tougher . 
and making money becomes tougher . 
until a recession is clearly at hand . 
But that may not be possible , because recessions often take investors by surprise . 
, because recessions often take investors by surprise . 
, '' says David A. Wyss , chief financial economist at the Data Resources division of McGraw-Hill Inc . 
. '' 
because they pay higher interest than newly issued bonds do . 
But short-term bonds ca n't rise too much , because everyone knows they will be redeemed at a preset price fairly soon . 
, because everyone knows they will be redeemed at a preset price fairly soon . 
But not just any bonds will do . 
. 
Also , he notes , `` most corporate bonds are callable . '' 
. 
; they then save on interest costs . 
; they then save on interest costs . 
But the investors are left stranded with money to reinvest at a time when interest rates are puny . 
. 
when a recession is in the offing , says Avner Arbel , professor of finance at Cornell University . 
, and this could be a disaster . '' 
And , like corporates , many municipal bonds are callable . 
But a few experts , going against the consensus , do n't think bonds would help investors even if a recession is in the offing . 
even if a recession is in the offing . 
. '' 
and also shunning bonds . 
. 
Instead , Mr. Beach says , investors `` probably should be carrying a very high level of cash , '' by which he means such so-called cash equivalents as money-market funds and Treasury bills . 
Greg Confair , president of Sigma Financial Inc. in Allentown , Pa. , also recommends that investors go heavily for cash . 
And , in a sense , that 's the kind of task individuals face in deciding what to do about stocks -- the mainstay of most serious investors ' portfolios . 
Moreover , because no one knows for sure just when a recession is coming , some analysts think investors should n't even worry too much about timing . 
. 
And the in-and-outer might miss the sudden spurts that account for much of the stock market 's gains over time . 
Still , few investors are able to sit tight when they are convinced a recession is coming . 
when they are convinced a recession is coming . 
, and the decrease began an average of six months before a recession officially started . 
an average of six months before a recession officially started . 
- and , in the typical case , the recession is already half over . 
, as investors anticipate a recovery . 
, as investors anticipate a recovery . 
Unfortunately , though , recessions vary enough in length so that the average ca n't reliably be used to guide investors in timing stock sales or purchases . 
so that the average ca n't reliably be used to guide investors in timing stock sales or purchases . 
But whatever their advice about timing , none of these experts recommend jettisoning stocks entirely during a recession . 
, but overall they provide superior performance . 
In good times , he says , they lag a bit , but overall they provide superior performance . 
And in any case , he argues , stocks of small companies are `` almost as overpriced as they were Sept. 30 , 1987 , just before the crash . '' 
For example , Mr. Arbel says , stocks of small companies are selling for about 19 times cash flow . 
And it 's way above the ratio -LRB- 7.5 times cash flow -RRB- that bigger companies are selling for . 
when they 're sick . 
. '' 
just when things seem the blackest . '' 
as investors went on a bargain hunt . 
But while the overall market improved , the new-issue junk-bond market continued to count casualties , even as junk-bond prices rose . 
, even as junk-bond prices rose . 
, even as junk-bond prices rose . 
And Donaldson , Lufkin & Jenrette Securities Corp. scrambled to restructure and improve the potential returns on a $ 475 million debenture offering by Chicago & North Western Acquisition Corp. that was still being negotiated late last night . 
while it restructures the transaction . 
, and -LCB- Chicago & North Western -RCB- is no exception , '' said Mariel Clemensen , vice president , high-yield research , at Citicorp . 
in part because `` several large insurance buyers right now are demanding equity as part of the package . 
. '' 
But several mutual-fund managers , nervous about the deteriorating quality of their junk-bond portfolios and shy about buying new issues , said they 're staying away from any junk security that is n't considered first rate for its class . 
. 
while the economy slows . 
But there were also rumors yesterday that several Japanese institutional investors were shifting their portfolios and buying long-term bonds while selling shorter-term Treasurys . 
But there were also rumors yesterday that several Japanese institutional investors were shifting their portfolios and buying long-term bonds while selling shorter-term Treasurys . 
while selling shorter-term Treasurys . 
while three-year notes were slightly higher . 
, while the rate on six-month bills rose to 7.57 % from 7.53 % . 
Meanwhile , the Treasury sold $ 9.75 billion of 52-week bills yesterday . 
Thus , higher bidding narrows the investor 's return while lower bidding widens it . 
while lower bidding widens it . 
, while the coupon-equivalent yield is based on a 365-day year . 
, after trading around par earlier this week , and RJR 's 13 1\/2 % subordinated debentures of 2001 were at 101 5\/8 after trading at below par earlier this week . 
, and RJR 's 13 1\/2 % subordinated debentures of 2001 were at 101 5\/8 after trading at below par earlier this week . 
after trading at below par earlier this week . 
, as a series of sell lists hit the Street and capped upward price movement in the sector . 
, but the volume of paper left high grades in the 10-year and under maturity range unchanged to 0.05 percentage point higher in yield . 
, although traders said market participants remained cautious . 
It 's also unclear precisely how the state will rebuild its reserve , said Cindy Katz , assistant director of California 's department of finance , although she noted that a bond offering for that purpose is n't anticipated . 
, said Cindy Katz , assistant director of California 's department of finance , although she noted that a bond offering for that purpose is n't anticipated . 
Meanwhile , new issuance was slow . 
, hurting any investor paying much above par for them . 
because it will become more difficult to structure new derivative securities offerings . 
, and Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. 9 % securities were at 97 10\/32 , up 6\/32 . 
, as the spread above the Treasury 10-year note widened 0.03 percentage point to 1.48 . 
. 
when the yield curve was more favorable . 
as investors awaited an economic policy address last night by Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson . 
, while the 11 3\/4 % notes due 1991 were unchanged at 98 19\/32 to yield 12.94 % . 
, and in West Germany , the 7 % benchmark issue due October 1999 ended 0.05 point lower at 99.85 to yield 7.02 % . 
Specifically , the British carrier said it currently has no plans to participate in any new offer for UAL . 
In addition , British Air officially withdrew its support for the previous $ 300-a-share bid in a terse statement that said `` the original deal is closed . '' 
Company officials said later that British Airways believes its involvement in the UAL buy-out ended last Friday when the buy-out group , which also includes UAL 's management and pilot union , failed to obtain financing for the $ 6.79 billion transaction . 
ended last Friday when the buy-out group , which also includes UAL 's management and pilot union , failed to obtain financing for the $ 6.79 billion transaction . 
However , company officials said they plan to take `` no initiatives '' to resurrect the transaction , and `` are n't aware '' of any restructured bid in the making . 
. 
However , in response to the British Air decision , United 's pilot union vowed to continue efforts to revive the buy-out . 
But there was one bright spot yesterday . 
Still , without the assurance of British Airways ' financial backing , it will be tougher for the buy-out group to convince already-reluctant banks to make loan commitments for a revised bid , especially since British Air 's original investment represented 78 % of the cash equity contribution for the bid . 
, especially since British Air 's original investment represented 78 % of the cash equity contribution for the bid . 
Indeed , British Air seemed to be distancing itself from the troubled transaction early in an effort to avoid any further embarrassment . 
after the British succeeded in arranging the financing for its equity contribution . 
The carrier also seemed eager to place blame on its American counterparts . 
because our American partners were not capable of organizing the financing , '' a British Air spokesman said . 
after the Transportation Department forced Northwest 's Airlines ' new owners to restructure the equity contribution of KLM Royal Dutch Airlines in that carrier . 
They also unanimously re-elected Mr. Dubinsky , the union chairman who has led the pilots ' 2 1\/2-year fight to take control of the airline . 
since they want to have firm bank commitments before launching a new bid . 
before launching a new bid . 
after Citicorp and Chase Manhattan Corp. , the lead banks in the transaction , failed to obtain $ 7.2 billion in financing needed for the plan . 
, while foreign sales jumped 17.3 % , Istat said . 
, while sales of intermediate goods were up 13.8 % from a year ago . 
, and there was talk that it would be unveiled as early as yesterday . 
But Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell -LRB- D. , Maine -RRB- , a vigorous opponent of the capital-gains tax cut , called the group to meet with him Wednesday night and again yesterday . 
Afterward , leaders of the dissident Democrats relented , and said they would n't offer their own proposal as they had planned . 
Still , Sen. Bob Packwood -LRB- R. , Ore. -RRB- , the lead sponsor of the Republican capital-gains amendment , predicted that the tax cut would be enacted this year . 
and that ultimately there would be enough senators to overcome any procedural hurdle the Democratic leadership might erect . 
and that ultimately there would be enough senators to overcome any procedural hurdle the Democratic leadership might erect . 
But Sen. Mitchell , buoyed by his victory among fellow Democrats , strongly disagreed . 
, and at least some of the dissident Democrats plan to support it . 
when the bill comes to the floor , '' said Sen. David Boren -LRB- D. , Okla. -RRB- , a leader of those Democrats . 
, until it reached a maximum of 35 % after seven years . 
As an alternative , taxpayers could chose to reduce their gains by an inflation index . 
The Packwood plan also would include a proposal , designed by Sen. William Roth -LRB- R. , Del. -RRB- , that would create new tax benefits for individual retirement accounts . 
In addition , long-term debt has been trimmed to about $ 72 million from $ 96 million since Jan. 1 . 
For example , the chief executive himself now pays 20 % of the cost of his health benefits ; the company used to pay 100 % . 
and we are on course , '' Mr. Hutchinson said of the restructuring program . 
But he cautioned that Westmoreland 's third quarter is typically better than the fourth , so investors `` should n't just multiply the third quarter by four '' and assume the same rate of improvement can be sustained . 
, so investors `` should n't just multiply the third quarter by four '' and assume the same rate of improvement can be sustained . 
Nevertheless , Mr. Hutchinson predicted that 1989 would be `` solidly profitable '' for Westmoreland and that 1990 would bring `` more of the same . '' 
and that 1990 would bring `` more of the same . '' 
, we think . 
. 
and the rest was for the building itself . 
after the bank 's new back office center is completed in 1993 . 
, shortly after the October 1987 stock market crash . 
after bids fell short of expectations . 
, and Salomon Brothers Inc. , whose headquarters is in the building , also plans to move shortly . 
, and Salomon Brothers Inc. , whose headquarters is in the building , also plans to move shortly . 
In addition , another major building tenant , Thomson McKinnon Inc. 's Thomson McKinnon Securities , likely will vacate the premises as part of its liquidation . 
And Chase will have to spend approximately $ 50 million to remove asbestos from the premises . 
, but it has made a promising start . 
, much as a fresh grave may be covered by a blanket of flowers . 
, much as a fresh grave may be covered by a blanket of flowers . 
For example , we 'll bet you thought that the stock market crashed two years ago . 
-LRB- Another much-beloved saying , however , this one in plain English , holds that if something walks like a duck and quacks like a duck , it is a duck . 
. 
, but apparently this word either is not grandiose enough or carries too many negative connotations from the aforementioned technical correction , when terrified customers could n't raise brokers on the phone . 
, instead stressing such terms as `` safe , '' `` insured '' and `` guaranteed '' -- even though these terms may be severely limited in their application to a particular new financial product . 
'' -- even though these terms may be severely limited in their application to a particular new financial product . 
Indeed , conservative investors , many of them elderly , have poured more than $ 50 billion into such funds , which promise fatter yields than ordinary Treasury bonds -- only to learn later that these funds use part of their money to dabble in high-risk bond options , a gambler 's game . 
, which promise fatter yields than ordinary Treasury bonds -- only to learn later that these funds use part of their money to dabble in high-risk bond options , a gambler 's game . 
. 
, but the underlying game has changed . 
For example , `` no load '' mutual funds remain a favorite with investors because they do n't carry a frontend sales commission . 
because they do n't carry a frontend sales commission . 
Getting out of them , however , may be a different story now . 
, and many still do n't . 
In recent years , though , a passel of others flying the no-load flag have been imposing hefty charges -- all the way up to 6 % -- when an investor sells his shares . 
-- when an investor sells his shares . 
, but do n't expect a new name while the old one is working so well . 
while the old one is working so well . 
And do n't expect anyone to change the term `` blue chip , '' either , even though some of the companies that still enjoy the title may be riskier investments than they were . 
, even though some of the companies that still enjoy the title may be riskier investments than they were . 
-- but shorn of its regional telephone units and exposed to competition on every side , it is a far different investment prospect than it was before divestiture . 
Also , blue chips in general have suffered much more short-term price volatility in recent years . 
when certain market conditions prevail . 
Finally , even the time-honored strategy called `` value investing '' no longer means what it once did . 
: 
before new loans were made . 
, but in truth , lacking the capital to write off their mistakes or to build a navy , they have no alternative but to go along . 
, and Gillette said at the time that Mr. Buffett would be added to the board . 
Separately , Gillette said its third-quarter earnings rose 2 % to $ 65.2 million , or 57 cents a share , from $ 63.9 million , or 57 cents a share , in the year-earlier period ; per-share earnings remained flat despite an increase in net income in part because the company paid a $ 10.4 million dividend on the new preferred stock in the period . 
in part because the company paid a $ 10.4 million dividend on the new preferred stock in the period . 
. 
And before the week was out , Sony had offered Mr. Guber and his partner , Jon Peters , the most lucrative employment contracts in the history of the movie business . 
. 
Not only that , Sony also agreed to give them a stake in Columbia 's future profits and buy their company , Guber Peters Entertainment Co. , for $ 200 million , almost 40 % more than the market value of the company . 
But Mr. Guber figured that Warner Communications Inc. chairman Steven Ross , would empathize and let the producers go , knowing the Sony offer was `` the culmination of a life 's work . '' 
And they are a very odd team in any case . 
Yet , they are far and away the most prolific producers in Hollywood . 
And despite their share of duds , they make movies that make money . 
. 
but they are well connected . 
and then getting big studios to bankroll and distribute them . 
With MGM\/UA 's `` Rainman , '' for instance , Messrs. Guber and Peters had virtually nothing to do with day-to-day production , but their names still appear in big letters on the credits , and they are inevitably associated with its success . 
, but their names still appear in big letters on the credits , and they are inevitably associated with its success . 
, and they are inevitably associated with its success . 
And when you 're making a movie this big , you need all the help you can get , '' Mr. De Palma adds . 
, '' Mr. De Palma adds . 
And some movies seem to have been hurt by their inattention . 
`` But by and large this company has only been profitable . '' 
Mr. Peters , on the other hand , has fewer fans in Hollywood , and his detractors like to characterize him as something of a hot-tempered bully . 
, and his detractors like to characterize him as something of a hot-tempered bully . 
He also had to fight harder for credibility than his partner did . 
Mr. Guber , by contrast , has been married to one woman for more than 20 years . 
But for all their intellectual and stylistic differences , they make the perfect `` good cop , bad cop '' team , Hollywood associates say . 
when you 're doing a deal , '' says one agent . 
. '' 
, and all of a sudden Jon shows up . '' 
and ultimately produced the movie , bristle when Messrs. Guber and Peters take credit for the film . 
when Messrs. Guber and Peters take credit for the film . 
. '' 
`` But he wanted to pursue his own dream , and he went . '' 
, and he went . '' 
Still , Mr. Birnbaum says his relationship with Guber Peters was `` one of the most successful I 've had in Hollywood . '' 
, and Peter is very compulsive , '' adds Mr. Birnbaum , who is now head of production at News Corp. 's 20th Century Fox Film Co . 
, but the studio and its producers ultimately agreed to co-produce the film with Guber Peters and Warner . 
, but the studio and its producers ultimately agreed to co-produce the film with Guber Peters and Warner . 
, but it is n't earmarked for groups trying to save the rain forest . -RRB- 
But it is puzzling to some Hollywood executives that Sony rushed to hire them without clearing up the Warner situation first . 
But though `` people in town may ask why Guber needs Peters , it 's good to have a partner , and obviously the chemistry works , '' says Steven Tisch , a producer who once worked for Mr. Guber . 
, '' says Steven Tisch , a producer who once worked for Mr. Guber . 
, and obviously the chemistry works , '' says Steven Tisch , a producer who once worked for Mr. Guber . 
, after the death of Mr. Bogart . 
. 
And the failures make it possible for Warner in its current lawsuit to paint the producers as ingrates . 
, but that Warner never felt threatened until they linked up with Sony . 
until they linked up with Sony . 
, but they never acted , '' Mr. Guber says . 
when Messrs. Guber , Peters and Sugarman made a $ 100 million offer to buy 25 % of MGM\/UA . 
, and the two even tried to interest Warner Bros . ' President Terry Semel in becoming a partner after he advised them on the deal . 
after he advised them on the deal . 
But the MGM plan collapsed just two weeks later . 
Their relationship with Mr. Sugarman soured shortly thereafter . 
and Barris was renamed Guber Peters Entertainment Co . 
Meanwhile , Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters had agreed to extend their Warner agreement with the new five-year exclusive contract . 
But it paled by comparison to what Sony was to offer last month : the chance , at last , to run a major studio , about $ 50 million in deferred compensation , up to 10 % of Columbia 's future cash flow , 8 % of the future appreciation of Columbia 's market value , and annual salaries of $ 2.7 million for each . 
Sony also agreed to indemnify the producers against any liability to Warner . 
And earnings have been erratic . 
But in affidavits filed yesterday in the Los Angeles court , Mr. Ross , Warner Bros. Chairman Robert Daly and President Semel deny that such an oral agreement was ever made . 
Moreover , the old contract was about to expire , and the lineup of Guber Peters pictures for Warner was n't as strong as it is now . 
, and the lineup of Guber Peters pictures for Warner was n't as strong as it is now . 
, and it was `` in Warner 's interest to accommodate MGM\/UA , Guber and Peters by permitting them to become MGM executives , '' Mr. Daly said in his affidavit . 
During settlement talks , for example , Warner demanded such things as cable TV rights to Columbia movies and Columbia 's interest in the studio it jointly owns with Warner , according to executives involved in the talks . 
before taking it up with Warner . 
And they say there are plenty of precedents in Hollywood for letting people out of contracts . 
, then took him back after he was subsequently fired by his bosses at Columbia . 
after he was subsequently fired by his bosses at Columbia . 
. 
And there 's more . 
And the booming market has already attracted many of the nation 's biggest institutional investors . 
But the simplicity may be misleading . 
-- and those are hard to evaluate . 
Moreover , the securities were introduced only about 4 1\/2 years ago ; the biggest unknown is how they will fare in a recession . 
Such concerns , however , have n't stopped asset-backed securities from becoming one of Wall Street 's hottest new products . 
And the biggest volume this year has been on securities backed by credit-card receivables , sometimes known as `` plastic bonds . '' 
. '' 
But wealthy individuals also have been jumping in , and lately brokers have been pushing smaller investors into the asset-backed market . 
But wealthy individuals also have been jumping in , and lately brokers have been pushing smaller investors into the asset-backed market . 
, and lately brokers have been pushing smaller investors into the asset-backed market . 
when an institution , such as Citibank or Sears , Roebuck & Co. , takes a pool of credit-card or other receivables and sells them to a specially created trust . 
The trust then issues securities -- generally due in five years or less -- that are underwritten by Wall Street brokerage firms and offered to investors . 
, and thus have received high credit ratings . 
, while providing a valuable new investment for individuals and institutions . 
But skeptics question whether asset-backed bonds offer sufficient rewards to compensate for the extra risks . 
and whose livelihood depends on outperforming the money manager across the street . 
But for individuals who buy much smaller amounts and care less about relative performance than in preserving what they have , that margin is meaningless . 
, then even an extra 25 basis points -LRB- 0.25 percentage point -RRB- becomes an important consideration on a career basis , '' says Mr. Grant . 
`` But if you 're an individual investing money and trying to get it back again , then that is n't of overwhelming importance . '' 
, then that is n't of overwhelming importance . '' 
Moreover , the interest on asset-backed securities is fully taxable , while interest on Treasury issues is tax-free at the state and local level . 
, while interest on Treasury issues is tax-free at the state and local level . 
But Mr. Powers has purchased asset-backed issues for individuals with tax-deferred accounts , such as retirement plans . 
before the securities mature . 
because it 's such a thinly traded market , '' says Jonathan S. Paris , a vice president of European Investors Inc. , a New York investment-management firm . 
In addition , an investor who wants to know the daily value of Treasury bonds , or corporate bonds traded on the New York Stock Exchange , can simply check newspaper listings . 
Investors , for instance , may mistakenly assume that the bank or company that originally held the assets is guaranteeing the securities . 
In other words , if there 's a problem , do n't expect Citibank to come to the rescue . 
. 
The prospectus also notes that the securities are not guaranteed by any government agency . 
That also is n't easy . 
Nor does it cover the entire portfolio . 
Still , they play a crucial role in winning top ratings for most asset-backed issues -- which in turn is why the yield above Treasurys is so slim . 
-- which in turn is why the yield above Treasurys is so slim . 
But skeptics ask why you should bother buying this stuff when you can get only slightly lower yields on government-guaranteed paper . 
when you can get only slightly lower yields on government-guaranteed paper . 
. 
. 
, that could also affect the ratings , liquidity and prices of the asset-backed issues that the bank supports . 
But despite the credit enhancements , despite the high ratings , some money managers still worry that a recession could wreak havoc on the underlying assets . 
But it could be much worse . 
In addition , they fear that banks have been overeager to issue cards to the public -- giving cards to too many big spenders who will default during a recession . 
, and therefore we think the best debt investment is U.S. government bonds , '' says Craig Corcoran of Davis\/Zweig Futures Inc. , an investment advisory firm . 
, and therefore we think the best debt investment is U.S. government bonds , '' says Craig Corcoran of Davis\/Zweig Futures Inc. , an investment advisory firm . 
And it reminds Raymond F. DeVoe Jr. , a market strategist at Legg Mason Wood Walker Inc. , of what he calls `` DeVoe 's Unprovable but Highly Probable Theory No. 1 : 
. 
For example , about 88 % of Journal readers owned stock -LRB- down slightly from 91 % in a similar poll last year -RRB- . But only 17.5 % said they had more than half their money in the stock market . 
But only 17.5 % said they had more than half their money in the stock market . 
But only 6 % to 7 % of the investors were committing more than half their funds to either of those alternatives . Similarly , 57 % of respondents own shares in a money-market mutual fund , and 33 % own municipal bonds . 
, and 33 % own municipal bonds . 
But only 6 % to 7 % of the investors were committing more than half their funds to either of those alternatives . 
The poll , conducted Aug. 7-28 , also provides a glimpse into the thinking of serious investors on a variety of other topics . 
The results ca n't be extrapolated to all investors , though . 
, and 17 % said it was worth $ 1 million or more . 
, but their collective judgments were a notch more sober than they were a year ago . 
For example , 12 % of this year 's respondents said they expect a recession within 12 months . Last year , only 8 % were expecting a recession . 
By contrast , only 32 % expect an increase in the price of gold . Since gold tends to soar when inflation is high , that finding suggests that people believe inflation remains under control . 
. 
when inflation is high , that finding suggests that people believe inflation remains under control . 
. 
if and when a recession might come '' -LRB- about 22 % -RRB- . 
But the lurking shadow of 1987 's stock-market crash still seems dark . 
, '' while about 63 % said one is `` unlikely . '' 
And the respondents ' commitment to the stock market remains somewhat lighter than usual . 
But as of August , only 50 % actually had stock-market investments of that size . 
But it appears that many Journal readers were taking that news as a sign to be cautious , rather than a signal to jump on the bandwagon . 
, and that it continues to suffer from the high cost of carrying nonperforming assets , and from high loan-loss provisions . 
, the experts said , if it is transmitted over the air . 
if they spend a few thousand dollars for a commercially available microwave receiver with amplifier and a VCR recorder . 
, the experts said . 
By contrast , European firms will spend $ 150 million this year on electronic security , and are expected to spend $ 1 billion by 1992 . 
Still , encrypting corporate communications is only a partial remedy . 
Moreover , he said , technology now exists for stealing corporate secrets after they 've been `` erased '' from a computer 's memory . 
after they 've been `` erased '' from a computer 's memory . 
but that the information was later retrieved for congressional committees to read . 
but that the information was later retrieved for congressional committees to read . 
The Soviets ' eavesdropping paid off , however , because they got the contract . 
, because they got the contract . 
if they are successful in acquiring the vaccine maker . 
, and Institut Merieux S.A. of France has made a rival bid of C$ 942 million . 
if Ciba-Geigy and Chiron are successful with their lower bid . 
and Chiron is based in Emeryville , Calif . 
In a statement , Jacques-Francois Martin , director general of Merieux , said the French company is still determined to acquire Connaught . 
. '' 
On the other hand , Valley National tumbled 24 % after reporting a sizable third-quarter loss . 
after reporting a sizable third-quarter loss . 
, as the Nasdaq 100 Index jumped 10.01 , or 2 % , to 463.06 . 
By comparison , the Dow Jones Industrials and the New York Stock Exchange Composite each rose 1.5 % . 
, and the `` other finance '' index , made up of commercial banks and real estate and brokerage firms , rose 3.97 to 545.96 . 
and 629 fell . 
But there was a dearth of sellers , traders said , so buyers had to bid prices up to entice them . 
, traders said , so buyers had to bid prices up to entice them . 
. 
, and Oracle Systems rose 3\/4 to 25 3\/4 . 
Additionally , Moody 's Investors Service said it downgraded Valley National 's senior debt and confirmed the company 's commercial paper rating of `` not prime . '' 
after trading began . 
, but that was Pacific time . 
, so I did n't have to feel guilty . 
Even still , I did feel self-indulgent , and I could n't help remembering my father 's contempt for a rich medical colleague who would go to watch the Tigers on summer afternoons . 
, and I could n't help remembering my father 's contempt for a rich medical colleague who would go to watch the Tigers on summer afternoons . 
And it did n't have the crowded wild intimacy of Yankee Stadium . 
But I liked the easy friendliness of the people around me , liked it that they 'd brought their children , found it charming that , true citizens of the state of the future , they had brought so many TVs and radios to stay in touch with electroreality at a live event . 
while you were living it ? 
, and the stands began to reverberate . 
But then the noise turned into a roar . 
But then the noise turned into a roar . 
And no one was shouting . 
Because we all were busy riding a wave . 
Then I remembered the quake of '71 , which I experienced in Santa Barbara in a second-story motel room . 
. 
Then I noticed the overhead light was swaying on its cord and realized what had happened . 
But the lot might split into crevasses , so I had better stand on my car , which probably was wider than the average crevasse . 
, so I had better stand on my car , which probably was wider than the average crevasse . 
before I managed to run out and stand naked on the hood . 
and then it struck me that this time was different . 
and then it struck me that this time was different . 
and then it struck me that this time was different . 
. 
But for a few minutes there , relief abounded . 
, but the center had held . 
And most of us waited for a while for the game to start . 
Then we began to file out , to wait safely on terra firma for the opening pitch . 
. 
before I got to my car . 
And by then , expensive automobile sound systems were keeping the gridlocked parking lot by the bay informed about the fire causing the big black plume of smoke we saw on the northern horizon . 
And by then , expensive automobile sound systems were keeping the gridlocked parking lot by the bay informed about the fire causing the big black plume of smoke we saw on the northern horizon . 
But the broadcasts continued through the blacked-out night , with pictures of the sandwiched highway ganglion in Oakland and firefighting in the Marina district . 
By then , our little sand village of cars had been linked with a global village of listeners and viewers . 
In fact , the entire population of the Bay Area had ended up with this dual role of actor and audience . 
and some of the victims turned into unofficial reporters . 
as it fell into the gap in the roadway . 
before the night was out . 
In fact , last Friday 's 190.58-point tumble in the stock market caught many people and businesses by surprise , not the least of them brokerage firms such as Shearson that print their weekly market commentaries on Fridays for dissemination the following week . 
so , `` We decided to kill our strategy pieces , '' says Jack Rivkin , the head of Shearson 's research department . 
, and that 's why it purged its pages . 
But Mr. Rivkin insists that the 10 pages were n't pulled because they were too bullish . 
because they were too bullish . 
Instead , he says , `` they were cautious , and that was n't the message we wanted to deliver '' on Monday . 
, and that was n't the message we wanted to deliver '' on Monday . 
And by late Friday afternoon , actually after the close , we decided that was the wrong tone to take . 
, while consumer prices still are rising . 
. 
. 
, while inflation peaked last February at nearly 30 % . -RRB- 
The slowdown also results from chronic energy and raw-materials shortages that force many factories to restrict operations to two or three days a week . 
In China , however , there is n't likely to be any silver lining because the economy remains guided primarily by the state . 
because the economy remains guided primarily by the state . 
Instead , China is likely to shell out ever-greater subsidies to its coddled state-run enterprises , which ate up $ 18 billion in bailouts last year . 
Nor are any of these inefficient monoliths likely to be allowed to go bankrupt . 
Rather , the brunt of the slowdown will be felt in the fast-growing private and semi-private `` township '' enterprises , which have fallen into disfavor as China 's leaders re-emphasize an orthodox Marxist preference for public ownership . 
as China 's leaders re-emphasize an orthodox Marxist preference for public ownership . 
, '' says a Western economist . 
as officials prepare a major Communist Party plenum for sometime in the next few weeks . 
But with industrial growth stagnant and inflation showing signs of easing , some voices may call for measures to pump new life into the economy . 
. 
But while pumping more money into the economy would bring relief to many industries , it also runs the risk of triggering another period of runaway growth and steep inflation . 
. 
, it also runs the risk of triggering another period of runaway growth and steep inflation . 
since China began reforming its planned economy in 1979 . 
And , because China 's leaders have abandoned plans to drastically reform the economy , it is likely to continue , analysts say . 
, analysts say . 
so that they can purchase manufacturers ' goods . 
, which will otherwise cause new panic buyings , '' the spokesman said . 
, and interest groups are lining up for tax goodies all over Capitol Hill . 
And heavy-industry lobbyists are quietly discussing the possibility of reinstating the investment tax credit . 
, and also to bring back income averaging for farmers , a tax preference that allows income to be spread out over several years . 
As part of the same bill , the finance panel also voted in favor of billions of dollars in narrow tax breaks for individuals and corporations , in what committee member Sen. David Pryor -LRB- D. , Ark . -RRB- calls a `` feeding frenzy '' of special-interest legislating . 
But lawmakers of both parties agree that the streamlining was temporary . 
and the cheese smells pretty good , '' commented one veteran lobbyist who was watching the proceedings . 
Real-estate interests , for example , are protesting an omission in President Bush 's capital-gains proposal : It does n't include real-estate gains . 
, '' says real-estate lobbyist Wayne Thevenot of Concord Associates . 
But Sotheby 's , Christie 's and the National Association of Antique Dealers are still trying to get theirs . 
They have sent a letter to congressional tax-writers asking that gains from the sale of collectibles also be given preferential treatment . 
Many other tax benefits also were swept away . 
and they got a revolution , '' says overhaul advocate Rep. Willis Gradison -LRB- R. , Ohio -RRB- . 
and then to his hometown of Chicago for the 30th reunion of St. Ignatius High School . 
, but that 's what I did , '' the 48-year-old Mr. Juliano moans . 
, even though the number of flights rose 6.9 % to 215,845 in the first-three quarters . 
. 
. 
, he throws his heart instead . 
, '' which seemed to go beyond parody into something like burlesque . 
. 
. 
But the lovebirds have a conflict . 
, and she wants him to live off the million dollars she 's settled on him . 
and there 's even a cameo by Bernie Ohls , the `` good cop '' of previous Chandler books who still does n't hesitate to have Marlowe jailed when it suits his purposes . 
when it suits his purposes . 
But there are grounds for complaint . 
-- and Marlowe is supposed to be the pro . 
`` But one gets fed up with importing information and news . '' 
, after making major investments in entertainment , real estate and banking companies here . 
And they are quietly linking up with U.S. publishing trade groups . 
. 
, but they are also opportunistic and if they feel comfortable , they will move on a deal , '' he said . 
`` It may not be weeks or months , but they are also opportunistic and if they feel comfortable , they will move on a deal , '' he said . 
, '' he said . 
. 
`` Before , they were interested in hard assets and they saw magazines as soft . 
and they saw magazines as soft . 
, while Nynex Corp. , Pacific Telesis Group and U S West Inc. reported earnings declines for the period . 
Overall they increased 2.8 % to 12.1 million , putting U S West over the 12 million mark for the first time . 
The company also was hurt by a $ 289 million rate reduction that went into effect in 1989 . 
and minutes of telephone usage increased to 9.9 billion . 
, as gasoline refining and marketing profits lagged substantially behind last year 's record level . 
but that no single clean-up project was responsible . 
The industry 's chemical profits also declined because excess capacity has depressed prices . 
because excess capacity has depressed prices . 
, some industry officials say , but they believe chemical margins could worsen . 
Amoco also sharply boosted natural-gas output , part of it from properties acquired from Tenneco Inc. last year . 
But foreign exploration and production earnings fell sharply , to $ 12 million from $ 95 million . 
but if unusual items are excluded , operations produced essentially flat results . 
. 
if cash-strapped companies such as Campeau Corp. slash tags to spur sales . 
Concerns about the stock market , doubts about the economy in general and rising competition from catalog companies also haunt store operators . 
. 
; Campeau 's Bloomingdale 's is also on the block . 
But Mr. Steidtmann predicts that healthy stores hawking mostly apparel could ring up gains of as much as 25 % to 30 % . 
, he believes , as managers distracted by fears about the future allow their stores to get sloppy . 
Thin merchandise selections at the most troubled chains are also expected to hurt sales . 
because they did n't believe they would get it by Christmas , '' says Adam Strum , chairman of the Wine Enthusiast Inc. , which sells wine cellars and accessories through the mail . 
, but he is `` more optimistic than three months ago '' because employment remains strong and inflation low . 
'' because employment remains strong and inflation low . 
Other retailers are also preparing for a ho-hum holiday . 
, '' says Woolworth Corp. Chairman Harold E. Sells , `` but it is n't going to be a bust either . '' 
A consumer poll conducted in early September by Leo J. Shapiro & Associates , a market researcher based in Chicago , also suggests a modest holiday . 
, while 28 % said they expect to spend more and 37 % said their gift budget would stay the same . 
and 37 % said their gift budget would stay the same . 
But many consumers probably will use the extra time to put off some purchasing until the last minute . 
, '' predicts Woolworth 's Mr. Sells . 
when Franco triumphed , Mr. Cela fought briefly on the general 's side , no doubt earning with his war wound some forbearance when he went on to depict a country with a high population of vagabonds , murderers and rural idiots trudging aimlessly through a dried-out land . 
when he went on to depict a country with a high population of vagabonds , murderers and rural idiots trudging aimlessly through a dried-out land . 
Still , it was in Argentine editions that his countrymen first read his story of Pascal Duarte , a field worker who stabbed his mother to death and has no regrets as he awaits his end in a prison cell : `` Fate directs some men down the flower-bordered path , and others down the road bordered with thistles and prickly pears . 
as he awaits his end in a prison cell : `` Fate directs some men down the flower-bordered path , and others down the road bordered with thistles and prickly pears . 
, ' and in it I 've treated a few neglected aspects of that eternal problem which ... '' 
, if you do n't mind ? '' 
and I think I may say with pride that there is not a single discordant word in the whole text . '' 
, but in any case I feel confident that good sense and honest judgment ... '' 
if one is defeated , provided the work that gets the award has unmistakable qualities . 
? 
, while they privately encourage more assertive U.S. action to remove Gen. Manuel Noriega and safeguard their countries from a Sandinista onslaught . 
But other than a few slaps on the wrist , Gen. Noriega went unpunished by that body , too ; he was not even singled out in the closing statement . 
However , Mr. Ortega was included . 
Nevertheless , the Bush administration agreed to the dubious arrangement in July , a few weeks before the Central American presidents met in Tela , Honduras , to discuss a timetable for disbanding the anti-Sandinista rebels . 
However , relying on an ardent critic of the Reagan administration and the Contra movement for help in delaying the disarming of the Contras was risky business . 
And even some last-minute phone calls that Mr. Bush made -LRB- at the behest of some conservative U.S. senators -RRB- to enlist backing for the U.S. position failed to stop the march of Mr. Arias 's agenda . 
Aid was also the gist of the talks Sen. Dodd had with Salvadoran President Alfredo Cristiani ; Mr. Cristiani 's government is very much at the mercy of U.S. largess and is forced to listen very carefully to Sen. Dodd 's likes and dislikes . 
It was therefore not surprising that close allies of the U.S. , virtually neglected by the Bush administration , ordered the Nicaraguan insurgents dismantled by December , long before the elections . 
if the U.S. did likewise with its allies in Central America . 
He also called on Nicaragua 's neighbors to accept a `` military equilibrium '' guaranteed by both superpowers . 
. 
and that provided by Washington to freely elected governments . 
Furthermore , it is also likely to encourage those on Capitol Hill asking for cuts in the assistance to El Salvador if President Cristiani does not bend to demands of the Marxist guerrillas . 
Furthermore , it is also likely to encourage those on Capitol Hill asking for cuts in the assistance to El Salvador if President Cristiani does not bend to demands of the Marxist guerrillas . 
if President Cristiani does not bend to demands of the Marxist guerrillas . 
In the meantime , Russia gave Nicaragua another powerful radio transmitter , which has been installed in the city of Esteli . 
if his much-heralded peace plan would fail , President Arias voiced expectations of direct U.S. action . 
. 
But in the light of events in Panama , where the U.S. has such clear strategic interests , waiting for the Delta Force may prove to be a dangerous gambit . 
Separately , the hotel and gambling giant said it was proceeding with plans to make a tender offer and solicit consents with respect to approximately $ 1.4 billion of its publicly traded debt . 
when it agreed to buy the Holiday Inn business in August . 
Holiday said its 15 % notes due 1992 also will be included in the tender offer and consent solicitation at a price to be determined by Holiday prior to the commencement of the offer . 
. 
. 
and Paramount last month agreed to purchase a 79 % stake in the TVX Broadcast Group from Salomon Inc. in a deal valued at $ 140 million . 
because Fox has the desirable independent stations in most of the key cities . 
, although the company plans to expand to other weeknights . 
It is also planning another night of original series . 
The executive said Paramount and MCA have also held discussions with Chris-Craft Industries ' broadcasting unit , which owns five independent stations in cities such as Los Angeles , San Francisco and Portland , Ore . 
, while Banco Popular has always had a large presence among middle-income and lower-income markets . 
The merger should also allow the companies to reduce costs by combining operations in many locations in Puerto Rico . 
and full-year earnings will trail last year 's results . 
But yesterday , the company said this year 's profit will be lower . 
Suffering from a downturn in heavy truck production that cut orders for its engines , Caterpillar also said it will indefinitely lay off about 325 workers in the Peoria area and temporarily shut its plant in York , Pa. , for two weeks in both November and December . 
, but will cease further purchases until Nov. 22 , when it releases third-quarter results . 
The Anglo-French financier has indicated he intends to bid again for B.A.T if he receives approval . Meanwhile , Sir James still is pursuing efforts to gain U.S. insurance regulators ' approval for a change in control of B.A.T 's Farmers Group Inc. unit . 
if he receives approval . 
after dropping development of an interactive video entertainment system . 
as we enter the Christmas buying season . '' 
Separately , Reebok completed the acquisition of CML Group Inc. 's Boston Whaler unit , a builder of power boats . 
The agreement also called for Reebok to receive warrants to purchase 400,000 shares of CML common at $ 31.25 a share , exercisable at any time before July 1 , 
Separately , Pitney Bowes said third-quarter net income gained 15 % to $ 62 million , or 78 cents a share , from $ 54 million , or 68 cents a share , a year ago . 
, although officials were hopeful yesterday that the death toll there might be significantly lower than the 250 initially feared . 
while jackhammers tried to break up some of the massive slabs of concrete . 
However , he asserted that the department had n't mastered the technology needed to retrofit the entire Cypress structure . 
Moreover , other officials noted , snafus in transportation funding that the state has experienced over the years may have restricted the availability of funds for such a retrofitting , even if it were technologically feasible . 
, even if it were technologically feasible . 
. 
, then connecting them more securely to the double-decker roadbed . 
The employees also said the project may have been snagged by budgetary concerns . 
Transportation department officials , however , said they were as surprised as anyone by the Cypress destruction . 
, although they were working on ways to bolster them . 
, and that is an earthquake , '' said Burch Bachtold , San Francisco district director for the transportation department . 
but the company delayed the meeting to allow time for the Securities and Exchange Commission to review the proposal . 
However , that figure could be revised , Financial Corp. said . 
. 
Financial Corp. also is proposing to exchange each of its 130,000 outstanding shares of cumulative convertible preferred series A stock for two shares of common . 
while urging other industrial nations to follow suit . 
West German officials also have the special goal of holding out hope for East Germany 's fledgling reform movement . 
, and that relations between the two German states , too , will get better , '' said Foreign Minister Hans-Dietrich Genscher . 
U.S. curbs on the exports of sensitive technology to East bloc countries will remain in place , however . 
Meanwhile , the U.S. House of Representatives yesterday approved an $ 837.5 million aid package for Poland and Hungary that more than doubles the amount President Bush had requested . 
just 15 days after it was introduced , indicating Congress 's eagerness to reward Poland and Hungary for their moves toward democracy and freemarket economic reforms . 
In addition , a group of 24 industrialized countries , including the U.S. and Japan and coordinated by the European Community Commission , has promised Poland and Hungary trade advice and a line of credit equivalent to $ 1.11 billion through the European Investment Bank , while the EC plans $ 222 million in direct aid . 
, while the EC plans $ 222 million in direct aid . 
. 
In addition , a one billion mark credit dating from 1974 is to be written off . 
West Germany also has increased its credit guarantees to Hungary by 500 million marks to 1.5 billion marks as the emerging democratic state rushes through its own economic reforms , including a broad privatization of state-owned industry and tax incentives for industrial investment . 
as the emerging democratic state rushes through its own economic reforms , including a broad privatization of state-owned industry and tax incentives for industrial investment . 
as they shift to free-market economies . 
Indeed , at least four other West German banks are believed to be making inquiries . 
He said the toy company 's `` prospects for a strong fourth quarter '' are also good . 
The company also cited retail trade and consumer demand for new products introduced this year , such as Cherry Merry Muffin and Turtle Tots . 
as it was offset by tax benefits . 
. 
because they 've been shielded the most . 
, even as pro-choice Republicans knew this mattered little on an issue monopolized by the court . 
. 
, but later pro-life , converting again ? 
In fact , Mr. Bush 's dance was more wiggle than waffle . 
. 
, and Mr. Bush quickly signaled a veto . 
, though delegates were evenly divided on the question of an anti-abortion constitutional amendment . 
, but she was talking to herself . 
if they had framed the issue first . 
But Mr. Mahe adds , `` The net loser in the next few years is the right-to-life side . '' 
But the Supreme Court 's opening of debate may have changed even that . 
, but they 'll do for some politicians . 
after right-to-life activists opposed him . 
, after he gave wrong answers on abortion . 
. 
, though HHS spends billions a year on both . 
. 
, so the extremes blossomed . 
In addition , the company cited cost-reduction moves and interest income . 
. 
before the bailout legislation was enacted , is being liquidated . 
, '' Mr. Seidman said , `` so get out your checkbooks . 
and bonds due 1997-2000 carry 6 3\/4 % coupons . 
Separately , $ 400 million of Freddie Mac Remic mortgage securities is being offered in 10 classes by Kidder , Peabody & Co . 
since the program began in February 1988 . 
Also , the company issued 300 million marks of convertible bonds with an indicated 2 3\/4 % coupon due March 31 , 1995 , at par , via Westdeutsche Landesbank Girozentrale Bank . 
when terms are fixed Oct. 25 . 
so we can get more information . 
Then the computers give us more information than we can ever read . 
because they do n't have time to wade through the muck . '' 
if the cost of all the news wires is included . 
And it works best in high-powered personal computers . 
But some investors and consultants who have tried it are enthusiastic . 
as they come in . 
It also tracks personnel and financial announcements by NEC 's distributors and customers . 
, '' Mr. Amram says . 
If a customer asks for stories about `` IBM , '' the computer will also supply stories that mention `` I.B.M. , International Business Machines , or Big Blue , '' Mr. Amram says . 
Moreover , Individual Inc. 's computers can weigh the value of an article based on how closely the story matches the subscriber 's interest area . 
And it calculates how often the words appear in the story compared with how often they appear in the entire data base . 
, but the editors confirm every one . 
The humans also write abstracts of articles from some 200 computer industry publications . 
; each newsletter is sent directly from the computer to the subscriber 's fax machine . 
and what 's important , '' says Chuck Digate , a former Lotus Development executive who has started a new company to cope with the problem . 
if it comes from certain designated senders or requires action in the next couple of days . 
`` so the message will be smart enough to know to come back and bother you again next week . '' 
And if a user is busy , `` he can set it for crisis mode : ` Do n't bother me with reports until Monday . ' '' 
: ` Do n't bother me with reports until Monday . ' '' 
A program called Notes , which is under development by Lotus , also is designed to sort E-mail sent within work groups . 
A daily news briefing from the company librarian , for example , would have a distinctive format on the screen , just as a paper version would have . 
It also awarded $ 196,785 in back bonuses to former trader Michael Newcomb and $ 69,105 in fees to the two men 's attorneys . 
The company , which also has businesses in life insurance , office products and hardware , and home-improvement products , said net income rose to $ 166.4 million , or $ 1.71 a share , from $ 146.8 million , or $ 1.53 a share , a year earlier . 
after the stock market 's roller-coaster ride . 
But a House Energy and Commerce subcommittee will quiz SEC Chairman Breeden Wednesday , and Treasury Secretary Brady will go before the Senate Banking panel Thursday . 
, and Treasury Secretary Brady will go before the Senate Banking panel Thursday . 
It may also expedite the SEC 's modest pending changes in junk-bond disclosure rules and intensify the Treasury 's look at plans for giving new tax breaks on dividends and raising taxes on short-term trades by pension funds . 
Baker nonetheless remains furious both at Shamir , for backing down on the elections , and at Shamir 's rival , Peres , for political ineptitude in forcing a premature cabinet vote on Baker 's plan . 
Meanwhile , some U.S. officials fear PLO chief Arafat is getting cold feet and may back off from his recent moderation and renunciation of terrorism . 
, but House GOP leader Michel , who carried the offer to him , observes , `` I was speaking English at the time , and quite loud so I could be understood . '' 
so I could be understood . '' 
But Darman suggests such tensions will dissipate quickly . 
, '' he jokes . 
. '' 
But now , an official says , he is `` surrounded by right-to-lifers , '' who contend that any breakthroughs in fetal-tissue research could increase the demand for abortions . 
; some also fear rising protectionism as European unity nears . 
as European unity nears . 
. 
. 
The Bush administration would also like to nominate a woman ; one possibility is former Justice Department official Victoria Toensing . 
, and its opening line is , `` Please excuse my handwriting . '' 
But Burns confesses in an interview : `` That 's not my handwriting . 
. 
And , in addition to a crack team of sailors , Mr. Isler has lined up some real brass to help him finance the syndicate . 
, and sailing syndicate budgets can easily run to $ 25 million for a Cup challenge . 
But because of the uncertainty of the outcome of the suit , Mr. Conner 's team has done little to begin gearing up to defend its title . 
, '' said Dana Smith , an official with Team Dennis Conner . 
until the suit is resolved and the race site is determined , Mr. Smith said , and the syndicate 's budget could easily reach $ 30 million . 
and the race site is determined , Mr. Smith said , and the syndicate 's budget could easily reach $ 30 million . 
, Mr. Smith said , and the syndicate 's budget could easily reach $ 30 million . 
But spokesmen for both Mr. Isler and Mr. Conner say the formation of the new syndicate has to do with Mr. Isler 's desire to skipper his own team and begin planning now , rather than any falling out between the two sportsmen . 
But I 'd also rather live next door to an incinerator than to some of the hog farms I 've seen -LRB- and smelt -RRB- in these parts . 
But I 'd also rather live next door to an incinerator than to some of the hog farms I 've seen -LRB- and smelt -RRB- in these parts . 
An incinerator is also probably better than having nobody next door -- on our farm there are four unoccupied houses . 
? 
, but if handled with care , their benefits far outweigh any risk to the environment . 
. 
, a federal judge ruled . 
when its valuable 1930s mural was thrown in the trash does n't mean the city no longer owns the work of art , a federal judge ruled . 
. 
Mr. Hoelzer , however , sued Stamford , claiming that the city had abandoned the artwork and that it had waited too long to reclaim it . 
and that it had waited too long to reclaim it . 
But Judge Louis L. Stanton of federal court in Manhattan ruled that the city could n't be faulted for waiting too long because it did n't realize until 1986 that its ownership of the painting was in dispute . 
because it did n't realize until 1986 that its ownership of the painting was in dispute . 
The judge also ruled that the painting was n't abandoned because officials did n't intend for it to be thrown away and were unaware that the workmen had discarded it . 
because officials did n't intend for it to be thrown away and were unaware that the workmen had discarded it . 
Rumors of Soviet interest also pushed up the prices of soybean futures contracts . 
The harvest delays , however , are expected to be temporary . 
He noted that the `` core inflation rate , '' which excludes food and energy , was also low at 0.2 % . 
; and the dollar strengthened during the day , putting pressure on gold . 
Also , the analyst said , economic circumstances are such that both South Africa and the Soviet Union , the principal gold and platinum producers , are being forced to continue selling the metals . 
, and South Africa is also under pressure to meet foreign loan commitments , he said . 
, and South Africa is also under pressure to meet foreign loan commitments , he said . 
and thus reduced demand for copper , a leading industrial metal . 
In recent days , however , there has been increased purchasing of copper in London , an analyst said . 
, but even if any of these mines begin operating soon , their output wo n't be significant until at least the end of the year , analysts note . 
, analysts note . 
So , one analyst said , even though the long-term production problems may be easing , there will still be a significant need for copper over the next three months , when inventories will remain relatively low . 
, when inventories will remain relatively low . 
But so-called outer month contracts finished higher . 
For instance , December contracts for WTI rose 17 cents to $ 20.42 . 
But a flurry of late trading yesterday beefed up prices . 
. 
But lawyers looking to cash in on the quake may have a tough time once their cases reach a judge . 
once their cases reach a judge . 
, or whether they have liability or not . 
But that wo n't stop plaintiffs ' lawyers from seeking a little room for maneuvering . 
Therefore , engineering firms , construction contractors and developers can be sued for not keeping structures up to standard , and government agencies can be held accountable for failing to properly protect citizens from such a foreseeable disaster , if negligence can be proven . 
, and government agencies can be held accountable for failing to properly protect citizens from such a foreseeable disaster , if negligence can be proven . 
, if negligence can be proven . 
while surrounding buildings appeared to sustain no damage whatsoever . 
until the smoke clears -- but yes , we 're looking into it , '' he says . 
-- but yes , we 're looking into it , '' he says . 
, though they add that the facts of each case must be looked at individually . 
But if defendants can prove that they met San Francisco 's stringent building codes , `` that 's probably going to protect them , '' Mr. Ruvolo says . 
, '' Mr. Ruvolo says . 
when plans and designs for public structures were approved ahead of time or when structures met previously approved standards , says Mr. Covert . 
or when structures met previously approved standards , says Mr. Covert . 
when plans and designs for public structures were approved ahead of time or when structures met previously approved standards , says Mr. Covert . 
Nevertheless , he adds , `` I would n't get totally shocked if we get lawsuits out of the Bay Bridge . '' 
if we get lawsuits out of the Bay Bridge . '' 
. 
, and Mr. Belli 's courtyard was strewn with bricks . 
In a news release issued by Mr. Drivon , the trial lawyers association also promised free assistance to victims . 
, '' said Mr. Burton , former chief accountant of the Securities and Exchange Commission . 
General Motors Corp. , a Deloitte audit client , for example , has agreed to keep its annual $ 18 million world-wide audit and associated tax work with the merged Deloitte-Touche firm , to be known as Deloitte & Touche in the U.S. . 
. 
, '' but he declined further comment . 
He also declined to comment on the name that Coopers would use in England if Deloitte UK won its litigation to keep its name . 
if Deloitte UK won its litigation to keep its name . 
He acknowledged , however , that Washington 's `` drug-related murder rate is intolerably high . 
But other Bush administration officials have criticized Maryland Gov. William Schaefer for blocking the use of possible sites in that state . 
Administration officials also have said that Washington Mayor Marion Barry has delayed consideration of sites in the city . 
He also noted that the federal Drug Enforcement Administration has established a federal-local task force responsible since April for 106 arrests and more than $ 2 million in seizures of drug dealers ' assets . 
, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation has provided crime laboratory facilities and training , he added . 
if emergency strikes . 
. 
. '' 
. 
when you have everyone 's attention , '' she says . 
It also recommends that employees be aware of everyday office items that could be used for emergency care or shelter . 
, while removable wooden shelves might aid in `` breaking through office walls . '' 
if payroll operations in Pasadena were disrupted . 
just as the company was reviewing its own emergency procedures . 
`` Then we had a real one in the afternoon . '' 
Hewlett-Packard also called in its systems experts to restore its own computer operations . 
, not knowing if employees were injured or vaults were broken open . 
, they still lost touch for more than 24 hours with 15 branches in the affected areas , not knowing if employees were injured or vaults were broken open . 
or vaults were broken open . 
and the vaults withstood the jolts . 
Still , says Mr. Lee : `` We need to educate people that they need to get to a phone somehow , some way , to let someone know what their status is . '' 
The company also maintains rechargeable flashlights in offices and changes its standby supply of drinking water every three months . 
The park also has emergency centers where specially trained employees would go to coordinate evacuation and rescue plans using walkie-talkies , cellular phones , and a public-address system . 
But two other major storms have threatened operations so far this year , most recently Hurricane Jerry this week . 
-- the closer a storm gets , the more complete the shutdown . 
if you get a big tidal surge . '' 
Still , Vista officials realize they 're relatively fortunate . 
because there 's no warning . 
when the Bank Board closed the Independent American Savings Association of Irving , Texas . 
, wiping out the value of Mr. Gaubert 's real estate contribution and his stock in the institution . 
because she was pregnant . 
after she refused to accept a lower paying , less visible job upon reaching her sixth month of pregnancy . 
because he felt customers would be uncomfortable with a pregnant maitre 'd . 
, and a pregnant woman is not svelte . 
and we do n't hire cripples . 
And pregnant women are fat . ' '' 
because she was pregnant . 
, although she had stopped working at the restaurant . 
if the government pays their tab as court-appointed lawyers . 
because it would delay a retrial . 
when the Senate votes on the impeachment today . 
However , operating profit fell 35 % to $ 16.4 million . 
, but we just do n't see a big turnaround in the trend in advertising . '' 
until real linage starts heading back up . '' 
`` But many newspapers are facing similar comparisons . '' 
The company also has a stock-repurchase plan . 
when profits are stable during a time revenue is in the trough . 
But the dollar was mixed . 
, and the widely watched market barometer is about 4 % below its record high set earlier this month . 
Indeed , over-the-counter stocks , led by technology issues , outleaped the industrial average . 
, which in turn would be good news for stocks , investment managers say . 
, and that means my interest-rate outlook has a downward tilt , '' said Garnett L. Keith Jr. , vice chairman of Prudential Insurance Co. of America , one of the nation 's largest institutional investors . 
Despite the inflation news , several Fed officials still fear consumer-price pressures will intensify because they insist the economy is stronger than generally believed . 
because they insist the economy is stronger than generally believed . 
But Wall Street analysts expect further signs of economic weakness in government reports during the next few weeks . 
. 
That , in turn , is expected to persuade banks to cut their prime lending rate , a benchmark rate on many corporate and consumer loans , by half a percentage point , to 10 % . 
But the economy `` is slowing enough to give the Federal Reserve leeway to reduce interest rates . '' 
But many individual investors are leery about stocks because of fresh signs of fragility in the huge junk-bond market . 
Investors also are anxious about today 's `` witching hour , '' the monthly expiration of stock-index futures and options , and options on individual stocks . 
But it fell to 1.8470 marks from 1.8485 . 
. 
while voting in office -- dealing with national issues -LRB- programmatic actions such as casting roll call votes on legislation that imposes costs and\/or confers benefits on the population at large -RRB- and attending to local issues -LRB- constituency service and pork barrel -RRB- . 
but their selected legislator will be relatively powerless to prevent other legislators from `` bringing home the bacon '' to their respective constituencies . 
when it comes to national policy making . 
. 
, such a president is also likely to be more effective at preventing other districts\/states and their legislators from bringing home the local benefits . 
The individual voter 's standing consequently will be enhanced through lower taxes . 
and the prisoner 's dilemma problem confronting voters in races for Congress was considerably less severe . 
For example , first-term members of the House , once the most vulnerable of incumbents , have become virtually immune to defeat . 
. 
Finally , the theory suggests why Republicans generally have fared better in Senate races than in campaigns for the House . 
and national policy making matters less in the lower chamber of Congress , this is precisely the pattern one would expect if Republicans are less willing to engage in local benefit-seeking than their Democratic counterparts . 
if Republicans are less willing to engage in local benefit-seeking than their Democratic counterparts . 
. 
and that participating in such votes takes away from the time a legislator could otherwise devote to local benefit-seeking . 
This is indeed what the data indicate , particularly in the case of the House . 
Finally , as shown in the table , Democrats allocate a higher proportion of their personal staffs to district offices -- where local benefit-seeking duties matter more and national policy making activities matter less relative to Washington offices . 
and national policy making activities matter less relative to Washington offices . 
An examination of changes in personal staffing decisions in the Senate between 1986 and 1987 -LRB- when control of that body changed party hands -RRB- , moreover , reveals that the personal staffing differences noted in the table can not be attributed to the disproportionate control Democrats exercise , due to their majority-party status , over other resources such as committee staff . 
when the prisoner 's dilemma is more severe . 
Moreover , ticket splitting appears to take the same peculiar pattern at the state government level as it does at the federal level . 
A cross-state econometric investigation , furthermore , reveals that , holding other factors constant , the difference between a state 's major-party vote going to the Republican gubernatorial candidate and the Republican share of the lower state house is a positive function of the state tax rate . 
In sum , at both the federal and state government levels at least part of the seemingly irrational behavior voters display in the voting booth may have an exceedingly rational explanation . 
, but beginning in fiscal 1991 , the government would be committed to meeting annual payments of as much as $ 500 million until the total liability of approximately $ 1.25 billion is paid . 
until the total liability of approximately $ 1.25 billion is paid . 
as Congress sent to President Bush a fiscal 1990 bill providing an estimated $ 156.7 billion for the Departments of Labor , Education , Health and Human Services . 
, but Mr. Bush has so far refused to support any specific exemption beyond instances in which the mother 's life is in danger . 
, but a vote to override his position could well pick up new support because of the wealth of health and education programs financed in the underlying bill . 
, and negotiators stripped a Senate-passed rider seeking to block the counting of illegal aliens . 
And in a footnote to the fall of House Speaker James Wright this year , the conference voted to rescind $ 11.8 million in unspent EDA funds for a Fort Worth , Texas , stockyards project that figured in ethics charges against the former Democratic leader . 
Fiscal pressures also forced the adoption of new fees charged by federal agencies , and an 18 % increase in the Securities and Exchange Commission 's budget would be financed entirely by an added $ 26 million in filing fees . 
, and an 18 % increase in the Securities and Exchange Commission 's budget would be financed entirely by an added $ 26 million in filing fees . 
But yesterday 's agreement would make it easier for state governments to handle the promised aid by deferring for one year a scheduled 50 % increase in the required state matching funds for law-enforcement grants . 
Similarly , the measure adjusts the current funding formula to promise smaller states such as New Hampshire and Delaware a minimum allocation of $ 1.6 million each in drug grants , or three times the current minimum . 
, and the assorted provisions attached by lawmakers run from $ 1.5 million for a fish farm in Arkansas to a music festival in Moscow under the United States Information Agency . 
, but Mr. Rudman also succeeded in attaching language seeking to curb the authority of the current board until new members are confirmed . 
, but Mr. Rudman also succeeded in attaching language seeking to curb the authority of the current board until new members are confirmed . 
until new members are confirmed . 
, and the bill seeks to reverse efforts by the corporation to cut off funds to service organizations such as the Food Research and Action Center . 
The bill also provides $ 620.5 million to meet U.S. contributions to international organizations and $ 80 million for peace-keeping activities . 
, although the amount for peace-keeping shows a 27 % cut from the administration 's request . 
Mercury also said it extended its two-year advisory relationship with Montgomery Securities of San Francisco . 
before I kill again . '' 
, but they need help to restrain their darker compulsions . 
after he 'd joined the Finance Committee 's early-morning pork-barrel revels : `` I must tell you ... 
, '' he said . 
. '' 
, even as we understand that he and his confreres need restraint lest they kill again . 
lest they kill again . 
because it would apply only to spending bills . 
Instead it 's a form of `` enhanced rescission , '' giving a President a chance to rescind , or strike , specific spending items that just go too far . 
, but then a President could veto that rejection . 
, but then a President could veto that rejection . 
Congress would then need the usual two-thirds majority to override any veto . 
, but Congress saw its chance against a weakened President Nixon and stripped it away . 
, but they 're meaningless unless Congress has a guilty conscience and changes its mind . 
unless Congress has a guilty conscience and changes its mind . 
, and naturally rescissions are almost never approved . 
, but only 3 % of the spending total was approved by Congress . 
unless Congress acts . 
, but the police -LRB- in the form of a President -RRB- would be there with a straitjacket if they really get crazy , as they do now . 
if they really get crazy , as they do now . 
, and at least 50 sitting Senators have voted to support enhanced rescission authority in the past . 
, but if he and his colleagues are serious about kicking their compulsions , they 'll sign up . 
. 
as congressional officials estimated that the price tag for emergency assistance to earthquake-ravaged California would total at least $ 2.5 billion . 
, and I underscore minimum , '' said House Speaker Thomas Foley -LRB- D. , Wash . -RRB- after conferring with California lawmakers . 
after conferring with California lawmakers . 
And California 's 45-member delegation in the House is expected to propose that emergency funds be added to a stop-gap spending bill that the House Appropriations Committee is to consider Monday . 
, but a Nob Hill hotel said tourists had fled , leaving the previously full hotel with an 80 % vacancy rate . 
, and foreign-exchange trading operations were shifted to Los Angeles , the bank said . 
, while 23 of 600 automated-teller machines remained out of order . 
, and subterranean water mains and service connections ruptured . 
so more money can be made available for the state . 
, and marble facings and ornamental plaster at the Beaux Arts City Hall broke off in the temblor . 
, and the company is braced for as many as 5,000 claims from its 35,000 residential and 35,000 business policyholders in the affected area . 
, '' a spokesman said . 
In addition , under the highway-relief program , the federal government provides 100 % of emergency highway aid for only the first 90 days of a repair effort . 
, and the state would have to pick up the remainder of the cost . 
But lawmakers want to extend the period for 100 % federal funding for several months . 
Those changes also would apply to two areas hit hard by Hurricane Hugo -- South Carolina and the U.S. Virgin Islands , according to an aide to Rep. Fazio . 
Meanwhile , the FEMA announced a toll-free telephone number -LRB- 800-462-9029 -RRB- to expedite service to victims of the earthquake . 
Moreover , state officials are urging freight haulers to bypass many of the area 's main highways and to travel late at night or during predawn hours . 
until the -LCB- World Series -RCB- is over . '' 
, but we ca n't imagine that it benefits the U.S. to become the catalyst for an all-too-familiar process that could end in another round of horror in Cambodia . 
. 
, and the Sandinistas were building one of the biggest armies in Latin America and threatening their neighbors . 
. 
, but the one good bet is that the non-communists would disappear . 
while building Cambodia 's equivalent of the Berlin Wall near the Thai border . 
The Khmer Rouge , however , carry an unsurpassed record for Cambodian tyranny . 
But there is no solid evidence that the Khmer Rouge have changed . 
So it 's difficult to swallow the notion that Mr. Baker is willing to accept conditions that would help the Khmer Rouge set up shop again in Phnom Penh . 
But Prince Sihanouk has backed all sorts of ideas over the years , and done rather better by himself than by Cambodia . 
Nor should the U.S. worry much about offending China , which still aids the Khmer Rouge . 
, and it will likely do it again . 
But now the possibility of `` diplomatic movement '' -LRB- Vietnam 's withdrawal , the Baker initiative -RRB- has put that plan on hold , with the proviso that if the going got rough , the U.S. would then rearm the opposition . 
. 
. 
that also has interests in book publishing , fine china , oil services and investment banking . 
Cipher Data said Mr. Marinaro consequently has resigned from those posts and from the company 's board . 
, and stockholders ' equity is $ 60.1 million . 
, Clinton said , and a specialist such as Clinton can save them substantial amounts of money . 
But , he continues , `` They 're forgetting we 're all Texans . 
. 
, and Lone Star is n't alone in trying to take advantage of that . 
. 
, but it has increased their legendary resentment of outsiders . 
only after passing a series of tests to prove they had the `` right '' Texas attitudes and `` of course they had to be dipped for parasites . '' 
and `` of course they had to be dipped for parasites . '' 
Lone Star 's Bond Corp. parent , for instance , hails from Perth , Australia . 
For example , the iced-tea radio campaign for Thomas J. Lipton Co. , an Englewood Cliffs , N.J. , unit of Anglo-Dutch Unilever Group , emphatically proclaims : `` Real Texans do not wear dock-siders -- ever . Real Texans do n't play paddleball , at least I hope not . This is football country . And another thing -- real Texans drink Lipton iced tea . '' 
And another thing -- real Texans drink Lipton iced tea . '' 
, but who cares as long as the campaigns work . 
as long as the campaigns work . 
And ad agencies insist that they do . 
after the debut of ad campaign that thumbs its nose at elite Easterners . 
And deposits at NCNB Texas National Bank , a unit of NCNB Corp. , Charlotte , N.C. , have increased $ 2 billion since last year after heavy advertising stressing commitment to Texas . 
after heavy advertising stressing commitment to Texas . 
. '' 
Meanwhile , surviving Texas banking institutions are busily pitching themselves as the only lenders who truly care about the state . 
, although it 's hard to tell from previews of the $ 5 million `` The I 's of Texas '' TV campaign . 
But in introductory material for the campaign , the trade group urges members to `` arm '' for a `` revolution '' against big , out-of-state bank-holding companies . 
`` So , do n't come and try to con us with a howdy y'all or a cowboy hat . '' 
Basketball star Michael Jordan and singer Randy Travis have also agreed to appear in ads . 
. 
-- but others apparently have been caused by Dell 's explosive growth and thinly stretched resources . 
Mr. Dell , meanwhile , concedes the company was `` definitely too optimistic '' in its expectations . 
Product delays , however , have left Dell buffeted by harsher competition in its bread-and-butter line of desktop computers , as powerhouse competitors Compaq Computer Corp. and International Business Machines Corp. price their PCs more aggressively . 
, as powerhouse competitors Compaq Computer Corp. and International Business Machines Corp. price their PCs more aggressively . 
But that has been the key to Compaq 's success , he adds , whereas Dell carved out its market niche as a direct seller of low-cost but reliable computers -- and it might be too late in the game for a shift in strategy . 
, he adds , whereas Dell carved out its market niche as a direct seller of low-cost but reliable computers -- and it might be too late in the game for a shift in strategy . 
-- and it might be too late in the game for a shift in strategy . 
Separately , the Houston concern said it signed letters of intent for the cash and stock purchases of a total of 29 well-servicing rigs from two concerns located in New Mexico and California . 
as growth in its oil-field services sector offset a decline in interest income . 
because Schlumberger spent $ 1.2 billion buying back its stock last year . 
But excluding businesses acquired or sold , revenue was flat at about $ 1.24 billion . 
, although it said that its first-half results are n't a good indication because of one-time elements and the seasonal nature of its operations . 
But real-estate experts and brokers said the quake undoubtedly will drag down prices in neighborhoods built on less stable ground , especially in the Bay Area . 
, but she said the two-tier price structure would affect prices `` for a while . '' 
But they said the quake will force some companies to relocate or expand part or all of their operations outside the state . 
One Southern California aerospace firm , for example , two months ago asked Location Management to compare the costs of reinforcing its current building against earthquakes with the cost of building a new structure elsewhere . 
because the trust has n't met certain terms . 
because the trust has n't met certain terms . 
and will make up the dividend payment later if possible . 
if possible . 
, and Western Forest , in a related transaction , bought back a 22 % interest in the company from Fletcher Challenge Canada Ltd . 
The Fletcher Challenge Canada stake was then canceled , Doman said , raising Doman 's interest in Western Forest to 56 % . 
Doman said it was also granted an option to acquire the remaining 44 % interest in Western Forest , which is currently held by two Canadian banks . 
because they are investor-owned . 
. 
, which range from $ 1.19 to $ 4.88 a share , when debt-reduction requirements have been met . 
while it tries to sell two units . 
after federal regulators declared the thrifts insolvent and named the RTC their receiver . 
, while the RTC tries to negotiate permanent resolutions . 
Separately , Century Bank , Phoenix , Ariz. , was closed by Arizona banking officials . 
The new institution is also called Century Bank , and the failed bank 's five offices will reopen today . 
, and the failed bank 's five offices will reopen today . 
It also will buy about $ 91.7 million of assets , and the FDIC will advance $ 31.8 million to the assuming bank . 
, and the FDIC will advance $ 31.8 million to the assuming bank . 
as Societe Commerciale , a trading company with activities in more than 40 countries , reported a loss of 320.5 million francs -LRB- $ 51 million -RRB- for the first six months of this year , partly because of provisions on future losses . 
But the partners did n't believe the market for the systems was developing as rapidly as they had hoped . 
. 
It also licenses optically based data storage and retrieval devices . 
, but that Pioneer approached Discovision earlier this year . 
when Pioneer buys the company . 
as the recent anxiety in world stock markets continued to fade . 
London shares also closed firmer in thin trading driven largely by technical factors and support from a new Wall Street rally . 
Prices also rose on almost every other major exchange in Europe , Asia and the Pacific . 
, but some institutions participated in the afternoon , encouraged by the market 's firmness , traders said . 
. 
. 
But traders said the market lacks a base on which to set long-term buying strategy , as the future direction of U.S. interest rates remains unclear . 
, as the future direction of U.S. interest rates remains unclear . 
as they are unable to shift their weight to one side for sure , '' Mr. Mitsuoka of Daiwa Investment Trust said . 
as investors quickly took profits and rotated their buying to other issues , traders said . 
, and Eisai advanced 60 to 2,360 . 
, and Sekisui House gained 100 to 2,490 . 
Leading construction companies also attracted interest for their strong earnings outlooks , traders said . 
, and Kumagai-Gumi advanced 40 to 1,490 . 
after advancing for three days . 
, and Nippon Steel slipped 6 to 729 . 
as investors grabbed profits . 
But despite the flurry of interest in those shares , dealers said , the market remains nervous about Wall Street 's volatility and high U.K. interest rates . 
before the European Community 's planned market unification in 
, and General Accident jumped 10 to # 10.13 . 
after its shareholders approved a plan to dispose of its U.S. and U.K. retailing operations to fend off Hoylake Investment 's # 13.4 billion -LRB- $ 21.33 billion -RRB- hostile bid . 
With the company also exercising a plan to buy back as many as 10 % of its shares outstanding , B.A.T closed at 783 , up 27 . 
Prices also closed higher in Singapore , Sydney , Taipei , Wellington , Hong Kong and Manila but were lower in Seoul . 
Marlin Fitzwater , White House press secretary , also asserted that Mr. Agnos had failed to return telephone calls from John Sununu , White House chief of staff . 
And one White House official reported that Mr. Agnos had been `` very helpful '' in making arrangements for Mr. Bush 's hastily scheduled trip to California . 
The suit , filed in federal court in Manhattan , also asks that the Comex 's nine-month suspension of Mr. Semel be lifted , pending the broker 's appeal of the disciplinary measures . 
. '' 
and their business will be totally and permanently destroyed . '' 
, the suit said , and it will have to liquidate additional assets in order to pay the rest . 
until `` further information has been disclosed by him . '' 
The company also said its 1990 annual meeting has not been scheduled . 
as a favorable inflation report prompted speculation of lower interest rates . 
, after rising over 60 points in mid-afternoon . 
, while gold declined . 
, but economists worried about a big rise in wholesale energy costs . 
Other tax breaks also are likely to be restored or created in the coming months as special interest groups try to undo the 1986 tax overhaul . 
as special interest groups try to undo the 1986 tax overhaul . 
if cash-strapped firms such as Campeau slash prices to spur sales . 
Also , profit rose 19 % in the third quarter . 
But Nynex , Pacific Telesis and U S West had lower profits . 
but an appeal by Sterling Software Inc. of Dallas sent the contract to the General Services Administration Board of Contract Appeals and the board required NASA to re-evaluate bidders ' proposals . 
and the board required NASA to re-evaluate bidders ' proposals . 
. 
Californians , meanwhile , tried to cope with still-limited services , blocked roadways and water shortages in the aftermath of the tremor that left scores dead and injured . 
, and officials in Washington estimated that emergency assistance would total at least $ 2.5 billion . 
. 
after the government conceded that investigators may have faked evidence . 
. 
, and activists threatened further rallies against leader Krenz 's expected hard-line policies . 
A leading U.S. human-rights monitor also was briefly held . 
, while five astronauts aboard the space shuttle Atlantis measured the Earth 's ozone layer . 
, seven years after the two nations battled over the Falkland Islands . 
, as the Soviet Union was reported to be airlifting arms and food to Kabul 's forces . 
Fighting also was reported around the strategic town of Khost , near the Pakistani border . 
as Lebanese negotiations on political changes appeared deadlocked . 
. 
But foreign-exchange dealers said the dollar staged a quick comeback , prompted by a round of short covering and some fresh buying interest later in the trading day . 
. 
Others suggested , however , that the Fed will hold any changes in monetary policy in check , leaving fed funds at around 8 3\/4 % , down from the 9 % level that prevailed from July through September . 
He argued that both CPI and PPI have in fact decelerated since spring . 
, while the corporation will sell its management interests in 32 of those properties . 
. 
In addition , the $ 3 billion bid includes $ 1 billion of debt that will be assumed by IMA , $ 600 million of high-yield junk bonds that will be sold by First Boston Corp. and $ 285 million of equity . 
unless they make firm offers . 
because they suspect the company 's glory days are past , or at least passing . 
, they say , and some of its diversifications are facing tough competition . 
while many companies would be happy with 15 % . 
But the tax-preparation business simply has no more room to grow , says Mark Cremonie , director of research for Capital Supervisors Inc. , a Chicago firm that manages $ 6.5 billion . 
U.S. and you 're going to see H&R Block tax services . '' 
before the 1986 tax `` reform '' made taxes more complex than ever . 
But Capital Supervisors sold the last of its H&R Block holdings earlier this year . 
before getting roughed up in the Friday-the-13th minicrash . 
, '' says Fredric E. Russell , a Tulsa , Okla. , money manager . 
But some money managers are doing just that . 
-LRB- the customer gets a refund immediately but pays extra to the tax preparer , which waits for Uncle Sam 's check -RRB- . 
But neither of those developments did much to juice up growth , Mr. Sit says . 
, '' Mr. Sit says , but it sure does n't justify Block shares being priced at 15 to 16 times estimated earnings for fiscal 1990 . 
and the earnings were so-so , '' said one . 
, '' he said , but its format is `` still too complicated . '' 
For example , he says , the company is planning to go nationwide with a new service , tested in parts of the country , aimed at taxpayers who want refunds in a hurry . 
, '' he says , `` but we 'd rather be prudent than make a mistake . '' 
He also says CompuServe 's earnings continue to grow `` 20 % to 30 % a year '' in spite of tough competition from giants like Sears and IBM . 
And he says Block 's other businesses are growing , although less consistently . 
So the men who ran the grain pits listened when Joseph Sullivan , a 35-year-old former Wall Street Journal newsman , offered them the idea of all-options trading . 
when Joseph Sullivan , a 35-year-old former Wall Street Journal newsman , offered them the idea of all-options trading . 
and the options exchange had run up volume of 1.1 million contracts . 
. 
while protected from creditors ' lawsuits . 
, but the new company reported third-period earnings for both companies . 
The coating segment also posted higher sales particularly in North America and Europe . 
But sale increases were offset by slumping sales in flat glass and fiberglass reinforcements , the company said . 
Also , chemicals sales were slightly down because of lower prices for vinyl chloride monomer and other chlorine derivatives . 
Jefferies , a Los Angeles holding company primarily engaged in securities trading , also said stock market declines since the quarter ended Sept. 30 created an unrealized pretax loss of about $ 6 million in its risk arbitrage account . 
and the $ 200 million offer for Guber-Peters expired Monday . 
In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission , Sony also said two more suits have been filed opposing the company 's agreement to buy Columbia . 
only after China 's own membership in the 97-nation organization is restored . 
, and the Communist government in Beijing applied for restoration of China 's membership in July 1986 . 
But the panel dismissed the magazine 's contention that it had n't libeled Mrs. Sutcliffe when it accused her of trying to sell her story to capitalize on the notoriety of her husband . 
when it accused her of trying to sell her story to capitalize on the notoriety of her husband . 
because it could n't afford the libel payment . 
but will also sell to interested parties . 
and Nissho Iwai has the rest . 
if it cuts back on the use of oil , coal and gas to cap emissions of carbon dioxide . 
if carbon-dioxide emissions remained at this year 's level of 300 million tons . 
unless the nation reduced its dependence on fossil fuels . 
But increased reliance on nuclear power would meet stiff opposition from environmentalists , a second ministry official said . 
, and overtime has been eliminated at the plant for the fourth quarter , a Chrysler spokesman said . 
But that 's less than Chrysler officials had hoped when they set ambitious production schedules for the Toledo plant earlier this year . 
when they set ambitious production schedules for the Toledo plant earlier this year . 
, '' the spokesman said . 
because Cherokee and Wagoneer are `` very profitable vehicles , '' the spokesman said . 
Instead , Chrysler officials in late May slapped $ 1,000 cash rebates on the vehicles , including the first such incentives on the popular four-door Cherokee since Chrysler bought Jeep in 1987 . 
, but the pace had cooled by last month . 
, '' he said . 
Separately , Chrysler said it will idle for four weeks the St. Louis assembly plant that builds the Chrysler LeBaron and Dodge Daytona models . 
20. , and 3,300 hourly workers will be affected . 
General Motors Corp. , meanwhile , said it will idle for yet another week its Linden , N.J. , assembly plant , bringing to three weeks the total time that plant will be idled during October . 
, but sales of the cars are off 9.6 % for the year , and fell a steep 34.2 % early this month . 
Meanwhile , the nine major U.S. auto makers plan to build 143,178 cars this week , down 11.7 % from 162,190 a year ago and flat with last week 's 142,117 car output . 
Loral also reported that its bookings more than doubled to $ 654 million in the quarter , ended Sept. 30 , from $ 257 million , in the year-before period . 
. 
The bank group also said that it wo n't make additional advances under the $ 150 million credit line . 
In addition , HealthVest said Bank of Tokyo Trust Co. also has notified it of a default and said it might take action to cure the default . 
In addition , HealthVest said Bank of Tokyo Trust Co. also has notified it of a default and said it might take action to cure the default . 
However , HealthVest said the Tokyo bank indicated that it wo n't accelerate HealthVest 's $ 50 million loan . 
because its affiliate , Healthcare International Inc. , has failed to make about $ 10.6 million in principal and interest payments owed since August . 
It also faces numerous other hurdles including an agreement on a pipeline route for the gas . 
It also said projections of surging U.S. demand for natural gas and price forecasts of C$ 5.25 per thousand cubic feet by 2005 would make the project economically viable . 
Shell , a subsidiary of Royal Dutch\/Shell Group , will be allowed to export 0.9 trillion cubic feet , and Gulf , a unit of Olympia & York Developments Ltd. will be allowed to export 3.2 trillion cubic feet . 
Combustion Engineering , which provides engineered products , systems and services for power generation , also sold Illinois Minerals Co. , based in Cairo , Ill . 
Inc. , and the assets of Elgin Electronics , Erie , Pa. , were sold to closely held Charter Technologies Inc . 
In 1900 , for instance , less than 8 % of assets went into bank deposits . That rose to nearly 18 % during the Depression , and has n't changed much since . 
Pension reserves , on the other hand , made up a relatively small part of household assets until the last decade , when they skyrocketed . 
And there has been a drastic decline in the importance of unincorporated business assets -- thanks to industry consolidation and a decline in family farms . 
But other figures are surprising . 
Housing , for instance , has remained a fairly steady component of household assets over the past decade -- although common wisdom would have expected an increase . 
-- although common wisdom would have expected an increase . 
`` But it has n't increased much relative to other assets . 
And housing though it appears in the popular mind as being the major -LCB- growing -RCB- household asset , is n't . '' 
. '' 
In addition , investors ' desire to hold stocks -- directly and through mutual funds -- has held surprisingly steady ; stocks ' importance among assets largely reflects the ups and downs of the stock market , and not a shift in stock-holding preferences . 
LIN , which has agreed with BellSouth Corp. to merge their cellular-telephone businesses , said then that it would n't take a position on McCaw 's revised tender offer . 
, unless LIN has an interest there or contiguous to it . 
if they unanimously decide it is n't in LIN 's best interest . 
. 
unless the independent directors request it , and the independent directors will run the bidding . 
, and the independent directors will run the bidding . 
Both MCA 's music-entertainment and book-publishing units also posted record revenue and operating profit . 
MCA said net also included certain reserves related to the restructuring of its LJN Toys ' international operations . 
But it all evens out , It 's so easy to see : Not till the last moment Am I paid what 's due me . 
, And that is why you only see him Reproduced in the museum . 
, sources say , but the division was n't considered significant enough to the company to be restructured , particularly at a difficult time for the firm . 
However , individuals close to the company insist shuttering the insurance division , a sideline from the company 's core property management business , is n't the beginning of a sale of assets . 
But inside the white walls of the Orange Workers ' office -- just about the largest building in town , save for the Dutch Reformed Church and the school -- South Africa 's neat racial order is awry . 
, and then wash the cups and saucers afterwards . 
, and then wash the cups and saucers afterwards . 
, then we must be willing to do all the work ourselves , '' says Hendrik Verwoerd Jr. , son of the former prime minister and the leader of the Orange Workers , founded in 1980 . 
They do indeed want their own nation . 
But here in Morgenzon , a sleepy town amid the corn fields of the eastern Transvaal , the Orange Workers are holding the pillars steady . 
Here , then , is where the Orange Workers have come to make apartheid 's last stand . 
And the fact that there are only 3,000 card-carrying Orange Workers may put them on the loony fringe . 
But their ideal of an Afrikaner homeland , an all-white reserve to be carved out of present-day South Africa , is a mainstream desire of the right-wing , which embraces about one-third of the country 's five million whites . 
Thus , farmer Johan Fischer , his T-shirt and jeans covered in grease , crawls around under his planter , tightening bolts and fixing dents . 
, and in their spare time they build townhouses across the road . 
, then hurry home to fix lunch for the rest of the family . 
. 
, says consulting engineer Willem van Heerden , whites should also build it by themselves . 
. 
, then these are two contradictions that ca n't go on forever , '' says Mr. Verwoerd . 
, but you also want to exclude the blacks from social and political integration , then these are two contradictions that ca n't go on forever , '' says Mr. Verwoerd . 
, but you also want to exclude the blacks from social and political integration , then these are two contradictions that ca n't go on forever , '' says Mr. Verwoerd . 
But my father meant it to mean real separation , '' says the son . 
Then , when Morgenzon was incorporated in 1908 , the farmer who owned the land stipulated that only whites could reside in town ; blacks could work there , but they had to leave at night . 
; blacks could work there , but they had to leave at night . 
, but they had to leave at night . 
, and many houses and storefronts are empty . 
Still , complete and total segregation remains elusive . 
and I thank God for them . '' 
. 
until they have to fight for their own nation , '' says Mr. Verwoerd . 
until there is a provision for black aspirations , '' says Mr. Verwoerd . 
`` Likewise , no government will stop this idea of the Afrikaners . '' 
. 
And they will even serve it themselves . 
But do n't do anything rash . 
, '' says Peter J. Canelo , chief market strategist for Bear , Stearns & Co. , and it 's `` unwise '' to be overcommitted to stocks . 
, but we do n't think it will be ugly . 
And even those who say some selective selling may be in order stress that individuals need to be in the stock market to achieve their long-term investment objectives and to help balance their other assets . 
, and that do n't have good earnings prospects , '' says Alfred Goldman , technical analyst at St. Louis-based A.G. Edwards & Sons . 
. 
But Mr. Clough says , `` The risk is that earnings disappointments will continue . '' 
, and `` right now it 's better to shoot first and ask questions later . '' 
and ask questions later . '' 
. '' 
as more and more banks tighten their lending requirements , he says . 
Moreover , many financial advisers say individuals should be in the stock market as long-term investors , not as traders trying to catch the next hot stock . In general , they say , avoid takeover stocks . 
, '' he says . 
`` But do n't pay 30 times earnings for a company that 's expected to grow at 15 % a year . '' 
if the earnings are n't there . '' 
, '' he says . 
if there has been a fundamental change in a company since they bought its stock . 
since they bought its stock . 
Similarly , he says , suppose you were attracted to a company because of expectations that sales would hit $ 200 million by 1990 . If things have n't worked out that well , and sales wo n't hit $ 200 million until 1992 , it 's time to consider selling , he says . 
, he says . 
, and sales wo n't hit $ 200 million until 1992 , it 's time to consider selling , he says . 
until Mr. Williams has studied it , the spokesman said . 
In addition , Michael W. O'Donnell , executive vice president of a Columbia unit , was named assistant chief financial officer and a senior vice president of the parent company . 
, as its rocket-like recovery from nearly ruinous losses several years ago continued to be fueled by growth in consumer loans , higher interest margins and negligible loan losses . 
Automated teller machine operations also were up and operating yesterday , a bank spokesman said . 
, but the decline from the second quarter was attributable to special factors . 
But that drop was caused entirely by a decline in Brazilian interest paid , to $ 5 million from $ 54 million the second quarter . 
Moreover , BankAmerica continued to build its reserve against troubled foreign loans by boosting its loan-loss provision to $ 170 million , about the same as the previous quarter but well above the $ 100 million in the year-earlier quarter . 
As a result , BankAmerica said its reserve against troubled foreign-country loans , once below 25 % , now amounts to 45 % of the $ 6.4 billion of non-trade debt it calculates it is owed by those nations . 
By any measure , third-quarter earnings were still robust , equivalent to a 0.92 % return on assets even excluding tax credits . 
But it continued to badly trail its San Francisco neighbor , Wells Fargo & Co. , which reported an extraordinary 1.25 % return on assets . 
As a result , if a problem develops on a production line , it is unlikely some supervisor sitting in front of a personal computer or workstation will know about it or be able to correct it . 
. 
So IBM will be announcing more than 50 products that will be aimed at letting even the dumbest machine tool talk to the smartest mainframe , or anything in between . 
In an unusual display of openness , IBM also will be helping customers tie together operations that include lots of equipment made by IBM 's competitors . 
In addition , the executives said IBM will be offering programming tools designed to let anyone working on a factory floor write ad-hoc software , for instance , to do statistical analysis that would pinpoint a problem on a manufacturing line . 
So it will take many quarters for IBM to roll out all the products that customers need , and it will take years for customers to integrate the products into their operations . 
, and it will take years for customers to integrate the products into their operations . 
Also as usual , the products will appeal mostly to heavy users of IBM equipment , at least initially . 
Still , consultants and industry executives said the products could help make manufacturing operations more efficient , and provide a boost to the computer-integrated-manufacturing market -- a market that Yankee Group , a research firm , has said may double to $ 40 billion by 1993 . 
He added , though , that `` a lot of this is intentions ... . 
The announcements also should help IBM go on the offensive against Digital Equipment Corp. on the plant floor . 
. 
Hewlett-Packard Co. also has begun to gain share in the whole computer-integrated-manufacturing arena . 
In addition , Hewlett-Packard , while a much smaller player , has made a big commitment to the sorts of industry standards that facilitate those hookups and could give IBM some problems . 
. 
, and Hewlett-Packard gets 50 % . 
because many companies will standardize on certain types of equipment as the various parts of the manufacturing market merge , and IBM is the biggest player . 
as the various parts of the manufacturing market merge , and IBM is the biggest player . 
, and IBM is the biggest player . 
But much will depend on how quickly IBM can move . 
after losing a little luster over the past couple of years when it became apparent that it was n't a panacea that would make U.S. plants more efficient and banish foreign competition . 
-- someone on the shop floor may not like having someone in an office using a personal computer to look over his shoulder , for instance , and may be able to prevent that from happening . 
But he said a system such as IBM 's should help significantly . 
In making polyethylene sheets out of plastic chips , for instance , a chip sometimes does n't melt , gets caught in the machinery and creates a run in the sheets . That can be expensive , because the problem may not be noticed for a while , and the sheets are typically thrown away . But Mr. Keller said that , if computers can be integrated into the process , they could alert an operator as soon as the problem occurred . 
, because the problem may not be noticed for a while , and the sheets are typically thrown away . 
, and the sheets are typically thrown away . 
But Mr. Keller said that , if computers can be integrated into the process , they could alert an operator as soon as the problem occurred . 
. 
as soon as the problem occurred . 
They could also check through the orders on file to find a customer that was willing to accept a lower grade of polyethylene . 
just until that order was filled , eliminating waste . 
Companies might be able to tell salespeople daily , for instance , about idle equipment , so they could offer discounts on whatever that equipment produces . 
, so they could offer discounts on whatever that equipment produces . 
Salespeople also could get a precise reading on when products could be delivered -- in much the same way that Federal Express has marketed its ability to tell exactly where a package is in the delivery system . 
29 years and 11 months to the day after Henry Ford II declared that the Edsel division and its gawky car would be scrapped -- kills the four-year-old Merkur brand in the U.S. market . 
, because Merkur was a relatively low-budget project with limited sales goals . 
Still , Merkur 's demise is a setback for Ford at a time when the company 's image as the U.S. auto maker with the golden touch is showing signs of strain . 
, and Ford 's trucks are losing ground to their GM rivals . 
But the brand had trouble from the start . 
in part because American buyers did n't go for the car 's unusual double-wing rear spoiler . 
, and in 1988 they reached that goal , as sales hit 15,261 cars . 
, as sales hit 15,261 cars . 
It was downhill from there , however . 
. 
The Merkur cars also suffered from spotty quality , some dealers say . 
But by the third quarter of 1988 , Scorpios had a high satisfaction rating in internal Ford studies , a spokesman said . 
Apparently , however , the improvement came too late . 
Ford said then it would keep the Scorpio . 
, and at the current sales pace it would take Ford 242 days to sell off the current Scorpio inventory of about 4,600 cars . 
, after failing to find a buyer for its majority stake earlier this year . 
and the two companies operate a very successful Chicago-Montreal rail service . 
Separately , for the first nine months , Soo Line reported a loss of $ 398,000 , or four cents a share , compared with net income of $ 12.5 million , or $ 1.32 a share , a year earlier . 
Separately , the casino operator said its board approved a plan to buy-back as many as three million common shares from time to time , either in the open market or through private transactions . 
, but that `` nothing is at a mature stage . '' 
because contemplating outside business ventures can distract an executive from performing his best `` at the job he is paid to do . '' 
Martin H. Ruby , a managing director of Capital Holding 's Accumulation and Investment Group , also resigned to pursue other business interests , Capital Holding said . 
and that he has `` a number of ventures in the financial-services area '' under consideration . 
, but that he was n't actually asked to resign . 
It also sells single-premium annuities to individuals . 
But few knew it then and most still think all pencils are wooden . 
and most still think all pencils are wooden . 
But it was n't until after it hired Arthur D. Little , a Cambridge , Mass. , research concern , that its new product was refined for commercial sale in 1973 . 
while a plastic model will break cleanly . 
, and most writers still do n't know what they 're using . 
while another large California savings and loan , Great Western Financial Corp. , reported a slight earnings gain . 
as loan portfolio yields rose and money costs declined , the company said . 
and money costs declined , the company said . 
But a reduction in one-time gains on the sale of various assets and an increase in the company 's provision for loan losses held down the earnings gain , the company said . 
But revenue declined more than 2 % , reflecting in part a continuing drop in sales of credit services in the wake of controversy over the company 's sales practices . 
, but several added that the earnings masked underlying weaknesses in several businesses . 
For example , he noted , operating profit was weaker than he had anticipated , but nonoperating earnings of $ 14.6 million and a lower tax rate helped boost net income . 
, but nonoperating earnings of $ 14.6 million and a lower tax rate helped boost net income . 
Dun & Bradstreet noted that price competition in its Nielsen Marketing Research , Nielsen Clearing House and Donnelley Marketing businesses also restrained revenue growth . 
, but details were n't disclosed . 
or what would be the optimum number of seats to offer at a given price . 
, but a task force will have to prepare a detailed plan before the company can predict the current cost . 
, but a task force will have to prepare a detailed plan before the company can predict the current cost . 
before the company can predict the current cost . 
The time schedule for installing the equipment also will be developed by the task force , the company said . 
Sir Richard is also a non-executive director at National Westminister Bank and NatWest Investment Bank Ltd . 
, but when it came back up , it teemed with emotional first-hand reports . 
. 
, and the initials or nicknames are those subscribers use to identify themselves . 
, and except for my heart -LRB- Beat , BEAT ! -RRB- I 'm OK . 
, and everything had fallen : broken poster frames with glass on the floor , file cabinets open or dumped onto the floor . 
and we both mouthed the words , `` Earth-quake ! '' together . 
and then the building started shaking violently up and down as though it were a child 's toy block that was being tossed . 
and then the building started shaking violently up and down as though it were a child 's toy block that was being tossed . 
as though it were a child 's toy block that was being tossed . 
when it hit . 
Then the auto paint shop fire sent an evil-looking cloud of black smoke into the air . 
and it kept getting stronger . 
, although nervous . 
when it hit . 
Many hairline cracks in the concrete slabs afterwards . 
, because my house is on stilts . 
as I passed the Chevron refinery before crossing the Richmond-San Rafael Bridge . 
before crossing the Richmond-San Rafael Bridge . 
I could also see the clouds across the bay from the horrible fire in the Marina District of San Francisco . 
and my hands are still shaking . 
, so an old lady and her very old mother are in the guest room . 
, and the mouse that 's been living in my kitchen has taken refuge under my desk . 
when the quake rolled through town . 
Then as things got rougher , we ran for the door and spent the next few minutes outside watching the brick sidewalk under our feet oozing up and down , and the flowers waving in an eerie rhythm . 
and spent the next few minutes outside watching the brick sidewalk under our feet oozing up and down , and the flowers waving in an eerie rhythm . 
, but there was this surreal low level of confusion as the aftershocks continued . 
as the aftershocks continued . 
, and UCSF -LCB- medical center -RCB- seems to have quieted down for the night -LRB- they were doing triage out in the parking lot from the sound and lights of it -RRB- . 
when the quake hit . 
as people realize how hard life is going to be here for a while . 
, as if someone were walking on the roof , or upstairs . 
Then I noticed the car was bouncing up and down as if someone were jumping on it . 
as if someone were jumping on it . 
, and I scooted them into the dog run and stood in the doorway myself , watching the outside trash cans dance across the concrete . 
, waiting and praying for Merrill to come home , shivering as if it were 20 below zero until he got there . 
as if it were 20 below zero until he got there . 
until he got there . 
. 
, and the building started shaking like crazy . 
, and it was really rocking around . 
, and then when it kept on coming we lunged for the doorway . 
, and then when it kept on coming we lunged for the doorway . 
. 
when the lawn started rolling like ocean waves . 
, but the next tremor threw me in the air and bounced me as I tried to get to my feet . 
as I tried to get to my feet . 
, although Mame was extremely freaked . 
, but the structure is fine . 
! 
'' and then the woman smiled , said , `` Is n't it great just to be alive ? '' 
'' and then the woman smiled , said , `` Is n't it great just to be alive ? '' 
But the performance exceeded some estimates of around $ 1.90 a share . 
Another reason : strikes , both at Georgia-Pacific and other lumber companies also cut supplies and raised prices , analysts said . 
if it passed Congress . 
and that it did n't contain a veto threat . 
because they thought the Transportation Department favored it . 
because we thought it would help Skinner , '' one Republican said , `` and now we 're out there dangling in the wind . '' 
, '' one Republican said , `` and now we 're out there dangling in the wind . '' 
'' if he had authority to block buy-outs in advance . 
But he never took an official position on the bill and has steadfastly maintained that he already has enough authority to deal with buy-outs . 
if needed , to review any proposed purchase of 15 % or more of a major U.S. airline 's voting stock . 
if he concluded that it would so weaken an airline financially that it would hurt safety or reduce the carrier 's ability to compete , or if it gave control to a foreign interest . 
, or if it gave control to a foreign interest . 
if he concluded that it would so weaken an airline financially that it would hurt safety or reduce the carrier 's ability to compete , or if it gave control to a foreign interest . 
. 
But Mr. Skinner disagreed , calling the legislation `` a retreat from the policy of deregulaton of the airline industry . '' 
In his letter to Committee Chairman Glenn Anderson -LRB- D. , Calif. -RRB- , the secretary also said the bill `` would be at odds with the administration 's policies welcoming open foreign investment and market allocation of resources . '' 
However , if the secretary concludes that a transaction has made a carrier unfit to operate , the department may revoke its certificate , grounding the airline . 
, grounding the airline . 
But supporters argue that grounding an airline is so drastic that the department would hesitate doing it . 
It also voted down proposals to give the secretary much more discretion on whether to block a buy-out and to require the department to consider the impact of a buy-out on workers . 
after initial fears evaporated that the California earthquake would depress Wall Street prices . 
, but most other Asian and Pacific markets closed sharply lower . 
after dealers reappraised the direct impact of the disaster on shares and Wall Street rebounded from early losses . 
and Wall Street rebounded from early losses . 
But technical factors , including modest gains in the value of the pound , helped draw buying back into the market and reverse losses posted a day earlier . 
, and Royal Insurance jumped 12 to 450 . 
, although Prudential fell 2 to 184 1\/2 . 
, and Sun Life finished unchanged at # 10.98 . 
, although National Westminister showed strength on positive comments from brokerage firms about its long-term prospects . 
, but dealers said the shares fell initially on questions about whether Mr. Goldsmith 's highly leveraged bid will come to fruition . 
S.G. Warburg , also mentioned in the rumor mill , jumped 14 at to 414 . 
as traders contemplated a potential battle between General Motors and Ford Motor for control of the U.K. luxury auto maker . 
Institutions , meanwhile , stepped back to the sidelines as the direction of U.S. interest rates remained unclear . 
as the direction of U.S. interest rates remained unclear . 
, as investors will rotate their buying choices over the short term . 
, so substantial gains are n't likely unless institutional investors participate . 
unless institutional investors participate . 
, and Ajinomoto gained 70 to 2,840 . 
But unlike the Tokyo exchange , they failed to extend the rise to a second session . 
before the start of Monday 's session . 
, after the central bank began to relax its clamp on credit , allowing interest rates to drop a bit after pushing them up for a year . 
after pushing them up for a year . 
But last month new construction in all types of homes waned , from single-family houses to large apartment complexes . 
since they began edging down after a peak in March . 
, but they inched down again through September . 
after rising 3.7 % in August . 
The housing starts numbers , however , are one of the least precise of the government 's economic indicators and are often revised significantly as more information is collected . 
as more information is collected . 
, but net income would have dropped from the second quarter without a $ 37 million after-tax gain . 
But industrywide trading activity slowed in September as institutional investors turned cautious and individuals continued to shy away from the market . 
as institutional investors turned cautious and individuals continued to shy away from the market . 
and individuals continued to shy away from the market . 
But Pfizer Inc. , based in New York , reported flat earnings . 
as American Home Products Corp. of New York posted an 11 % increase in net . 
Net also was aided by a gain on the sale of the company 's equity interests in South Africa effective Sept. 1 . 
, and sales by the agriculture segment declined 5 % . 
and sales of hospital products increased 1 % . 
because the gain on the sale of the European cosmetics businesses was offset by provisions relating to the Brazil divestiture and drug restructuring . 
Significantly lower sales of ` Stay Trim ' diet aids also were a factor in the drop . 
Charlestonians are instead indomitable and have contributed mightily to the culture and history of our country for more than 300 years . 
Inc. and Central is a unit of First Bank System of Minneapolis . 
But even in that short time Mr. Guzman Cabrera has become as controversial in his own way as his deposed predecessor , Joaquin Hernandez Galicia , known as La Quina . 
And with the quiet pragmatism of Mr. Guzman Cabrera replacing the prickly populism of La Quina , government technocrats have been given a free hand to open the petrochemical sector to wider private and foreign investment . 
. 
. 
, if there is one , '' he says , greeting a visitor to his office . 
before being pushed into retirement by La Quina after a dispute two years ago . 
. 
Though he also long benefited from the system built by La Quina , Mr. Guzman Cabrera says union perks had simply gotten out of hand . 
Thus , in recent contract negotiations , Mr. Guzman Cabrera gave up the union 's right to assign 40 % of all of Pemex 's outside contracts -- an enormous source of kickbacks . 
The union also ceded the 2 % commission it had received on all Pemex maintenance contracts . 
The new contract also eliminates the $ 15 monthly coupon , good only at union-owned grocery stores , that was part of the salary of every worker , from roughneck to chief executive . 
Also , because of its reduced capital budget , Pemex has phased out about 50,000 transitory construction workers , reducing the work force to about 140,000 , the union leader says . 
But Pemex managers are the ones most thrilled by the contract . 
, but one previous government estimate pegged savings at around $ 500 million a year . 
Pemex 's customers also are pleased with the company 's new spirit . 
But when the Pemex plant shut down for an annual overhaul , it would never give notice to its customers . 
. 
Later , the government reclassified several basic petrochemicals as secondary products . 
But Pemex 's courtship with private companies , and especially foreign ones , is controversial in a country where oil has been a symbol of national sovereignty since foreign oil holdings were nationalized in 1938 . 
since foreign oil holdings were nationalized in 1938 . 
But the new union leader makes no apologies for Pemex 's more outward-looking attitude . 
, '' he says . 
as work and family pressures mount . 
, especially if work problems threaten a top manager 's job . 
And the vice president of a large Midwestern company realized that an abrasive temperament threatened his career when his wife confided that similar behavior at home harmed their marriage . 
when his wife confided that similar behavior at home harmed their marriage . 
More dual-career couples also are getting help , with men increasingly bringing their working wives for joint counseling . 
if you do n't have time to talk , to have fun and to be sexual , '' says Ms. Shaevitz . 
, while only 8 % of American workers do . 
And the Japanese make far more suggestions -- 2,472 per 100 eligible employees vs. only 13 per 100 employees in the 
Data for 1987 from the National Association of Suggestion Systems and the Japan Human Relations Association also indicate that Japanese employers adopt four of five suggestions , while their U.S. counterparts accept just one in four . 
, while their U.S. counterparts accept just one in four . 
, while Japan 's payment is $ 3.23 . 
Still , suggestions ' net savings per 100 employees is $ 274,475 in Japan vs. $ 24,891 in the U.S. . 
because it favors the team-management focus . 
, '' says Lewis Shealy , vice president for loss prevention at Marshall Field 's , the department store chain . 
as many angry employees `` felt abandoned by the former owners , '' says the University of Florida sociologist . 
But top management should watch for other tell-tale signs of employee misdeeds , like expense-account fudging and phone misuse . 
Mr. Dalton also recommends that the chief executive establish a rumor control center and move swiftly to bolster morale . 
And security authority Robert L. Duston favors disciplining all employees who cheat . 
And half the employees surveyed think companies dole out too little to them . 
But both see a common enemy : About 66 % of employees and 73 % of investors think senior managers get too big a slice of the profit pie . 
The company also said the transaction would bolster after-tax earnings by $ 3.25 a share when completed and boost its primary capital ratio to 7 % from 6.63 % . 
when completed and boost its primary capital ratio to 7 % from 6.63 % . 
as concern deepened among takeover stock traders about the length of time it will take to revive the purchase . 
, and British Air was to receive a 15 % stake . 
when Citicorp and Chase Manhattan Corp. unexpectedly failed to obtain bank financing . 
. 
, and all aspects of a revised version are up for change , in light of the changes in UAL 's market price , the amount of debt banks are willing to fund , and the price British Air would be willing to pay . 
, '' and that British Air 's contribution `` was quite a large chunk for us . '' 
, '' he said . 
but still having 15 % , that would be a point in our favor , '' he said . 
if they become impatient . 
Meanwhile , the buy-out group 's task of holding its fragile coalition together , in the face of the bid 's collapse and internal opposition from two other employee groups , has been further complicated by an apparent rift in the ranks of the pilot union itself . 
because it would cause them to lose their seniority . 
, '' the Institute of Medicine , an affiliate of the National Academy of Sciences , concluded after a two-year study . 
. 
as federal research on the effectiveness of medical treatments helps lead to medical practice guidelines . 
Howard Bailit , a panel member and a vice president of Aetna Life & Casualty , said that utilization management will also do a better job of containing costs as it spreads to cover medical services delivered outside of hospitals . 
as it spreads to cover medical services delivered outside of hospitals . 
But at the same time , spending on physician services and ambulatory care have mushroomed . 
, but he agreed that for the health-care system as whole , some of these savings are offset by administrative and outpatient care costs . 
Dr. Grossman , who also is president of New England Medical Center Hospitals in Boston , noted that the hospitals he runs deal with more than 100 utilization management firms and that many of them have different procedures and requirements . 
and that many of them have different procedures and requirements . 
when they begin production toward the middle of the 1990s . 
In addition , the companies will each spend about FFr 1 billion on tooling up their plants . 
, since both companies would in any case have had to renew their existing ranges of light goods vehicles . 
, and Renault and DAF are aiming for a combined market share of about 11 % . 
Under a separate arrangement , British Aerospace PLC 's Rover Group PLC subsidiary will also be able to offer the vehicles through its dealers in the U.K. , and Renault 's truck-building subsidiary Renault Vehicles Industriels will have similar rights in France . 
U.K. , and Renault 's truck-building subsidiary Renault Vehicles Industriels will have similar rights in France . 
and still has authority over one of the most powerful of government 's instruments -- the control of the money supply . 
Thus we have a condition that is easily described as undemocratic . 
just as the party is getting interesting . 
So the Federal Reserve is an attractive target for complaint by politicians . 
, while the politicians can escape responsibility by pointing to the Fed 's independence . 
But these proposals do not rest on a view of what the Fed 's problem is or , if they do , they rest on an incorrect view . 
or , if they do , they rest on an incorrect view . 
. 
On the contrary , it is too responsive to an incorrect view of the public interest . 
Or , a wage that was $ 100 30 years ago would buy only $ 23.53 worth of stuff today . 
And that increase in the money supply would not have happened without the consent of the Federal Reserve . 
. 
, if they had any effect at all . 
Moreover , he is a political agent of a political president , who naturally gives extraordinary weight to the way the economy will perform before the next election , and less to its longer-run health . 
Or would he interpret it as instruction to give more weight to these other objectives that the secretary represents -- low interest rates , short-run economic expansion , and stabilization of exchange rates at internationally managed levels ? 
if it were more solicitous of the independence of the rest of the government . -RRB- 
But Congress and the president accept no responsibility for the exercise of the power they have given the Fed . 
It also prevents the conduct of a policy that has a long-term rationale , because it leaves the Fed guessing about what are the expectations of its masters , the politicians , who have never had to consider the long-term consequences of monetary policy . 
, because it leaves the Fed guessing about what are the expectations of its masters , the politicians , who have never had to consider the long-term consequences of monetary policy . 
It is not the kind of thing that is likely to be enacted , however . 
, and Congress would much prefer to leave the hard decision to the Fed and retain its rights of complaint after the fact . 
But that is not the same as saying that the Federal Reserve has other objectives . 
But it has only the Fed to pursue price-level stability . 
And the Fed has at most very limited ability to contribute to the achievement of other objectives by means other than by stabilizing the price level . 
But the main lesson of economic policy in the past 30 years is that if the Fed compromises with the price-stability objective in the pursuit of these other goals , the result is not high employment and rapid growth but is inflation . 
. 
and posting a $ 155.4 million third-quarter net loss as a result . 
, but the war over the nation 's most-contentious social question is about to pick up again on turf that favors those seeking to restrict abortions . 
, with easy approval by the Senate and by Democratic Gov. Bob Casey expected shortly thereafter . 
before their daughters under the age of 18 can have abortions will probably pass both houses of the Michigan legislature and set up a grinding battle to override the expected veto of Democratic Gov. James Blanchard . 
The action in Pennsylvania , for example , will follow last week 's collapse of a special session of the Florida legislature to enact restrictions on abortions in that state , and the vote here in Washington by the House to permit federally paid abortions for poor women who are victims of rape or incest . 
But President Bush is expected to veto the congressional legislation and that , along with the easy approval of the Pennsylvania measure , is likely to mute the abortion-rights activists ' claims of momentum and underline the challenges faced by this resurgent movement . 
and that , along with the easy approval of the Pennsylvania measure , is likely to mute the abortion-rights activists ' claims of momentum and underline the challenges faced by this resurgent movement . 
`` But how many more times we 're going to feel good in the next 15 is another question . '' 
Indeed , abortion-rights activists still face their greatest tests . 
`` But it still has n't shown that it can win in a state like Pennsylvania or Missouri , where abortion has been clearly an electoral issue and where it 's been an emotional issue for a long time . '' 
and where it 's been an emotional issue for a long time . '' 
As a result , GOP state Rep. Stephen Freind of Delaware County , the legislature 's leading foe of abortion , has been given all but free rein to press a strict seven-point plan to restrict abortion and , he hopes , to force the Supreme Court directly to reassess its 1973 Roe v. Wade decision that established the right of abortion in the first place . 
and the full Pennsylvania House is expected to take up the bill next Tuesday -- includes a provision to ban abortions after 24 weeks of pregnancy , except to avert the death of the mother . 
, except to avert the death of the mother . 
But the Pennsylvania measure also includes an `` informed consent '' provision that may become widely imitated by abortion foes who want to make women contemplating abortion as uncomfortable as possible with the procedure and with themselves . 
But the Pennsylvania measure also includes an `` informed consent '' provision that may become widely imitated by abortion foes who want to make women contemplating abortion as uncomfortable as possible with the procedure and with themselves . 
before she makes a decision which , one way or the other , might remain with her for the rest of her life . '' 
But proponents believe they may be able to shake enough votes loose to override the veto if they are successful in portraying the legislation as a matter of parents ' rights . 
if they are successful in portraying the legislation as a matter of parents ' rights . 
. 
, but anti-abortionists still may succeed in bringing the measure to the floor this fall . 
, but anti-abortionists still may succeed in bringing the measure to the floor this fall . 
if it comes to a floor vote . 
Abortion foes in Wisconsin , meanwhile , expect a parental-consent bill to be sent to the state assembly floor by early November and are hopeful of prevailing in both houses by next March . 
and the legislators just do n't want to do anything about this now . '' 
as both sides are undertaking new mobilization efforts , plunging into gubernatorial races in Virginia and New Jersey , and girding for next autumn 's state elections . 
if they continue to insist on calling themselves ` pro-choice ' rather than ` pro-abortion , ' '' says Mary Spaulding , the group 's associate state legislative coordinator . 
. 
and that the rest are being sold by certain stockholders . 
, and the swift passage contrasted with months of negotiations over the underlying bill which is laced with special-interest provisions for both members and the executive branch . 
And Southwest lawmakers were a driving force behind $ 54.6 million for U.S.-Mexico border facilities , or more than double the administration 's request . 
, and the budget for the official residence of Vice President Quayle is more than doubled , with $ 200,000 designated for improvements to the property . 
, and Congress specifically added $ 7.4 million for stepped up criminal investigations of money laundering related to drug traffic . 
Investigation and taxpayer service accounts would grow to $ 1.6 billion , and Congress specifically added $ 7.4 million for stepped up criminal investigations of money laundering related to drug traffic . 
The large increase in Customs Service air-interdiction funds is also intended to counter smuggling , and the annual appropriations level has more than quadrupled in five years . 
, and the annual appropriations level has more than quadrupled in five years . 
, but the Treasury Department bill has been used as a vehicle to raise the profile of the issue and block any action in the interim . 
, but final settlement has been stalled because of differences between the two men over the fate of a modest Arkansas-based program to provide technical information to farmers seeking to reduce their dependence on chemical fertilizers and pesticides . 
, but Mr. Whitten has been adamant in insisting that the program be cut in 1990 . 
, but as a master of pork-barrel politics , he is believed to be annoyed as well that the project moved to Arkansas from a Tennessee center near Memphis and the northern Mississippi border . 
, analysts and several big institutional holders said . 
But this week , B.A.T has been hit harder than other big U.K. stocks -- first by the market gyrations , then by Tuesday 's San Francisco earthquake , which could leave B.A.T 's Farmers Group Inc. insurance unit facing big claims . 
as a late market rally erased a 28-pence fall earlier in the day . 
But B.A.T 's restructuring , which was never going to happen quickly , now will take longer because of the market upheaval . 
. 
and if market conditions are truly awful we might decide it is not the right time , '' to take particular steps , said Michael Prideaux , a B.A.T spokesman . 
, said Michael Prideaux , a B.A.T spokesman . 
, say shareholders and analysts , though the situation may unfold over the next 12 months , rather than six . 
, say shareholders and analysts , though the situation may unfold over the next 12 months , rather than six . 
Thus B.A.T 's restructuring may only make the company a more manageable target for other corporate predators -- possibly such acquisitive bidders as Hanson PLC . 
`` But I would n't write off '' Sir James or other potential bidders . 
because the units `` are quality businesses and we are encouraged by the breadth of inquiries , '' said Mr. Prideaux . 
and we are encouraged by the breadth of inquiries , '' said Mr. Prideaux . 
But the delay could happen if B.A.T does n't get adequate bids , he said . 
if B.A.T does n't get adequate bids , he said . 
. 
once approval from U.S. insurance regulators is received , jitters over prospects for junk-bond financing and U.S. leverage buy-outs are making investors more skeptical about Sir James 's prospects . 
Market uncertainty also clouds the outlook for B.A.T 's attracting a premium price for its U.S. retailing properties . 
Finally , Tuesday 's California earthquake initially knocked 3.7 % off B.A.T 's share price in London yesterday because of fears of the potential claims to Los Angeles-based Farmers , which has a substantial portion of its property and casualty exposure in California . 
But rail , air and ocean-shipping links to the area escaped Tuesday 's earthquake with only minor damage , and many are expected to be operating normally today , government and corporate transport officials said . 
, and many are expected to be operating normally today , government and corporate transport officials said . 
, but airport officals said they expect a return to full operations by Saturday . 
Getting to and from the airport in coming weeks may be the problem , however . 
, but the list of closings changes about every 20 minutes . 
and now we are informed that it is closed , '' Mr. Schumacher said . 
. 
The spokesman noted four-hour to five-hour traffic delays on the San Mateo bridge , for example . 
In addition , power failures prevented its package-sorting facilities from operating , causing delays . 
But freight railroads reported that damage to their facilities was relatively minor , with Santa Fe Pacific Corp. 's rail unit the least affected by the quake . 
while its officials inspected track but resumed service at 10:45 p.m. when they found no damage . 
But service on the line is expected to resume by noon today . 
He added that San Francisco 's trolley cars and trolley buses were also running at full service levels . 
. 
Terminals at San Francisco International also were damaged , but the tower itself was intact . 
, but the tower itself was intact . 
, but traffic was being limited yesterday to 27 arrivals and 27 departures an hour -- down from 33 to 45 an hour normally -- mainly because the noise level in the control tower was overwhelming without the windows , an FAA spokeswoman said . 
-- mainly because the noise level in the control tower was overwhelming without the windows , an FAA spokeswoman said . 
. 
, which in turn was causing delays for travelers headed to the Bay area . 
when a sprinkler system was triggered by the tremors . 
; in fact , as the airport was being evacuated Tuesday night , two babies were born . 
. 
, but the airline said demand for seats into the city also was active , with people trying to get there to help family and friends . 
, but the airline said demand for seats into the city also was active , with people trying to get there to help family and friends . 
, but getting information about its operations was difficult . 
Analysts expect the spirits operations and some California vineyards that also are being sold to fetch about # 500 million -LRB- $ 788.8 million -RRB- . 
Also for sale are Buckingham Wile Co. , which distributes Cutty Sark blended whiskey in the U.S. , and Whitbread 's Atlas Peak Vineyards in California 's Napa Valley . 
But Whitbread has been squeezed by giant rivals amid widespread consolidation in the industry . 
... and naturally we 'll be considering it carefully , '' a Grand Met spokesman said . 
Two other global liquor giants , Canada 's Seagram Co. and Britain 's Allied-Lyons PLC , also are possible buyers . 
, but the company does n't own any of the major gin brands imported in the U.S. . 
. 
Smaller liquor companies , such as Brown-Forman Corp. and American Brands Inc. of the U.S. , also are likely to be interested . 
Brown-Forman , a Louisville , Ky. distiller , also declined to comment . 
But analysts estimate their trading profit at # 30 million . 
, which in turn sell only the breweries ' beer and soft drinks . 
Whitbread also owns the license to brew and distribute Heineken and Stella Artois beers in Britain . 
In addition , Whitbread intends to focus on its newer hotel , liquor store and restaurant businesses in Europe and North America . 
Whitbread also announced that Mr. Jarvis , who is 48 , will become the company 's chief executive March 1 . 
The real estate limited partnership also said it will pay a special year-end cash distribution of 10 cents a unit . 
But an uninvited guest is expected to try to crash the party . 
, and it has spent almost $ 1 billion developing the new technology . 
And unlike IBM 's water-cooled mainframes , it does n't need any plumbing . 
And IBM is n't expected to deliver a new generation of mainframes until 1991 . 
Still , no one expects IBM 's rivals to deliver a knockout . 
if it 's already running on an IBM mainframe , '' concedes Kenneth H. Olsen , Digital 's president . 
But Mr. Rose is still looking seriously at the 9000 . 
But Mr. Rose is still looking seriously at the 9000 . 
. 
when they outgrew the VAX . 
. 
And National Advanced Systems , a joint venture of Japan 's Hitachi Ltd. and General Motors Corp. 's Electronic Data Systems , is expected to unveil a line of powerful IBM-compatible mainframes later this year . 
, but the dollar slumped . 
as trading activity slowed from the frenzied pace earlier this week . 
But the Dow Jones Transportation Average fell for the seventh-consecutive session as more investors dumped UAL shares . 
as more investors dumped UAL shares . 
as traders scrambled to buy Treasury issues on fears that the Northern California earthquake might lead to a stock-market debacle . 
But when stocks held steady , Treasury bonds later retreated . 
. 
But when stocks held steady , Treasury bonds later retreated . 
while boosting stocks , traders said . 
But many investors remain wary about stocks , partly because they expect continued turbulence in the junk-bond market that would make it more difficult to finance corporate takeovers . 
, partly because they expect continued turbulence in the junk-bond market that would make it more difficult to finance corporate takeovers . 
, and this will be very unsettling for companies that have issued junk bonds . 
`` But when it does matter , then it 's the only thing that matters . '' 
. '' 
However , many institutional investors are reacting to the stock market 's plunge as `` a great buying opportunity , '' said Charles I. Clough , chief investment strategist at Merrill Lynch Capital Markets . 
But prices later reversed course , finishing slightly lower , as investors concluded that any cuts would n't be large and that foreign oil producers would quickly pick up the slack . 
But prices later reversed course , finishing slightly lower , as investors concluded that any cuts would n't be large and that foreign oil producers would quickly pick up the slack . 
, as investors concluded that any cuts would n't be large and that foreign oil producers would quickly pick up the slack . 
and that foreign oil producers would quickly pick up the slack . 
a year after the parent company of American Airlines and the rest of the airline industry set profit records . 
Still , AMR 's stumble does n't bode well for the rest of the industry . 
, and its difficulties are likely to be reflected industrywide as other major carriers report third-quarter results over the next several days . 
as other major carriers report third-quarter results over the next several days . 
Meanwhile , the company 's board , which had said nothing publicly about investor Donald Trump 's recently withdrawn $ 7.5 billion offer for AMR , issued a statement condemning `` ill-conceived and reckless '' bids and saying it was `` pleased '' that Mr. Trump had backed out . 
, and the whole industry is having a pricing problem . '' 
. 
because the legislation would not ban coastal development . 
However , home builders would have to bear the full costs of such beach-house construction . 
. 
The bureau 's report also showed that while some measures of the nation 's economic well-being improved modestly in 1988 , the fruits of prosperity were shared less equitably than the year before . 
. 
But , he added , `` Since the late 1960s , the distribution of income has been slowly getting less equal . 
But the median income of American families fell 0.2 % , the first time it has failed to rise since 1982 . 
, but it does n't consider other government benefits , such as Medicare . 
, but the improvements have been modest in the past couple of years . 
But two-thirds of all poor Americans were white . 
, Mr. Butz said . 
-- Per capita income of blacks , though still only 60 % that of whites , rose 3.9 % in 1988 , while per capita income of whites rose only 1.5 % . -- Among married couples , the gap between blacks and whites narrowed sharply , as income of black families shot up 6.8 % while income of whites did n't budge . The Census Bureau also said : -- Some 17.2 % of all money income received by families in 1988 went to the wealthiest 5 % of all families , up from 16.9 % in 1987 . That is the greatest share reported for any year since 1950 , although changing definitions over the years distort the comparison . -- The top fifth of all families got 44 % of the income , up from 41.5 % a decade earlier . The bottom fifth of all families got 4.6 % of the income , down from 5.2 % a decade earlier . -- Confirming other government data showing that wages are n't keeping pace with inflation , earnings of year-round , full-time male workers fell 1.3 % in 1988 after adjusting for higher prices , the first such drop since 1982 . Earnings of female workers were unchanged . -- Women working full-time earned 66 cents for every dollar earned by men , a penny more than in 1987 and seven cents more than in 1978 . -- Median household income -- which includes both those living in families and those who are n't -- rose 0.3 % last year to $ 27,225 after inflation . It rose sharply in the Northeast and Midwest and fell slightly in the South and West . Median family income was $ 32,191 , down 0.2 % . 
, although changing definitions over the years distort the comparison . 
. 
, while per capita income of whites rose only 1.5 % . 
, as income of black families shot up 6.8 % while income of whites did n't budge . 
while income of whites did n't budge . 
Fueling a controversy that has been simmering for years , the Census Bureau also said its figures would look far rosier if it recalculated the poverty threshold using an improved consumer-price measure adopted in 1983 . 
if it recalculated the poverty threshold using an improved consumer-price measure adopted in 1983 . 
. 
But yesterday , as Atlantis rumbled into a patch of clear sky above Florida with storm clouds closing in on it , NASA sought to turn Galileo into a symbol of triumph . 
. 
to pick up detailed data about gases that may be similar to the material from which the solar system was formed 4.6 billion years ago . 
, but these planets are lifeless ; Earth , on the other hand , has a diminished store of such material but is rich in life . 
; Earth , on the other hand , has a diminished store of such material but is rich in life . 
, and a number of project veterans were on hand to watch the launch . 
if the shuttle exploded yesterday , they were n't quieted by yesterday 's successful launch . 
The protesters point out that Galileo also could crash to Earth then . 
after NASA beefed up its security . 
One protest did get past NASA 's guard , though ; a computer virus caused anti-Galileo messages to flash onto some computer screens at NASA centers . 
Not all of NASA 's space-science work will be so auspicious , though . 
; instead , it will try to predict whether any of the rubble will smash to the ground and where . 
, while the Washington bureaucracy `` took hours getting into gear . '' 
until it is completed . 
But some attorneys who are familiar with the matter said the $ 6.5 million payment will be shared by Bally and Mr. Trump , with the casino and hotel concern probably paying the bulk of the money . 
But lawyers said Mr. Steinberg probably faced much more potential liability because , when he sued Disney during his takeover battle , he filed on behalf of all shareholders . 
because , when he sued Disney during his takeover battle , he filed on behalf of all shareholders . 
. 
. 
, the New York investor did n't demand the company also pay a premium to other shareholders . 
. 
Mr. Trump and Bally also appeared to have some leverage in the case because in the state of Delaware , where Bally is incorporated , courts have held that greenmail is often protected by the business-judgment rule . 
because in the state of Delaware , where Bally is incorporated , courts have held that greenmail is often protected by the business-judgment rule . 
He is also accused of lying under oath and of leaking information obtained from a wiretap he supervised . 
after he finished his argument . 
and that the impeachment proceedings against him constitute double jeopardy . 
But Rep. John Bryant -LRB- D. , Texas -RRB- , the lead counsel for the House managers who conducted a lengthy inquiry into Judge Hastings ' activities , said `` a mountain of evidence points to his certain guilt . '' 
. 
However , Judge Hastings has said he will continue to fight and is contemplating an appeal of any impeachment to the U.S. Supreme Court . 
and thus are n't covered under commercial policies . 
They also have argued that government proceedings notifying a company of potential responsibility do n't fit the legal definition of a lawsuit ; thus , such governmental proceedings are n't covered by the policies , the insurers say . 
; thus , such governmental proceedings are n't covered by the policies , the insurers say . 
, but the insurer did n't respond . 
The appeals court also said , `` We think an ordinary businessman reading this policy would have believed himself covered for the demands and potential damage claims '' stemming from any cleanup . 
, '' said Kenneth Abraham , professor of environmental law and insurance law at the University of Virginia , because many commercial insurance policies are issued by companies based in New York . 
. '' 
unless they had an emergency . 
. 
. 
, and AEW could own the other half . 
Also , it has not yet been decided exactly how much of the mortgage AEW will be able to convert into equity . 
and therefore does not trigger costly transfer taxes and reappraisal . 
But Japanese institutions shied away from bidding on the high-profile tower out of fear their purchase of the property would trigger anti-Japanese sentiment . 
But that deal fell through in September after it became clear that the sale would lead to a major real estate tax reassessment , raising property taxes , and making it difficult to lease the building at competitive prices . 
after it became clear that the sale would lead to a major real estate tax reassessment , raising property taxes , and making it difficult to lease the building at competitive prices . 
However , Japanese authorities apparently were concerned that a refinancing also would attract too much publicity . 
However , Japanese authorities apparently were concerned that a refinancing also would attract too much publicity . 
Sears then went back to AEW , the Boston pension adviser that had proposed a convertible debt deal during the first round of bids last spring . 
The electronics maker and retailer previously estimated the sale price at between $ 100 million and $ 200 million for Datatronic 's Victor microcomputer and Micronic hand-held computer subsidiaries . 
In addition , Tandy will acquire rights to the Victor and Micronic names for computers . 
Indeed , some investment bankers have already started restructuring deals to cope with the expected rules . 
because it gets a deduction and does n't have to repay the debt for several years . 
For example , if a company posted a loss of $ 100 million from buy-out interest payments , the existing rule would allow the concern to be able to receive a refund from the tax it paid from 1986 through 1989 , when it may have been a profitable public company . 
, when it may have been a profitable public company . 
But that rule is being virtually overlooked by Wall Street , which is concentrating on coping with the deduction issue . 
if you do n't have that feature , '' argued Lawrence Schloss , managing director for merchant banking at Donaldson , Lufkin & Jenrette Securities Corp. in New York . 
Moreover , one investment banker , who requested anonymity , said his firm did n't raise the ante for a target company earlier this month after a stronger bid emerged from a public company that was n't concerned about the financing provision . 
after a stronger bid emerged from a public company that was n't concerned about the financing provision . 
if we thought that law was n't going to pass , '' he said . 
and then the deal can go through , '' said Peter C. Canellos , tax partner at Wachtell , Lipton , Rosen & Katz . 
and then the deal can go through , '' said Peter C. Canellos , tax partner at Wachtell , Lipton , Rosen & Katz . 
. 
if it pays five percentage points above Treasury notes , has at least a five-year maturity and does n't pay interest for at least one year out of the first five . 
The bill would then declare that the debt is equity and therefore is n't deductible . 
and therefore is n't deductible . 
until interest is actually paid . 
. 
But those holders are often foreign investors and tax-exempt pension funds that do n't pay taxes on their holdings . 
. 
, but its reservoir of emergency funds must be replenished soon if the aid is to continue . 
if the aid is to continue . 
In addition , an unusually wide array of federal agencies moved to provide specialized assistance . 
, and the Pentagon was providing everything from radio communications to blood transfusions to military police for directing traffic . 
But the pool of federal emergency-relief funds already is running low because of the heavy costs of cleaning up Hurricane Hugo , and Congress will be under pressure to allocate more money quickly . 
, and Congress will be under pressure to allocate more money quickly . 
, and White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said $ 273 million of that money remains and could be diverted for quick expenditures related to the earthquake . 
Now , though , enormous costs for earthquake relief will pile on top of outstanding costs for hurricane relief . 
, and we will have to consider appropriate requests for follow-on funding , '' Mr. Fitzwater said . 
But Mr. Fitzwater said , `` There will be , I think quite obviously , a very large amount of money required from all levels of government . '' 
But it is n't just Washington 's relief dollars that are spread thin ; its relief manpower also is stretched . 
; its relief manpower also is stretched . 
, and spokesman Russell Clanahan acknowledged that `` we 're pretty thin . '' 
To further complicate relief efforts , the privately funded American Red Cross also finds itself strapped for funds after its big Hugo operation . 
when you have to worry about the budget . '' 
until state officials make specific requests to FEMA , agency officials said . 
And in the confusion after the earthquake , `` the information flow is a little slow coming in from the affected area , '' said Carl Suchocki , a FEMA spokesman . 
Still , some aid is moving westward from Washington almost immediately . 
after the houses have been inspected to ensure they are sound . 
Additional housing vouchers and certificates will be made available , officials said , and some housing and community-development funds may be shifted from other programs or made available for emergency use . 
And the Treasury said residents of the San Francisco area will be able to cash in savings bonds even if they have n't held them for the minimum six-month period . 
even if they have n't held them for the minimum six-month period . 
. 
And the Pentagon said dozens of additional crews and transport aircraft were on alert `` awaiting orders to move emergency supplies . '' 
Some victims also were treated at the Letterman Army Medical Center in San Francisco and at the Naval Hospital in Oakland . 
In addition , 20 military police from the Presidio , a military base in San Francisco , are assisting with traffic control , and a Navy ship was moved from a naval station at Treasure Island near the Bay Bridge to San Francisco to help fight fires . 
, and a Navy ship was moved from a naval station at Treasure Island near the Bay Bridge to San Francisco to help fight fires . 
And federal officials are promising to move rapidly with federal highway aid to rebuild the area 's severely damaged road system . 
And though federal law dictates that only $ 100 million can be disbursed from that fund in any one state per disaster , administration officials expect Congress to move in to authorize spending more now in California . 
. 
, but officials expect red tape to be cut this time . 
Keith Mulrooney , special assistant to Federal Highway Administrator Thomas Larson , also said that after the 1971 San Fernando earthquake in Southern California , the state set tougher standards for bridges , and with federal aid , began a program to retrofit highways and bridges for earthquake hazards . 
, but two other phases are continuing . 
But how much will shoppers benefit ? 
As a result , prices paid to farmers for the commodities , which are used in products as diverse as bubble gum and chicken feed , plummet 20 % to 33 % . 
But do n't expect too much in the way of price breaks soon at the supermarket . 
if ranchers expand herds . 
, but humans have to factor in an expensive middleman : the processor . 
. 
as aging baby boomers and others decide to have children -- now . 
, and in 1987 , Americans spent about $ 1 billion to fight the problem . 
, but more are expected . 
... . '' 
But the utility may not continue next year . 
And while it 's too soon to tell how sales will fare in the important 1989 Christmas season , some companies take steps to ease the usual 11th-hour crush . 
. 
if ordered by Dec. 20 . 
And , for an extra $ 6 , Land 's End will deliver orders within two days ; customers can designate the day . 
because consumers have more money but less time to spend it . 
, and the honor did wonders to improve Pittsburgh 's soot-stained image . 
Yuba City , Calif. , meanwhile , ranked dead last among 329 metro areas . 
. '' 
But attention also rivets on who finishes last , and Pine Bluff , Ark. -- which finished third to last in 1981 and second to last in 1985 -- is certainly in the running . 
But attention also rivets on who finishes last , and Pine Bluff , Ark. -- which finished third to last in 1981 and second to last in 1985 -- is certainly in the running . 
, and Pine Bluff , Ark. -- which finished third to last in 1981 and second to last in 1985 -- is certainly in the running . 
, while General Dynamics Corp. reported nearly flat earnings of $ 76.5 million , or $ 1.83 a share . 
as B-2 Stealth bomber research-and-development revenue continued to ebb and high costs on some other programs cut into profit . 
and high costs on some other programs cut into profit . 
and because fewer F\/A-18 fighter sections are being produced in its subcontract work with prime contractor McDonnell Douglas Corp . 
Northrop 's interest expense also soared to $ 35 million from $ 17 million a year ago . 
, although that compared with $ 911 million at Sept. 30 , 1988 . 
F-16 deliveries also have fallen `` slightly behind schedule , '' although a return to the previous schedule is expected in 1990 , the company said . 
, '' although a return to the previous schedule is expected in 1990 , the company said . 
while customers awaited the launch of 1-2-3 Release 3 , the upgraded spreadsheet software . 
Also , he estimated unit shipments of 1-2-3 in all its forms were about 315,000 , up 7 % from 1988 's quarterly average . 
. 
, though many workers were forced to stay home because of damaged roadways ; others elected to take the day off . 
if you shake them up a little bit . '' 
Still , many were confident that `` in a day or two , everything should be back to normal , '' according to a spokeswoman for the Semiconductor Industry Association , based in Cupertino . 
IBM , for instance , said it anticipates returning to a normal work schedule by the weekend at its San Jose plant , which puts out disk drives for the 3090 family of mainframes . 
. 
Sun Microsystems Inc. and Tandem Computers Inc. also signaled that they should recover quickly . 
For many companies , of course , there is still a slew of nagging problems to grapple with , some of which have the potential to become quite serious . 
For example , a spokesman for Advanced Micro Devices said the Sunnyvale chip maker is worried about blackouts . 
But , given what might have happened to the fragile parts that are at the heart of the microelectronics business , the bulk of Valley companies seemed to be just about shouting hosannas . 
and , thus , in step with the latest safety codes . 
Also , the soil in the Valley is solid , unlike the landfill of San Francisco 's downtown Marina District , which was hit with fires and vast destruction . 
In addition , some microelectronics companies said they were prepared for tremulous conditions like Tuesday 's . 
Like other large Valley companies , Intel also noted that it has factories in several parts of the nation , so that a breakdown at one location should n't leave customers in a total pinch . 
, so that a breakdown at one location should n't leave customers in a total pinch . 
when trouble arises . 
They then run remotely controlled self-diagnostic programs . 
Digital also said it has dispatched teams of technicians to California . 
Meanwhile , several other major installations around the Valley -- America 's center of high-tech -- said they , too , fared as well as could be expected . 
after it was realized that `` there were no show-stoppers '' in the 150-plus buildings on its one-square-mile campus . 
, but `` the bulk of the place is in pretty good shape , '' an official said . 
It also generates pieces of the missile shield called the Strategic Defense Initiative . 
And the egg producers have done a pretty good job . 
But his case is notable both for the scale of the fight -- it is n't often that a congressional hearing is held to determine whether one small businessman is a threat to the republic -- and for what it tells about the pitfalls of marketing a new product . 
However , dozens of bakers , restaurant chefs and other food preparers who flocked to Mr. Maynard 's defense say that products ranging from egg bread to eclairs lose some zip when the eggs come in 30-pound cans instead of shells . 
when the eggs come in 30-pound cans instead of shells . 
But for companies that use hundreds of eggs a day , breaking them by hand can get , well , out of hand . 
, says Mr. Maynard . 
But when Mr. Maynard came forward with his machine in the early 1970s nobody else was offering them in the U.S. . 
U.S. . 
, and it can also be found on unclean shells . 
, and it can also be found on unclean shells . 
Thus , any machine that breaks large amounts of eggs at once has the potential to spread salmonella if a bad egg gets in with the good ones . 
if a bad egg gets in with the good ones . 
as long as instructions were followed , Mr. Maynard boasts . 
But he says that 's no more a reason for banning Egg Kings than bad drivers are a reason for banning cars . 
'' and that Mr. Maynard is trying `` to make a fast buck at the expense of the nation 's egg producers . '' 
, but the group 's attorney , Alfred Frawley , says the group 's actions are motivated solely by `` health concerns . '' 
, thus limiting the machine 's potential market to bakeries and restaurants and other establishments that are n't regulated by the USDA . 
, thus limiting the machine 's potential market to bakeries and restaurants and other establishments that are n't regulated by the USDA . 
The egg producers also lobbied the Food and Drug Administration . 
But the FDA in a 1985 letter to the United Egg Producers said that there was `` little likelihood '' of a health problem as long as instructions were followed . 
as long as instructions were followed . 
So the producers went to Capitol Hill , where a congressman from Georgia introduced a measure to ban centrifugal egg-breaking machines . 
, and the battle was joined . 
, though it took a vote on the floor of the House of Representatives to do it . 
Even then , opponents managed to get a congressional hearing to examine what one congressman called an `` unscrupulous '' method for breaking eggs . 
But , so far , the change of scenery has n't ended his string of bad breaks . 
But on the evidence of `` The Fabulous Baker Boys , '' that may be the only thing she ca n't do , at least when she 's acting in movies . 
, at least when she 's acting in movies . 
and she 's concentrating on matching that internal tone . 
Yet her intensity stops and starts with the music . 
. 
Yet nothing about `` Baker Boys , '' and certainly nothing about Ms. Pfeiffer , really is like something from the video vault . 
, but who also has enough experience to see his limits . 
, but who also has enough experience to see his limits . 
However , Mr. Kloves directs his own material without sentimentality and at its own eccentric pace ; `` Baker Boys '' is both bluesy and funny . 
. 
And Dave Grusin 's witty score embraces the banal requirements of banquet-hall musicianship -LRB- `` Feelings '' is a must -RRB- without condescension . 
So it 's quite possible that the terrific play between the brothers is n't natural at all , that Jeff and Beau had to work like crazy to make their brotherly love -- and resentment and frustration and rage -- seem so very real . 
. 
Yet they do n't disparage their audiences by disparaging their act . 
, unless circumstances -LRB- a regular gig at a `` tropical '' lounge , for example -RRB- require them to wear special costumes , like Hawaiian shirts . 
if he worked for a big corporation . 
Yet Jack 's the one who can remember every dive they ever played , and when , and he dutifully shows up for work night after night -LRB- he consoles himself with booze and by showing up at the last minute -RRB- . 
, and he dutifully shows up for work night after night -LRB- he consoles himself with booze and by showing up at the last minute -RRB- . 
while prancing around in a little cotton candy pink angora sweater that could n't be more perfect . 
And Ms. Pfeiffer 's particular version of `` Making Whoopee '' -- and the way Mr. Ballhaus photographs her , from the tips of her red high heels right up her clingy red velvet dress -- might make you think of Marilyn Monroe if Ms. Pfeiffer had n't gone and become a star in her own right . 
if Ms. Pfeiffer had n't gone and become a star in her own right . 
. '' 
, and you have a lot of patience , take a look at `` Grease 2 . '' 
since it folded its ETA Systems Inc. supercomputer unit this past April . 
. 
, and final restated figures are n't yet available . 
Bank Building earlier said the restatement is necessitated by `` certain errors in recording receivables and payables '' at its Loughman Cabinet division . 
And if I think that some people -LCB- on HUD Secretary Jack Kemp 's -RCB- staff are off base in terms in which they 're evaluating certain things affecting my hometown , I have to tell you something -- I 'm not going to take it . 
. 
And one of our charges is to be an ombudsman for our area . 
And if we 're not ombudsman for our area , we ought to be thrown out of office . 
. 
On the other hand , if we 're asking for something unreasonable or unethical and so on , then that 's a whole different story . 
, then that 's a whole different story . 
But if I feel that there are situations where I 'm trying to get housing for our area -- whatever it happens to be -- and I have to feel that I ca n't even ask a question , I 've got to tell you , I think that 's outrageous . . 
. . 
-- whatever it happens to be -- and I have to feel that I ca n't even ask a question , I 've got to tell you , I think that 's outrageous . . 
. 
nor denying the Merc charges , said in a statement that the Merc charges were `` technical in nature '' and that `` no customers were hurt '' as a result of the violations cited by the Merc . 
'' and that `` no customers were hurt '' as a result of the violations cited by the Merc . 
, as investors opted for safety instead of the stock market . 
, and the yields on Treasury bills sold at Monday 's auction fell to 7.61 % for three months and 7.82 % for six months . 
, '' said Frank Rachwalski , who manages the Kemper Money Market Fund . 
as portfolio managers adjust the maturities of their investments -- short-term Treasury securities , commercial paper and the like -- to capture the highest yields . 
when rates are rising and longer when they are falling . 
when they are falling . 
, and the 30-day compound yield slid to 8.60 % from 8.61 % . 
It also creates a newly merged world-wide ad agency controlled by Eurocom and headed jointly by New York ad man Jerry Della Femina and two top WCRS executives . 
, while attracting more multinational clients than the agencies were able to attract alone . 
For Eurocom , meanwhile , the move gives it a strong U.S. foothold in Della Femina , and more than quadruples the size of its ad agency business world-wide . 
It also gives the outspoken Mr. Della Femina -- who often generates as much publicity for himself as for his clients -- an international platform that he most certainly wo n't be loath to use . 
Meanwhile , Eurocom , which had held 20 % of WCRS 's ad unit , will pay # 43.5 million -LRB- $ 68.5 million -RRB- to raise its stake to 60 % . 
That price also covers Eurocom raising to 60 % its 51 % stake in Europe 's Belier Group , a joint venture ad agency network it owns with WCRS . 
Eurocom will also have the right to buy the remaining 40 % of the merged ad agency group in six years . 
, while Mr. Breene said it also plans to make acquisitions in Scandinavia , Germany and elsewhere . 
, while Mr. Breene said it also plans to make acquisitions in Scandinavia , Germany and elsewhere . 
. 
and also does work for a few packaged-goods clients , including Dow Chemical Co. 's Saran Wrap . 
But major packaged-goods players of the world -- such as Procter & Gamble , Colgate-Palmolive and Unilever -- have steadfastly eluded the agency . 
Still , the restructuring could create one of the most powerful alliances between advertising and media-buying firms that Europe has seen . 
, while Eurocom said it expects to pay about # 32 million for its WCRS stake . 
and Mr. Della Femina will receive an additional multimillion-dollar sum , which some industry executives pegged at about $ 10 million . 
For Carat , meanwhile , the alliance with Eurocom and WCRS is intended to strengthen its own push outside France . 
They thus have won the French space-buying business of such advertising giants as Coca-Cola Co. , Fiat S.p . A. , Gillette and Kodak . 
But now , other agencies are getting into the business with their own competing media-buying groups -- and Carat wants to expand to the rest of Europe . 
-- and Carat wants to expand to the rest of Europe . 
once the market settles down . 
But WCRS added that `` in the light of the current uncertainty in the equity markets , '' it has arranged medium-term debt financing , which would be underwritten by Samuel Montagu & Co. Ltd . 
, spokesmen for those agencies said . 
and then felt the skyscraper sway seven to eight feet , according to a spokeswoman . 
The accounts , which billed about $ 7 million last year , according to Leading National Advertisers , were previously handled at Bozell , New York . 
after being vice president of media at MGM . 
. 
Yet some people are advancing a chilling casuistry : that what we are seeing is somehow the understandable result of the historical sins committed by the Turks in the 16th century . 
Today 's Turks in Bulgaria , in other words , deserve what is coming to them four centuries later . 
. 
, but one has to wonder what possible good such a resolution will achieve . 
The resolution also comes at a time when Turkey has been seeking help from the United States in resolving its Bulgarian emigration controversy and pursuing democratic reforms that may lead to membership in the European Community . 
when Turkey asked for assistance in dealing with its Bulgarian emigration crisis . 
. 
But what the Senate Judiciary Committee has done in supporting the strongly worded Armenian resolution achieves no useful end ; it merely produces more controversy and embittered memories . 
, and the U.S. does its values no credit by ignoring that while casting its votes into the past . 
while casting its votes into the past . 
. 
But of course the Democrats pillorying HUD in hearings and in the press have no such solution in mind . 
Instead , they 're scrambling to protect the very programs at the heart of the HUD scandal . 
, but ultimately he is proposing to make fundamentally flawed programs work slightly more fairly and efficiently . 
They were appalled , for instance , that he wanted to target more of the $ 3 billion Community Development Block Grant -LRB- CDBG -RRB- program to low-income projects and zero out the notorious `` discretionary '' funds that have allowed HUD officials to steer contracts to political cronies . 
They also give those in Congress political credit for bringing home the pork , and so they are popular with such Members as Mary Rose Oakar . 
, and so they are popular with such Members as Mary Rose Oakar . 
, and so they are popular with such Members as Mary Rose Oakar . 
so Cleveland can build an 18-story Rock and Roll Hall of Fame . 
, and Mr. Kemp says that rock 'n' roll musicians and the music industry ought to put up the money . 
, I think is most unfortunate . '' 
and what these gentleladies and gentlemen want to do with HUD . 
, and zeroing out housing middlemen would free up more money for public housing tenants to manage and even own their units . 
unless the government reclaims the streets from the drug gangs . 
since the course of human progress has now culminated in the glorious full stop of American civilization . 
But we are , in reality , witnessing the continuing decline of the political economy of capitalism : not so much the end of history but the history of the end . 
when society decides it 's okay , necessary even , to look the other way . 
And by the early 1980s U.S. capitalists had ample reason to welcome junk bonds , to look the other way . 
Government statistics in fact show that the profit rate -- net pretax profits divided by capital stock -- peaked in 1965 at 17.2 % . 
and the supposed miracle that followed has seen the profit rate rise only to 8.1 % in 1986 and 8 % in 1987 . 
if you divide the market value of firms by the replacement costs of their assets , the famous Q ratio associated with Prof. James Tobin . 
But of course the market could decide that the firm 's capital stock -- its assets -- means nothing if the firm is not producing profits . 
if the firm is not producing profits . 
This is indeed what the market decided . 
. 
and the capital assets he bought on the cheap will soon be producing profits , thus restoring the market 's faith in them . 
, thus restoring the market 's faith in them . 
But here is where the entrepreneur made a very risky bet , and where society was maybe foolish to look the other way . 
, and where society was maybe foolish to look the other way . 
and the Q ratio was only 65 % in 1987 and 68.9 % in 1988 . 
But there were enough promoters announcing the end of history -LRB- in this case suspension of normal laws of economic gravity -RRB- for society to continue shielding its eyes . 
But this is not where the rewards of junk financing were found . 
, and now we have an extremely high-interest burden relative to cash flow . 
In other words , after the glory boom of the Reagan years , wages had sunk from the post World War II peak by 16 % as capitalists , helped by the government , turned down the screws or went offshore . 
as capitalists , helped by the government , turned down the screws or went offshore . 
But there are signs now -- the strikes by miners , Boeing workers , telephone workers , etc. -- that this attack on wages is being more fiercely resisted . 
when he was reporting the Wall Street crash in 1929 -RRB- . 
But sophistication has its limits . 
, but there are fault lines -- the crisis in profits , the assault on wages , the structural inequity of the system -- that make fools of those who claim that the future is here and that history is over . 
and that history is over . 
, and there have been rumors about such a tie between JAL and European airlines . 
But he said JAL is talking to Lufthansa and Air France about some sort of cargo venture . 
. 
, they said , and negotiations with partners were already under way . 
JAL also has signaled it is looking for toeholds in Europe before the end of 1992 . 
so it could funnel its passengers from London to other European destinations . 
But last week there were air-traffic negotiations between the U.K. and Japan , a likely first step to any commercial agreement between JAL and British Airways or another U.K. carrier . 
because the Pacific exchange 's options floor was shut down as a result of Tuesday 's earthquake . 
In addition , specialists on the exchanges agreed to provide backup capital for market-making in Pacific exchange options traded on the exchanges . 
But professionals said throughout the day that the shutdown would n't be a cause for alarm even if it were to persist for several days . 
even if it were to persist for several days . 
, because they are guaranteed by the Options Clearing Corp. , '' said Michael Schwartz , a senior registered options strategist at Oppenheimer & Co . 
The SEC reassigned trading in the options , however , to allow investors to do more than simply exercise the options . 
. 
, but they could n't receive telephone calls . 
'' Mr. Vyas said . 
. '' 
Meanwhile , the brokerage firms in San Francisco were trying to cope . 
Also , most of the telecommunications equipment was out . 
Then she discovered that Quotron Systems Inc. 's Sacramento lines were down , because they are normally tied in through a system that goes through San Francisco . 
, because they are normally tied in through a system that goes through San Francisco . 
So the Kidder brokers had to call other company offices to get quotes on stocks . 
, though most of the rerouting was done by computer . 
, while just parts of Oakland and San Jose were knocked out . 
But Dale Irvine , director of the emergency center , said service was being restored to outlying San Francisco areas . 
The firm also will permit its members and the public `` to exercise their put and call options contracts traded on the Pacific exchange '' even if the exchange is closed , said Wayne Luthringshausen , chairman of Options Clearing . 
'' even if the exchange is closed , said Wayne Luthringshausen , chairman of Options Clearing . 
, while call options give holders the right , but not the obligation , to buy a financial instrument at a specified price -RRB- . 
`` We are seeing such exercises today , in fact . 
. 
after the market 's close . 
In addition , despite IBM 's well-publicized recent problems , the computer giant still generates enormous amounts of cash . 
As a result , some securities analysts had predicted in recent days that IBM would authorize additional purchases . 
. 
In addition , as of Sept. 30 , the company still had authorization to buy $ 368 million of stock under a prior repurchase program . 
Over the long term , however , IBM 's stock repurchases -- along with its hefty , $ 4.84-a-share annual dividend and generally loyal following among large institutional investors -- are providing a floor for the stock price . 
. 
Then it had a series of smaller glitches , including problems manufacturing certain personal computers and the delay in the announcement of some important workstations . 
Finally , IBM had to delay the introduction of some high-end disk drives , which account for 10 % of its $ 60 billion of annual revenue . 
, and they are n't all necessarily even related . 
There are also other factors at work that are outside IBM 's control , such as currency exchange rates . 
when they are translated into dollars , is expected to knock 80 to 85 cents off IBM 's per-share earnings for the full year . 
Still , investors will take some convincing before they get back into IBM 's stock in a big way . 
before they get back into IBM 's stock in a big way . 
. 
However , he added , such event-driven trading moves typically last only a few hours and are often made without full information . 
, indicating that investors thought the quake might cost insurers a lot of money . 
In fact , Fireman 's Fund Corp. , which ended the day off 50 cents to $ 36.50 , said earthquake damage would slightly hurt fourth-quarter profit . 
But home-building stocks were a mixed bag . 
and Chevron Corp. , despite a temporary pipeline shutdown , rose $ 1 to $ 65 . 
Meanwhile , shares of some big housing lenders got hit , on the likelihood that the lenders ' collateral -- people 's homes -- suffered physical damage and perhaps a loss in value . 
, and BankAmerica Corp. fell 50 cents to $ 31.875 . 
Some California thrift stocks also fell , including Golden West Financial Corp. and H.F. Ahmanson & Co. , which reported lower earnings yesterday . 
, though the company said there wo n't be any financial impact . 
, and some investors think it might have extra costs to repair damaged telephone lines . 
after sustaining a multimillion dollar loss Friday , options industry officials said . 
, and after Monday they felt they did n't want to be exposed any more , '' he said . 
Corp. , because it could n't meet regulatory capital requirements after Friday 's market slide . 
Most also were relatively undercapitalized compared with the size of most Wall Street securities firms . 
But put her behind a shopping cart and she turns ruthless . 
and she turns ruthless . 
. 
. 
`` But I do n't want any of that oil for my grandkids . '' 
, but it hopes to remove the objectionable tropical oil from all its products by year end . -RRB- 
. 
Overall , 12 % of consumers are n't brand loyal for any of the 25 product categories . 
, and no one is loyal for more than 20 types of products . 
, and I usually buy whichever brand of coffee happens to be on sale . '' 
because they want to be associated with the image its advertising conveys , whether that 's macho Marlboro cigarettes or Cher 's Uninhibited perfume . 
, and just 29 % of battery buyers stick to one brand . 
, but consumer researchers say that 's actually quite high for such a mundane product . 
Higher-income people also tend to be more brand loyal these days , the Journal survey and other research studies indicate . 
, if not always the best value for the money . 
Meanwhile , `` the bottom end of the market is becoming less loyal , '' says Laurel Cutler , vice chairman of the ad agency FCB\/Leber Katz Partners . 
as they move into middle age . 
But now that they 're settling down and raising families , might they also show more stability in their brand choices ? 
? 
, might they also show more stability in their brand choices ? 
, '' he says , `` but boomers tend to be brand loyal in categories like running shoes and bottled water , but less so in others like toilet paper and appliances . '' 
. 
Rather , they tend to have a set of two or three favorites . 
. 
, ' '' says Karen Olshan , a senior vice president at BBDO . 
so what difference does it make which I buy , ' '' says Karen Olshan , a senior vice president at BBDO . 
But given such strong brand disloyalty , some marketers are putting renewed emphasis on image advertising . 
A small but growing number of companies are also trying to instill more fervent brand loyalty through such personalized direct-marketing ploys as catalogs , magazines and membership clubs for brand users . 
. 
But most companies are too afraid to take that chance . 
Consider , for example , what happened to Maxwell House coffee . 
But since returning to advertising , Maxwell House has regained the lost share and is running neck and neck with archrival Folgers . 
. 
. '' 
, and we 'd like to increase that . '' 
So Campbell is talking to its `` brand enthusiasts , '' probing their psychological attachment to its soup . 
after Hurricane Hugo ripped through the Caribbean and the Carolinas last month . 
But investors are betting that the financial and psychological impact of the earthquake , coming so soon after the hurricane , will help stem more than two years of intense price-cutting wars among business insurers . 
. 
and then planned for them to drive to the Bay area . 
Allstate Insurance Co. , a unit of Sears , Roebuck & Co. , said about 23 % of its personal property policyholders -- about 28 % in the San Franciso area -- also have earthquake coverage . 
, but only $ 100 million to $ 150 million is insured , it said . 
, so the cost of repairing it probably would have to be paid out of state general operating funds . 
However , the bridge , which charges a $ 1 toll each way , does have `` loss of income '' insurance to replace lost revenue if the operation of the bridge is interrupted for more than seven days . 
if the operation of the bridge is interrupted for more than seven days . 
Instead , even with the liabilities of two natural disasters in recent weeks , analysts said the total capital of the industry is likely to be higher at year end than it was at midyear . 
Indeed , the earthquake could contribute to a turnaround in the insurance cycle in a couple of ways . 
For example , insurers may seek to limit their future exposure to catastrophes by increasing the amount of reinsurance they buy . Such increased demand for reinsurance , along with the losses the reinsurers will bear from these two disasters , are likely to spur increases in reinsurance prices that will later be translated into an overall price rise . 
that will later be translated into an overall price rise . 
Still , a few individual companies , most likely smaller ones , could be devastated . 
. 
The company said it also is making progress in negotiating the buy-out of its design division by management . 
In addition , Hunter said it will use proceeds from a private placement of $ 8 million of preferred shares to purchase an interest in a start-up company to underwrite environmental impairment insurance . 
if we could n't do -LCB- the deal -RCB- within a month . '' 
. 
But Ford , Jaguar 's biggest shareholder since lifting its stake to 10.4 % this week , is pressing harder for talks with Sir John . 
since the U.S. auto giant launched a surprise bid for as much as 15 % of Jaguar last month . 
Ford has signaled it might acquire a majority interest later . 
He did n't rule out negotiations with Ford , however . 
, but the rest `` dropped by the wayside ever since the share price went above # 4 -LRB- $ 6.30 -RRB- a share . '' 
ever since the share price went above # 4 -LRB- $ 6.30 -RRB- a share . '' 
, but the subsequent takeover frenzy has driven them up . 
, the Jaguar chairman acknowledged , `` when you have somebody else breathing down your neck . 
and holding out the carrot of a larger bid later , said Stephen Reitman , European auto analyst at London brokers UBS Phillips & Drew . 
until U.K. government restrictions expire . 
But with its 10.4 % stake , Ford can convene a special Jaguar shareholders ' meeting and urge them to drop the restrictions prematurely . 
Otherwise , Jaguar may have to tolerate the two U.S. auto giants each owning a 15 % stake for more than a year . 
, but there 's always a first . 
. 
while the other posted a small drop . 
, after strong revenue gains were offset somewhat by refunds and rate reductions imposed by regulators in its Midwest territory . 
and toll messages jumped 5.2 % . 
In addition , earnings were reduced by rate reductions in Florida , Kentucky , Alabama , Tennessee and Louisiana . 
At Ameritech , based in Chicago , customer access lines increased by 402,000 , or 2.6 % , and cellular mobile lines increased by 80,000 , or 62.3 % , for the 12-month period ended Sept. 30 . 
and directory and unregulated business revenue jumped 9.5 % . 
But network access revenue dropped 4 % and toll revenue dropped 1.4 % . 
and toll revenue dropped 1.4 % . 
. 
In addition , in any survey , there is always the chance that other factors such as question wording could introduce errors into the findings . 
In August , by contrast , program trading averaged 10.3 % of daily Big Board turnover . 
, and a number of brokerage firms pulled back from using this strategy for a while . 
But as the outcry faded by the spring of 1988 , they resumed . 
. 
But the statistics released yesterday show the firms did nothing of the sort . 
because it accelerates market moves , if not actually causing them . 
, if not actually causing them . 
Under the exchange 's definitions , program trading also describes a number of other strategies that , in the opinion of some traders , do n't cause big swings in the market . 
. 
about three weeks after each month ends . 
But traders on the exchange floor , who can observe the computer-guided trading activity on monitor screens , said most of the top program-trading firms were active both days . 
. 
. 
when the Chicago Mercantile Exchange halted trading in Standard & Poor 's 500 futures contract -- a `` circuit breaker '' procedure instituted after the 1987 crash and implemented for the first time . 
, but the session ended shortly thereafter , leaving the stock market set up for more sell programs , traders said . 
, but the session ended shortly thereafter , leaving the stock market set up for more sell programs , traders said . 
But stunning volatility was produced in the process . 
as stock-index arbitrage sell programs kicked in . 
, and there is still uncertainty as to when values will recover , '' James P. Simmons , chairman , said . 
Richard M. Greenwood , Valley National 's executive vice president , said then that the company believed the write-downs were `` adequate '' and did n't plan to increase its reserves again . 
, but when markets head down , a company is always exposed to further negative surprises , '' Mr. Hoyt said . 
, '' Mr. Hoyt said . 
and that the stock market really is a safe place for average Americans to put their hard-earned dollars . 
And until last Friday , it seemed those efforts were starting to pay off . 
Then came the frightening 190-point plunge in the Dow Jones Industrial Average and a new wave of stock-market volatility . 
, because it reinforces the concern of volatility , '' says Jeffrey B. Lane , president of Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc . 
, and a lot of this business is based on client confidence . '' 
. 
, even though they believe the deck is stacked against them . 
But `` these wide swings scare them to death . '' 
. 
But those dollars have been going into such `` safe '' products as money market funds , which do n't generate much in the way of commissions for the brokerage firms . 
And before last Friday , they were actually making modest progress . 
Yet in 1989 , retail participation has been more than 20 % in every month , and was 23.5 % in August , the latest month for which figures are available . 
because corporate buy-backs are sometimes inadvertently included in Big Board data . 
But there did seem to be a retail activity pickup . 
But `` Friday did n't help things , '' says Mr. Schaefer . 
Joseph Grano , president of retail sales and marketing at PaineWebber Group Inc. , still thinks that individual investors will eventually go back into the stock market . 
, '' and their confidence will return , he says . 
Meanwhile , PaineWebber remains among the leaders in efforts to simply persuade investors to keep giving Wall Street their money . 
when the client is ready and when there 's a semblance of confidence . '' 
and when there 's a semblance of confidence . '' 
when the client is ready and when there 's a semblance of confidence . '' 
`` Then there 'll be another swing . 
Separately , Fannie Mae issued $ 400 million of Remic mortgage securities in 12 classes through First Boston Corp . 
since the program began in April 1987 . 
. 
, also beginning Sept. 30 , 1992 , from 101 1\/2 and declining half a point semiannually to par . 
In addition , a planned two-part offering of $ 58 million in unsecured notes was n't offered . 
As part of an agreement that settled charges brought by the Securities and Exchange Commission , a receiver was also appointed for the three venture-capital firms . 
, after the SEC questioned him about ties between him and companies he touted in a newsletter . 
The SEC also charged that Mr. Holmes acted as an officer or director of New Ventures , in violation of his previous consent agreement . 
Two of Mr. Holmes 's business associates who worked for Venture Capitalists , Kimberly Ann Smith and Frederick Byrum , also consented to being enjoined from violations of registration provisions of the securities laws . 
Ms. Smith also agreed to a permanent injunction barring her from acting as an officer , director or investment adviser of any mutual fund , unit investment trust or face-amount certificate company . 
, though it probably wo n't be included in the pending deficit-reduction bill . 
He added that he expects to talk to the Democrats who also wanted to cut the gains tax about drafting a joint proposal . 
until it reached a maximum of 35 % . 
As an alternative , he said , taxpayers could chose to reduce their gains by an inflation index . 
The Packwood plan would also include a proposal , designed by Sen. William Roth -LRB- R. , Del. -RRB- , that would expand and alter the deduction for individual retirement accounts . 
Separately , Chairman Dan Rostenkowski -LRB- D. , Ill . -RRB- of the House Ways and Means Committee said he did n't want the capital-gains tax cut or any other amendments attached to the pending bill raising the federal borrowing limit . 
He also urged House and Senate negotiators to rid the deficit-reduction bill of all provisions that increase the budget deficit , including the House-passed capital-gains provision . 
But this quake was n't the big one , the replay of 1906 that has been feared for so many years . 
, although some transportation problems may last weeks or months . 
Also , the region 's insistence on strict building codes helped prevent wider damage . 
, so that most parts of the valley and the major cities suffered largely cosmetic damage -- broken windows , falling brick and cornices , buckled asphalt or sidewalks . 
. 
when the city lost power . 
, but that gave emergency crews time to turn on an emergency system that runs primarily on diesel fuel . 
because the widely used fiber-optic cable has been installed underground with 25 extra feet of cable between junction points . 
Nevertheless , phone service was sporadic ; many computer terminals remained dark , and by late yesterday a third of San Francisco remained without power . 
, and by late yesterday a third of San Francisco remained without power . 
, as virtually all businesses shut down . 
because electricity was shut off and the area was being checked for gas leaks . 
and the area was being checked for gas leaks . 
California state transportation officials interviewed by telephone say they nevertheless do n't expect serious problems for commerce in and out of the Bay area . 
But many predicted that the commercial disruption would be short-lived . 
when the quake hit about a half-hour into the afternoon shift ; seven were hospitalized . 
, and water mains ruptured , a spokeswoman says . 
and workers sent home . 
But the plant was able to resume limited production of its Toyota Corollas and Geo Prizms by 6 a.m. yesterday , and absenteeism was only 7 % of the work force , about twice normal . 
, and absenteeism was only 7 % of the work force , about twice normal . 
when it was knocked off its foundation . 
, '' he says . 
when traffic backs up . 
Pacific Telesis says its Pacific Bell unit also was blocking about 50 % of its calls locally . 
It may also lead to new safeguards in major construction projects such as double-deck highways . 
because there will be an influx of people to help , '' says Beth Burnham Mace , a regional economist at DRI\/McGraw Hill , a Lexington , Mass. , forecasting firm . 
, but it will probably generate more construction activity . '' 
that would n't otherwise have been anticipated . 
But any increase is n't likely to be any kind of a surge . 
and then could raise it a bit as rebuilding begins . 
as rebuilding begins . 
as work is disrupted and people lose income and cut spending . 
and people lose income and cut spending . 
Corporate profits may also dip initially . 
Subsequently , however , the ill effects are likely to be offset , at least in economic terms , as construction activity begins . 
, as construction activity begins . 
as more information was received . 
if the epicenter had been in downtown San Francisco . 
, but it 's clear that insurers are likely to pay out enormous sums . 
, but , after taxes and use of its reinsurance lines , the company 's fourthquarter charge against earnings should n't top $ 50 million . 
because it has computerized maps of Northern California showing the exact locations of all the property it insures . 
But many Californians may not have adequate insurance coverage to pay for damages to their property . 
, but the great majority are n't covered . 
About 20 other deaths were also attributed to the earthquake . 
, but its terrible fist struck here on the Nimitz Freeway , a major artery serving the Bay Bridge between Oakland and San Francisco . 
Just a short span across the bay to the west , the quake also showed its mettle : A four-square-block area of the Marina District lies smoldering under a steady stream of seawater being pumped onto rubble to prevent it from blazing anew . 
as the underlying soil -- much of it landfill -- was literally turned to ooze by the quake 's intensive shaking , rupturing gas lines . 
when one of the buildings exploded into a fireball shortly after the quake struck . 
shortly after the quake struck . 
because water mains were severed as well . 
. 
, but as children we did n't always listen . 
. 
when doctors prescribe them . 
when the medicines are prescribed and include space for the doctor to write special instructions . 
In addition , Searle will give pharmacists brochures on the use of prescription drugs for distribution in their stores . 
and patients are deprived of the benefits of medication . 
as investors kept close watch on the stock market and worried about a wave of new supply . 
as investors rushed to buy Treasury securities on the prospect that stocks would plummet in the aftermath of the massive California earthquake . 
But when the Dow Jones Industrial Average rose instead , bonds drifted lower . 
. 
But when the Dow Jones Industrial Average rose instead , bonds drifted lower . 
, then the bond market will go back to looking at the next batch of economic numbers to determine '' where interest rates are heading . 
But some so-called high-quality junk issues fell as some mutual funds sold their most liquid issues to raise cash . 
as some mutual funds sold their most liquid issues to raise cash . 
Supply troubles were also on the minds of Treasury investors yesterday , who worried about the flood of new government securities coming next week . 
And Resolution Funding Corp. said late yesterday that it will sell $ 4.5 billion of 30-year bonds Wednesday . 
as investors tried to gauge the financial ramifications of Tuesday 's earthquake . 
But traders said the quake had only a minor impact on the trading of California state and local municipal debt . 
because the -LRB- issuers -RRB- are on top of the San Andreas fault , '' said Zane Mann , editor of the California Municipal Bond Advisor , a newsletter for investors . 
. 
But some bond market analysts said that could quickly change if property casualty insurance companies scramble to sell portions of their municipal portfolios to raise cash to pay damage claims . 
if property casualty insurance companies scramble to sell portions of their municipal portfolios to raise cash to pay damage claims . 
He also expects the performance of municipals to lag Treasurys as California is forced to issue new debt over time to repair public facilities . 
as California is forced to issue new debt over time to repair public facilities . 
Meanwhile , some California issues were down a touch more than the broad market , but traders said there had n't been much investor selling because of the quake . 
, but traders said there had n't been much investor selling because of the quake . 
But New York City general obligation bonds came under selling pressure . 
, but no selling materialized . 
But their potential quake exposure is seen as small given that they require a financial cushion on all the loans they purchase . 
And because Northern California home prices are so high , loans from the region often are too large to be included in Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae pools . 
. 
Meanwhile , Government National Mortgage Association 9 % securities for November delivery ended at 97 29\/32 , unchanged . 
as equities there recovered from Tuesday 's drop . 
, while the 12 % notes due 1995 were down 7\/32 to 103 22\/32 to yield 11.04 % . 
and Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson is scheduled to give the annual `` Mansion House '' address to the financial community . 
Meanwhile , Japanese government bonds retreated in quiet trading , stymied by the dollar 's resiliency . 
as the bond market searched for direction . 
But the man who built it has fallen . 
But while it was a move that stunned the East bloc , it hardly ushers in an era of reform -- at least anytime soon . 
. 
Nor is it a Hungary , where yesterday the parliament approved constitutional changes meant to help turn the Communist nation into a multiparty democracy . 
Still , any change in East Germany has enormous implications , for both East and West . 
just minutes after the Party 's 163-member Central Committee convened in East Berlin . 
. 
and his physical condition has been the subject of intense speculation in the Western media . -RRB- 
ADN said Mr. Honecker , a hard-line Stalinist who in 1961 supervised the construction of the Berlin Wall , also was relieved of his title as head of state and his position as chief of the military . 
once the nation 's parliament convenes later this week . 
as thousands of his countrymen , dissatisfied by the harshness of his rule , fled to the West . 
But U.S. officials have strong doubts that he is a reformer . 
Because Mr. Krenz has been very much in accord with the policies of Honecker . '' 
Indeed , Mr. Krenz said on East German television last night that there will be no sharing of power with pro-democracy groups . 
. 
But , with public demonstrations in the country growing in size and intensity , Mr. Honecker and several key allies lost out in this battle , officials say . 
Both men were also relieved of their duties yesterday . 
. 
when World War II ended . 
. 
In fact , the two men have had strikingly similar career paths , both having served as chief of internal security before their rise to the top party position . 
Moreover , both men have hewn to a similar hard-line philosophy . 
He later defended the Chinese government 's response during a separate visit to West Germany . 
However , Mr. Krenz also has a reputation for being politically savvy . 
However , Mr. Krenz also has a reputation for being politically savvy . 
Indeed , according to West German government sources , he was one of the leaders in the power struggle that toppled Mr. Honecker . 
. 
But will it be enough ? 
, so the unrest will go on , '' Mr. Oldenburg predicts . 
but that their interests are being taken seriously . '' 
Chancellor Kohl , meanwhile , has invited Mr. Krenz to open discussions with Bonn on a wide range of subjects . 
, who is said to also suffer from diabetes . 
and we 're experiencing the first step , '' the Bonn official adds . 
The selection of Mr. Krenz may also disappoint Moscow . 
. 
if they did n't . 
But it could ultimately lead to German reunification and the disappearance of East Germany from the map . 
But it could ultimately lead to German reunification and the disappearance of East Germany from the map . 
The less-self-confident Czechoslovaks and Bulgarians , in contrast , declared their intentions to reform , while doing nothing concrete about it . 
, while doing nothing concrete about it . 
and took to insisting instead that each country in the bloc ought to travel its own road . 
But they are stalwart socialists . 
Meanwhile , the man Mr. Krenz replaces has left an indelible mark on East German society . 
Finally , during his first and only state visit to Bonn two years ago , he won some measure of the recognition he had long sought . 
But ultimately he was undone by forces unleashed by his own comrade , Mr. Gorbachev . 
In its annual economic report for 1989-1990 , the commission also projected 1990 gross domestic product growth for the 12 EC members at 3 % . 
However , inflation for 1990 was seen slowing to 4.5 % . 
But Beijing wants to use the base for the People 's Liberation Army after 1997 , when the territory returns to Chinese sovereignty . 
, Kwek Hong Png was also charged with dishonestly receiving S$ 500,000 that had been stolen . 
, but brokers said that the market and CDL shares recovered once it became apparent the charges were limited to the two men personally . 
once it became apparent the charges were limited to the two men personally . 
after a major customer , British Rail , switched to softer tissues for train bathrooms ... . 
and , as a result , the wall `` is in terrible shape . 
and , as a result , the wall `` is in terrible shape . 
. 
He earlier denied the allegations against him in the lawsuit by Norton and GE . 
. 
. 
when the quake struck -- NBC News was unable to get its signal out of San Francisco for the first hour after the quake . 
`` So before I start to be really critical of NBC , I would like to know more about what happened . '' 
. '' 
But that was not the case at NBC News , which has been dogged with the image of not being aggressive on major breaking stories . 
since we 're going to eventually broadcast the World Series , '' said a network spokesman . 
and that circumstances had changed since the December announcement . 
before turning the thrift over to federal regulators . 
, while the year-earlier period included a $ 46 million reserve for real-estate losses . 
. '' 
, after spending an estimated $ 167 million to build an 8.4 % USAir stake for his investment clients . 
, though he has stopped his takeover talk and now commends USAir managers ' `` operating skills . '' 
, though takeover speculators say they were skeptical . 
, '' says a veteran takeover speculator . 
and the stock went to 52 , the market was saying Steinhardt 's presence was n't worth anything , in terms of getting a deal done , '' says a veteran takeover speculator . 
Moreover , unlike Mr. Buffett , who often holds big stakes in companies for years , Mr. Steinhardt has n't in the past done much long-term investing . 
Meanwhile , his big losses , for instance in 1987 's crash , generally have been trading losses . 
So , some see a special irony in the fact that Mr. Steinhardt , the trader , now is encumbered with a massive , illiquid airline holding . 
if the Steinhardt stake was dumped all at once . 
As a result , Mr. Steinhardt must reconcile himself to selling USAir at a loss , or to holding the shares as an old-fashioned investment . 
unless he thinks he has an ace in the hole , '' adds another Steinhardt Partners alumnus . 
, though the carrier wo n't discuss its buy-back program . 
, says Timothy Pettee , a Merrill Lynch analyst . 
But USAir might not want to help Mr. Steinhardt , he adds . 
when Trans World Airlines Chairman Carl Icahn threatened to take over the carrier . 
Mr. Steinhardt also could take that route . 
However , with airline stocks cratering , he might not get a very good price for his shares , traders say . 
. 
, as he bought and sold the company 's stock . 
But of course it would be highly unusual for an investment fund such as Steinhardt Partners to take over a company . 
if it tumbles to 35 . 
But meanwhile , USAir is expected to show losses or lackluster profit for several quarters as it tries to digest Piedmont Airlines , which it acquired . 
But meanwhile , USAir is expected to show losses or lackluster profit for several quarters as it tries to digest Piedmont Airlines , which it acquired . 
as it tries to digest Piedmont Airlines , which it acquired . 
Moreover , some investors think a recession or renewed airfare wars will pummel airline stocks in coming months . 
However , Mr. Steinhardt says he 's `` comfortable holding USAir as an investment . '' 
. 
because the price of Addington 's stock has equaled or exceeded $ 19.60 for 20 consecutive trading days , a condition set in the terms of the debentures . 
because the value of the stock received in a conversion would exceed the $ 1,103.11 redemption price . 
because sales of personal computers for the home market remained weak in some major countries . 
and that the situation could look different by the time final results are announced early next month . 
In fact , Commodore 's fiscal fourth-quarter loss was $ 2 million narrower than Commodore had expected a few weeks after the quarter closed . 
a few weeks after the quarter closed . 
Still , even results approaching break-even would mark a sharp weakening compared with fiscal 1989 first-quarter earnings of $ 9.6 million , or 30 cents a share , on sales of $ 200.2 million . 
, because the loss estimate came after the market closed . 
after the market closed . 
and it has unleashed a slick advertising campaign . 
But those represent long-term strategies that probably wo n't succeed quickly , even if they turn out to be the right ones . 
, even if they turn out to be the right ones . 
In the meantime , the strategies will increase expenses . 
yet has been slow to catch on because it is n't compatible with Apple Computer Inc. or International Business Machines Corp. hardware . 
because it is n't compatible with Apple Computer Inc. or International Business Machines Corp. hardware . 
But sales to consumers have become difficult during the past several months , even in West Germany , which has been by far Commodore 's strongest market . 
even though other low-profit personal computers now operate several times as fast and have much more memory . 
, but market researchers have said that sales of the low-end products may finally be trailing off . 
, as players began to set their sights on events coming later this week . 
before closing with a gain of 4.92 at 2643.65 . 
Broader averages also posted modest gains . 
and the New York Stock Exchange Composite Index gained 0.43 to 189.32 . 
, while 668 declined . 
But the Dow Jones Transportation Average went down for the seventh consecutive session , due largely to further selling in UAL . 
since the losing streak began Oct. 10 . 
In addition , activity at a number of San Francisco-based brokerage houses was curtailed as a result of the earthquake , which knocked out power lines and telephone service throughout the Bay area . 
, and traders said they saw little of the program activity that has battered the market recently . 
as some of the institutions who were spooked last Friday did some selling , '' said Raymond F. DeVoe , a market strategist at Legg Mason Wood Walker , Baltimore . 
as institutions re-evaluate their stance toward the market in light of its decline . 
But those issues recovered quickly and turned higher because of expectations that the quake and the recent Hurricane Hugo would set the stage for an increase in premium rates . 
and Corroon & Black firmed 1 7\/8 to 37 1\/2 . 
and Cigna advanced 7\/8 to 62 1\/2 . 
and Ameron climbed 2 3\/8 to 39 3\/4 . 
and four others rallied on the American Stock Exchange : Jacobs Engineering Group , which gained 1 1\/8 to 25 3\/8 , Greiner Engineering , which rose 3 1\/2 to 22 1\/2 ; Michael Baker , which added 1 1\/4 to 15 1\/4 , and American Science & Engineering , up 1\/2 to 8 1\/2 . 
and Louisiana-Pacific added 1 to 40 3\/4 after Merrill Lynch recommended the forest-products issues . 
after Merrill Lynch recommended the forest-products issues . 
and Eljer Industries rose 1 1\/4 to 24 7\/8 . 
and Pacific Telesis Group slipped 5\/8 to 44 5\/8 as the companies worked to restore service to areas affected by the quake . 
as the companies worked to restore service to areas affected by the quake . 
but added that its refinery in nearby Richmond , Calif. , was undamaged . 
and Wells Fargo lost 1\/2 to 81 1\/2 ; the two bank holding companies , based in San Francisco , were forced to curtail some operations due to the temblor . 
and Golden West Financial fell 5\/8 to 29 1\/4 . 
before closing at 191 3\/4 , down 6 1\/4 , on 2.3 million shares . 
and it was `` in no way committed '' to the completion of a bid . 
Separately , investor Marvin Davis withdrew his backup $ 300-a-share takeover offer . 
by rising 3\/4 to 74 . 
since the financing for the UAL buy-out fell through on Friday and developer Donald Trump subsequently withdrew a takeover offer of $ 120 a share for AMR . 
and developer Donald Trump subsequently withdrew a takeover offer of $ 120 a share for AMR . 
Also , AMR was the most active Big Board issue ; 2.8 million shares changed hands . 
after saying it was comfortable with analysts ' projections that third-quarter net income from continuing operations would be between 95 cents and $ 1.05 a share , up from 69 cents a year ago . 
after its third-quarter results proved disappointing . 
except to say that most , including Philip Morris U.S.A. , Kraft General Foods and Miller Brewing Co. , posted increased revenues . 
Granges said it also plans in the third quarter to write down the carrying value of the Tartan mine by 2.5 million Canadian dollars -LRB- US$ 2.12 million -RRB- , and to write off most of the C$ 6.3 million carrying value of its Windflower gold property in British Columbia . 
, and company officials were n't available . 
if it is to maintain its growth rate of 30 % and more each year . 
In addition , its machines are typically easier to operate , so customers require less assistance from software . 
, so customers require less assistance from software . 
, although some of the decline was caused by discontinued operations . 
Wang had previously forecast a loss . 
, although it expects a profitable fourth quarter . 
and holders give a price in that range at which they 're willing to sell their shares . 
The buyer then picks a price and buys shares at that price from holders who offered to sell at that price or lower . 
The 1988 quarter also included one-time gains totaling about $ 35 million . 
Also participating in the study , Enron said , is the National Power division of Britain 's Central Electricity Generating Board . 
In the year-ago quarter , Viacom also paid preferred stock dividends of $ 17 million ; Viacom exchanged its preferred stock for debt in March . 
Viacom said it also restructured bank debt under a $ 1.5 billion unsecured bank agreement that offers significant interest rate savings . 
, `` but we have agreed to raise the capital that will enable the company to continue operating . 
while they restructure . 
, but that Pathe will take 50 % of Odeon , Rome film producer Bruno Lucisano will take 10 % and the remaining 16.66 % , currently owned by Sasea , will eventually be sold to other investors . 
and the remaining 16.66 % , currently owned by Sasea , will eventually be sold to other investors . 
before the law is passed than to try to buy one afterward , '' Mr. Fiorini said . 
than to try to buy one afterward , '' Mr. Fiorini said . 
and just keeping the public informed has helped to keep the panic down , '' said James Ball , a station supervisor at Daly City Police Department . 
As a result , last March the General Services Administration board of contract appeals directed NASA to reopen negotiations on the contract . 
, but Conrail will continue to take steps to control and reduce costs . '' 
, but it was n't sufficient to offset the drop in sales prices , '' James R. Kuse , the company 's chairman and chief executive officer said in a statement . 
But a secondary agenda among officials in the City of Angels was to learn about the disaster-contingency plans that work and those that do n't . 
, while waiting for federal assistance to arrive . 
. 
And the county of Los Angeles placed its firefighters and sheriffs on alert , ready to send in reinforcements , and alerted San Francisco that the city has 1,000 hospital beds at its disposal . 
, and one Los Angeles bank manager forked over $ 150,000 of his own money for relief purposes , the Red Cross said . 
It is also pulling 20 people out of Puerto Rico , who were helping Huricane Hugo victims , and sending them to San Francisco instead . 
, who were helping Huricane Hugo victims , and sending them to San Francisco instead . 
after trading ended . 
Many South Korean business people want a devaluation instead , arguing that the won 's recent gains already have weakened the country 's export performance . 
Mr. Roh also said South Korea is taking steps that would free the won to respond to market forces . 
Speaking to a joint meeting of Congress earlier , he said South Korea ca n't move quickly on such agricultural trade issues `` without causing political and social trauma . 
But according to Great American , such profits do n't count toward meeting the San Diego savings bank 's new capitalization requirements under 1989 federal law . 
The proposed holding company would also consolidate Great American Bank in San Diego and its Tucson , Ariz. , savings bank into a single , federally chartered institution in San Diego . 
'' and that Sassy needs big promotional dollars to keep it alive . 
But the 57-year-old publisher has moved quickly and boldly to deal with the magazines ' problems . 
. 
and advertising pages have stabilized this year at more than 300 . 
`` But Sassy has a different spirit . It gets more mail in a month than McCall 's got in a year , and it 's not from mothers . 
, and it 's not from mothers . 
, while Citicorp owns the rest through its Citicorp Venture Capital Partners . 
Ms. , but his track record in magazine publishing in general has gotten mixed reviews . 
The magazine Success , however , was for years lackluster and unfocused . 
and its editorial product improved . 
, and Time Warner agreeing to sell back its 50 % interest in Working Woman and Working Mother to Mr. Lang . 
soon after joining forces when he said he would negotiate rates individually with advertisers , a practice common in broadcasting but considered taboo by magazine publishers . 
when he said he would negotiate rates individually with advertisers , a practice common in broadcasting but considered taboo by magazine publishers . 
In addition , McCall 's put in a less than stellar performance . 
, and in the end , one Time executive who asked not to be identified said , `` Frankly , McCall 's and the joint venture were an embarrassment . '' 
, and in the end , one Time executive who asked not to be identified said , `` Frankly , McCall 's and the joint venture were an embarrassment . '' 
right after -LCB- the venture was formed -RCB- , and I do n't think they were comfortable getting into the competitive wars of women 's service magazines . '' 
, and I do n't think they were comfortable getting into the competitive wars of women 's service magazines . '' 
, since about 30 % of its readership is female . 
and I am not ready to do that , '' he said . 
`` Besides , we have enough on our plate . 
, removing the matter from U.K. jurisdiction . 
, but it has surged back to profitability as a result of cost-cutting and shedding of unprofitable operations . 
, but one of the victims , Dorena Bertussi , denounced the ethics panel 's action as `` absurd . '' 
more than a year after Ms. Bertussi filed a complaint , the panel issued a `` letter of reproval '' saying Rep. Bates had admitted conduct that violated a House rule forbidding discrimination against employees on account of their sex . 
The panel also warned Rep. Bates that any further violations `` may result in a recommendation that disciplinary action be considered . '' 
But Ms. Bertussi asked , `` Who in their right mind is going to file another complaint with the Ethics Committee ? '' 
. 
But Farmington , N.M.-based Mesa said the offer was for $ 7 in cash and unspecified StatesWest securities valued at $ 3 a share . 
, while earnings per share rose 16 % to 27.9 pence -LRB- 44 cents -RRB- from 24.1 pence -LRB- 38 cents -RRB- . 
Fleet also noted that , unlike other banking companies in the Northeast , it has been only marginally hurt by nonperforming loans that have resulted from the slumping regional real estate market . 
According to a spokeswoman , they also relate to changes Franklin will have to make in its accounting procedures to comply with new federal capitalization requirements for thrifts . 
It also announced an initial public offering of 18 % of its gas exploration and production subsidiary . 
The redemption then would be at 1.5 % of the total debt , increasing to 2.5 % in February 1991 , and to 3 % at six-month intervals thereafter . 
and that was once represented by Republican U.S. Sen. Trent Lott . 
because many companies were closed yesterday . 
, and no production slowdown was anticipated as long as electricity remains available . 
as long as electricity remains available . 
and no damage estimates were available . 
, but operations were moved to a branch office and are running smoothly thanks to a decentralized computer system the company had developed before the quake . 
and 250 of 750 automatic teller machines were closed in the area . 
, but its computers were knocked out . 
, and the company expects its mainframe to be up in a few days . 
, but the losses are covered by insurance . 
, but structural damage closed two of its seven buildings in San Ramone industrial park . 
Meanwhile , orders are being routed through Kingsford Products unit in Louisville , Ky. , but computer problems mean they must be processed manually . 
Ky. , but computer problems mean they must be processed manually . 
and all 2,500 of its Bay-area workers to be back at work by today . 
, but it was n't clear when the normal 750-car-a-day pace will resume . 
, so orders could be taken . 
and there were no injuries among workers . 
, but that it may reopen today . 
but service should be restored by today . 
and few people were at work yesterday . 
Also closed yesterday were the company 's Santa Teresa software-development lab and the Almaden research center . 
and employees stayed home yesterday to allow crews to clean up . 
at least until roads are cleared . 
It also was n't known what the impact will be on the division 's work , which includes the Navy 's Trident submarine-based missile program and the Air Force 's Strategic Defense Initiative . 
, and no delays in deliveries are expected . 
and only four of its 75 Bay-area stores , all in the Santa Cruz area , were closed . 
while they are inspected for structural damage . 
but workers spent most of yesterday cleaning up . 
, but two workers were injured . 
until it is certain there are no gas leaks , no predictions on when this will happen . 
Firm will not , however , resume 24-hour service until power in city is restored . 
until power in city is restored . 
, but customer service was being maintained . 
and no slowdowns were anticipated . 
as rescue workers began the gruesome task of trying to extract as many as 250 victims from beneath the concrete slabs of the double-deck Nimitz Freeway in Oakland that caved in during Tuesday 's temblor . 
, the Associated Press reported . 
But there are other long-term effects that raise serious questions about the ability of California 's infrastructure to withstand a major temblor . 
before the well-traveled artery that helps connect Oakland with San Francisco is reopened , and the cost to build a new stretch of highway could soar to more than $ 250 million , said Charles J. O'Connell , deputy district director in Los Angeles of the California Department of Transportation , nicknamed Caltrans . 
, and the cost to build a new stretch of highway could soar to more than $ 250 million , said Charles J. O'Connell , deputy district director in Los Angeles of the California Department of Transportation , nicknamed Caltrans . 
, as local politicians spoke yesterday against plans to bring double-decking to Los Angeles freeways by 1994 . 
So why even consider stacking freeways now ? 
L.A. , and the only place to go is up , '' Mr. O'Connell said , although he acknowledges there are many obstacles , including cost . 
, '' Mr. O'Connell said , although he acknowledges there are many obstacles , including cost . 
But as for safety , he says double-deck freeways built today with the heavily reinforced concrete and thicker columns required after the Sylmar quake should withstand a calamitous temblor of 7.5 to 8 on the Richter scale . 
But most structural engineers attributed the destruction to improper reinforcement of the columns that supported the decks , and the fact that the ground beneath the highway is largely landfill and can become unstable , or `` liquefy , '' in a major quake . 
, said Leo Parker , a structural engineer in Los Angeles . 
But in the case of the Nimitz Freeway , the lack of such support caused the core of the columns to crumble and buckle under the weight of the second deck , crushing motorists who were lined up in bumper-to-bumper rush-hour traffic on the lower deck nearly 15 feet below . 
and it was just something the structure could n't withstand . '' 
But only bridges supported with single rows of columns were top priority , and the Nimitz Freeway , supported by double rows , was left out , Mr. Drago explained . 
, and the Nimitz Freeway , supported by double rows , was left out , Mr. Drago explained . 
Lionel also urged holders of its stock and debt not to tender their securities , saying it wants to remain independent to pursue its business strategy . 
Lionel also said the offer by Robert I. Toussie Limited Partnership is inadequate , and full of conditions that leave it `` subject to substantial uncertainty . '' 
In addition , Lionel began a lawsuit in federal District Court in New York seeking to enjoin the offer , alleging , among other things , violations of federal securities law and fraudulent manipulation of the market for Lionel 's securities . 
after his lawyers review it . 
, and no further meetings are scheduled . 
, but the mediator shuttled between the two groups . 
although adjustments within the proposed pay-and-benefit mix are possible . 
, the spokesman conceded , but the majority of the 55,000 Machinists are prepared to `` wait it out as long as it takes . 
, the spokesman conceded , but the majority of the 55,000 Machinists are prepared to `` wait it out as long as it takes . 
as he evaluates the possibility of making a bid for the textile maker . 
, but some seemed designed mostly to project an image of a White House in action . 
after the Exxon Valdez oil tanker split open in Alaskan waters and Hurricane Hugo struck the Carolina coast , and they clearly do n't want a repeat of those charges now . 
and Hurricane Hugo struck the Carolina coast , and they clearly do n't want a repeat of those charges now . 
, and they clearly do n't want a repeat of those charges now . 
So the White House announced that Mr. Bush got his first earthquake briefing of the day at 6:30 a.m. from chief of staff John Sununu . 
but not until after local leaders urged him to do so . 
, while fully diluted earnings per share rose to 29.90 pence -LRB- 47 cents -RRB- from 24.68 pence -LRB- 39 cents -RRB- . 
. 
But the greatest damage was visited on buildings and roadways perched upon landfill , as were the Marina District of San Francisco and the Bay Bridge -- two areas of maximum devastation . 
but it behaves like liquid when you shake it , '' said Douglas Segar , professor of geosciences at San Francisco State University in a televised interview . 
when you shake it , '' said Douglas Segar , professor of geosciences at San Francisco State University in a televised interview . 
if it 's properly compacted . 
But the public policy issues raised by earthquake damage will be difficult to address , Mr. Johnson predicted . 
, leaving a wedge of its third floor open to the air , while piles of dusty bricks tumbled to the street below narrowly missing rush-hour pedestrians and cars . 
And sooner or later , we have to do something about it . '' 
because this week 's earthquake -- while major and followed by hundreds of aftershocks -- did n't release enough pent-up energy tension along the faultlines to preclude more and bigger quakes soon . 
. 
, a Coke spokesman said . 
But now , the soft-drink giant appears willing to take the risk . 
, and they have n't merchandised that name before , '' says Jesse Meyers , publisher of the trade journal Beverage Digest . 
Indeed , analysts have said that the absence of new products , among other factors , has limited sales growth throughout the industry . 
. 
, and residents picked their way through glass-strewn streets . 
. 
and the military was mobilized to prevent looting . 
Fla. , and its crew of five astronauts launched the nuclear-powered Galileo space probe on a flight to the planet Jupiter . 
He also said tragic results could follow any `` hint of weakening '' of the U.S. defense commitment to Seoul . 
, but median family income fell 0.2 % . 
But other nations at the opening of the 49-nation meeting of Britain and its former colonies pressed for continued or stronger embargoes in an effort to end apartheid . 
before agreeing to political changes giving the nation 's Moslems a greater role in Beirut 's government . 
Also , Richard A. Barkley , a former marketing executive with FMC Corp. , was appointed president of Continental Container Systems , a producer of can closing machinery that Figgie acquired late last year . 
But that signal on full-year profit casts doubt on whether Dow will improve on its year-ago fourth-quarter net of $ 3.44 a share , or $ 635 million . 
if it equaled that year-ago fourth-quarter performance . 
even before they announced in July a plan to acquire 67 % of Marion Laboratories Inc . 
? 
. 
. 
But it was Ted Kennedy who scored most effectively with his searing portrayal of `` Robert Bork 's America '' -- the parade of imaginary horribles that would follow logically , he claimed , from the positions Mr. Bork had taken over the space of two decades . 
while remaining rigid in all the others . 
The nomination still might have been salvaged if a number of Democratic moderates in the South and Southwest had broken party lines . 
if a number of Democratic moderates in the South and Southwest had broken party lines . 
But Democratic Sen. Bennett Johnson of Louisiana reminded the little band that anti-Bork blacks and women could furnish the margin to punish them in their next Senate elections . 
Yet with the smooth confirmation of Anthony Kennedy , an `` 80 percenter '' only slightly less supportive of judicial restraint than Mr. Bork , the Democrats may have won the battle but lost the war . 
Another upshot , however , was the chilling message the Bork hearings sent into the judicial culture from which the Supreme Court draws its talent . 
He would discover it also in Alexander Bickel , a subtle constitutional scholar , Mr. Bork 's closest friend at Yale , whose influence on the judge goes well beyond Mr. Bronner 's reporting . 
Still , the long view of Robert Bork as constitutional thinker must be a spotty one . 
if it is to cohere . 
, though a Supreme Court composed of men and women with realism , guts and a sense of limits should be able to manage it . 
. 
. 
At the initial sale last night , for example -- the sale featuring the Impressionists masters -- bids totaled $ 116 million . 
Instead , people familiar with the transaction said , the auction house opted to forgo that percentage in order to obtain the collection and in exchange for taking a bigger chunk of proceeds exceeding $ 100 million . 
. 
Buried in the glossy hardbound catalog for the sale , however , appears the statement , `` Sotheby 's has an interest in the property in this catalog . '' 
, '' said Michael Findlay , Christie 's head of impressionist and modern paintings . 
and their money has helped fuel the art boom , but recently it appears Sotheby 's has been returning the compliment . 
, but recently it appears Sotheby 's has been returning the compliment . 
But two weeks ago , Sotheby 's said that it has the painting under lock and key because the loan had not been fully repaid . 
because the loan had not been fully repaid . 
because it 's an art sellers ' market , at least where the best works are concerned , says Ralph Lerner , an attorney and author of the book `` Art Law . '' 
, but there 's more competition . 
The Dorrance family will still receive a substantial portion of the auction proceeds above $ 100 million , people familiar with the transaction said . 
But it 's likely that Sotheby 's will take a higher than usual commission , called an override , on the amount exceeding the guarantee . 
, since Mr. Dorrance had served as chairman of the Philadelphia Museum of Art , and it had been assumed many of the works would be donated to the institution . 
, and it had been assumed many of the works would be donated to the institution . 
Meanwhile , Sotheby 's guarantee is raising eyebrows in the art world . 
. '' 
For example , an auction house 's comments on the condition of a work of art that is up for sale should be looked at with `` very open eyes , '' he says . 
; it 's that competitive . '' 
because `` Christie 's believes its primary role is as an auction house , and therefore as an agent -LCB- for buyer and seller -RCB- , not as a bank . 
because `` Christie 's believes its primary role is as an auction house , and therefore as an agent -LCB- for buyer and seller -RCB- , not as a bank . 
, and therefore as an agent -LCB- for buyer and seller -RCB- , not as a bank . 
But unlike the other new leaders in the East Bloc , Mr. Krenz will face an immediate threat to his nation 's very existence : German reunification . 
. 
Even if he were to change his stripes and become another Milton Friedman , however , he would still stand a good chance of losing a country . 
But if East Germany 's arthritic Politburo does loosen up enough to permit Mr. Krenz to make serious efforts at reform , he will face a challenge just as fundamental . 
. 
But with world-wide opinion -- even , apparently in Moscow -- against East Germany , the country would have to turn itself into an Albania to clamp down further on refugees . 
But even if he effects a Hyde-to-Jekyll transformation , he will face a serious ideological crisis and Reunification Scenario Two . 
. 
: However flawed and short-lived Joseph Pilsudski 's interwar republic , it was a nonsocialist democracy . 
But East Germany is merely `` the land of truly existing socialism . '' 
. 
, and Germans are an ideological people . 
Ideologues on the other side of the border can also slow the process . 
But within the government and in the think tanks outside it , many West Germans maintain that they do n't want immediate reunification . 
But it would be ironic if Germany 's reunification , just like its division , eventually were the result of actions in centers of power other than Bonn and Berlin . 
if Germany 's reunification , just like its division , eventually were the result of actions in centers of power other than Bonn and Berlin . 
But most businesses in the Bay area , including Silicon Valley , were n't greatly affected . 
Also , investors quickly singled out stocks of companies expected to profit or suffer from the disaster . 
But Secretary Skinner said he would urge Bush to veto the bill . 
after the stock market had closed . 
The British carrier also confirmed it is n't committed to going forward with any new bid . 
as trading slowed , while bonds ended little changed despite a slumping dollar . 
, while bonds ended little changed despite a slumping dollar . 
But investors remain wary about stocks , partly because of turmoil in the junk-bond market . 
, but most foreign-exchange dealers said they expect the impact of the quake on financial markets to be short-lived . 
. 
The Fed did , in fact , execute $ 1.5 billion of liquidity-enhancing customer repurchase agreements , the third set of repurchase orders in three days . 
Indeed , the U.S. unit edged lower as the Dow Jones Industrial Average dropped about 13 points in early trading . 
as the Dow Jones Industrial Average dropped about 13 points in early trading . 
before the unit dropped back by day 's end . 
. 
, but the rise quickly fizzled when it became apparent that oil operations were n't severely curtailed . 
when it became apparent that oil operations were n't severely curtailed . 
because the gasoline market is so tight . 
But yesterday , as the morning wore on , some major West Coast refinery operators -- including Chevron Corp. , Exxon Corp. and the Shell Oil Co. unit of Royal Dutch\/Shell Group -- said their refineries were n't damaged and were continuing to operate normally . 
. 
Gasoline terminals were also largely unhurt , they said . 
, ending the day at $ 20.56 a barrel , down 19 cents . 
But once that factor was eliminated , traders took profits and focused on crude oil inventories , Mr. Barakat said . 
, Mr. Barakat said . 
. 
But some market players still think earthquake speculation could have more impact on the oil markets . 
. '' 
since it was declared bankrupt by the Mexican government in late August , are set to return to work . 
before the mine begins to produce copper in significant quantities . 
. 
Nevertheless , the increasing likelihood that these two major supply disruptions will be resolved weighed on the market , the analysts agreed . 
, but that this purchasing has since slackened as the supply situation , at least over the long term , appears to have improved . 
as the supply situation , at least over the long term , appears to have improved . 
, and good demand has been taken for granted , '' he said . 
. '' 
, and the expectation that they will come in is apparently giving the market its principal support , '' the dealer said . 
, so a drop indicates that the production of beef will dip this winter . 
Indeed , some analysts expect the government to report that the movement of young cattle onto feedlots in the month of September in seven big ranch states dropped 8 % compared with the level for September 1988 . 
, and its long-term effects are unknown . 
But researchers say the drug , called FK-506 , could revolutionize the transplantation field by reducing harmful side effects and by lowering rejection rates . 
, because it 's worked so fast , '' said Dr. Thomas E. Starzl , director of the University of Pittsburgh Transplantation Program , at a news conference here yesterday . 
They are also encouraged by the relatively mild side effects of FK-506 , compared with cyclosporine , which can cause renal failure , morbidity , nausea and other problems . 
, and that the FDA approval process usually takes three years to five years . 
when it reaches the market , but they said FK-506 will enable patients to cut hospital stays by 50 % and reduce the number of blood tests used to monitor the dosage of cyclosporine and other drugs among transplant recipients . 
, but they said FK-506 will enable patients to cut hospital stays by 50 % and reduce the number of blood tests used to monitor the dosage of cyclosporine and other drugs among transplant recipients . 
, and that Fujisawa did n't give the hospital any grants . 
, and our advice to our people has been not to buy the company 's stock , '' Dr. Starzl said , adding that profiting from FK-506 would n't be ethical . 
when income redistribution `` threatens to hit home . '' 
Yet in Mr. Laband 's rehash of free-market logic , human greed and self-interest are the only permissible psychological reactions . 
Allowing uncontrolled prices for necessities would indeed shorten the lines at stores , as he contends . 
But not because resources are going to their most efficient use , leaving scarce goods `` allocated to those buyers who place the highest value on them . '' Rather , lines would diminish because at higher prices many victims could not afford necessities such as food and medical supplies . 
But not because resources are going to their most efficient use , leaving scarce goods `` allocated to those buyers who place the highest value on them . '' 
Rather , lines would diminish because at higher prices many victims could not afford necessities such as food and medical supplies . 
because at higher prices many victims could not afford necessities such as food and medical supplies . 
because she does not have as much to protect as a rich family . 
Moreover , essential relief supplies such as ice must be distributed throughout the population because of potential health problems from spoiled food and possible outbreak of disease . 
, if they ever expect to face the people of South Carolina again . 
Mr. Laband , meanwhile , gets an A for his rote recital of economic-efficiency arguments . 
, and then try to reason from them . 
, since that behavior can also be foreseen in a disaster and `` every individual has an incentive to alter the distribution of income in his favor . '' 
and `` every individual has an incentive to alter the distribution of income in his favor . '' 
'' because price gouging in this situation is equivalent to looting . 
when dealing with disasters such as Hugo -- anti-profiteering ordinances such as that by the Charleston City Council as it thrashed about trying to Do Something . 
. 
Also , rather than increase supplies , they reduce them and encourage hoarding . 
And they , or even the prospect of them , discourage disaster preparedness in the form of speculative advance stocking of supplies by merchants . 
because they interfere with his concept of the `` free market '' ? 
Maybe he thinks they should also sell to the highest bidder . 
And what about insurance firms ? 
, since he lives in South Carolina . 
when normalcy returns . 
. 
Revivals of a different sort also are being offered by our two major theater troupes , the Goodman and Steppenwolf . 
, but both help explain why Chicago remains a vital center of this country 's regional theater movement . 
Otherwise , the scene remained Celimene 's house in 1666 . 
if you ever have the opportunity . 
But if you happen to be coming to Chicago in the next few weeks , do n't fail to have a look at Robert Falls 's `` The Misanthrope '' at the Goodman . 
. 
. 
who might stay away from the classical version , then Messrs. Bartlett and Falls are justified in abandoning Mr. Wilbur . 
. 
, and nobody in the audience was encouraged to laugh . 
Also , it was not a funny time over here , what with the Vietnam War , the '68 Democratic convention , assassinations and riots . 
But under Jerry Perry 's direction the current Steppenwolf production , scheduled to play through Nov. 19 , breaks through the flat and boring ritual that `` The Homecoming '' had become . 
before the end of the first act . 
. 
. 
. '' 
and he is just beginning to massage local foundations and corporations . 
But Welles 's theater company turned out to have a brief -- one might say a mercurial -- existence . 
if the allure of Hollywood and Broadway proves too much for such Steppenwolf stalwarts as John Malkovich -LRB- `` Dangerous Liaisons '' -RRB- , Joan Allen -LRB- `` The Heidi Chronicles '' -RRB- , and Glenne Headly -LRB- `` Lonesome Dove '' -RRB- , and the company crumbles ? 
. 
, while the Dow Jones Industrial Average was up 0.2 % . 
. 
. 
as investors tried to figure out how to assess the impact of the property damage and deaths on those concerns . 
Then , if the stocks fell sharply , he planned to begin buying them aggressively , on the theory that the companies that insure against property damage and accidents will have to raise rates eventually to compensate for the claims they will pay to earthquake victims and victims of last month 's Hurricane Hugo . 
, on the theory that the companies that insure against property damage and accidents will have to raise rates eventually to compensate for the claims they will pay to earthquake victims and victims of last month 's Hurricane Hugo . 
As well , reinsurers and insurance brokerage companies will have improved profits . 
But Mr. Gilmartin said the hurricane damage was n't extensive enough to prompt premium boosts . 
and that means rate increases . '' 
Overall OTC insurance issues were mixed . 
; but volume totaled 1.2 million shares . 
, while the barometer of big insurance and banking issues climbed 1.72 to 455.29 . 
But most of those stocks fared well . 
Intel also added 3\/8 to 33 7\/8 . 
But Sun Microsystems slipped 1\/4 to 17 1\/4 . 
Shares of biotechnology companies in the area were also higher . 
and Cetus gained 1\/2 to 16 3\/8 . 
and Lotus Development added 1 1\/4 to 32 1\/2 . 
and its positions were frozen for the day by the National Association of Securities Dealers . 
after reporting a loss for the first quarter , which ended Sept. 30 . 
The companies earlier said they did n't want to raise their offer to match a rival bid by Institut Merieux S.A. of C$ 37 a share , or C$ 942 million . 
But they said the C$ 30-a-share bid , which was due to expire Monday , may still be extended or varied . 
, may still be extended or varied . 
. 
after it passed the House overwhelmingly earlier in the month . 
But he knows that as many as 20 of his fellow Democrats are disposed to vote for the cut , popular among their constituents . 
As a result , he took the lead in arguing that the cut should be blocked on procedural grounds . 
, and these Senate Democrats refused to agree to allow a vote to append capital gains to the budget bill , knowing it would pass . 
, or it could follow the White House strategy , to veto reconciliation unless capital gains was appended . 
unless capital gains was appended . 
unless it had firm assurances that a vote on substance would be permitted in the Senate . 
It was the Senate Republicans , though , who had edged away from the veto strategy . 
as it absorbed the news that Mr. Darman 's strategy had been abandoned . 
? 
if the government suddenly announced that if you sold it , you would be able to keep 30 % more of its gain than you previously believed ? 
? 
Indeed , the stock market 's steady advance this year tracked with President Bush 's success in advancing his capital-gains proposal . 
. 
Instead , the press corps readily accepted the notion that a snag in the takeover financing of United Airlines instantly knocked 7 % off the value of the nation 's capital stock and caused convulsions around the world . 
while conventional wisdom had fastened on the UAL flea . 
Yet they somehow think that Wall Street is indifferent to losing the tax cut that seemed so close Friday morning and is now problematic . 
, he thinks , when the White House is forced to ask for higher taxes to meet budget targets . 
, and political realities will push up income-tax rates . 
. 
. 
If Sen. Bradley would permit a vote on capital gains , though , it would pass , Christmas retail sales would be strong instead of burdened by a falling stock market , the 1990 economy would be robust , and the revenue gains at every level of government , including New Jersey 's , would be surprisingly high . 
, and the revenue gains at every level of government , including New Jersey 's , would be surprisingly high . 
, and charges against the third were dropped . 
Otherwise , actual profit is compared with the 300-day estimate . 
The $ 4 billion bond issue also will help the TVA meet its goal of not raising rates for another year , said William F. Malec , the agency 's chief financial officer . 
But the offering almost did n't happen . 
The TVA , in fact , decided to proceed with the bond offering following an agreement last week with the Financing Bank , which allows TVA to keep borrowing short term from the bank for two years after it goes to the public market . 
after it goes to the public market . 
Because he 's very bullish on the emerging growth stocks that make up the fund 's portfolio , Mr. Templeton said from his Bahamas hideaway . 
, '' he said , and their prices often trail the market as a whole . 
, but still proved slightly profitable . 
In addition , Mr. Templeton received a dividend of 22 cents a share Oct. 5 . 
when asked about the sales . 
He still has 1,143 shares , according to SEC files . 
Mr. Toney also declined to comment . 
Mr. Taft , who is also president of Taft Broadcasting Co. , said he bought the shares because he keeps a utility account at the brokerage firm of Salomon Brothers Inc. , which had recommended the stock as a good buy . 
because he keeps a utility account at the brokerage firm of Salomon Brothers Inc. , which had recommended the stock as a good buy . 
, '' Mr. Taft said , and utilities are `` a good investment because interest rates are going down . '' 
because interest rates are going down . '' 
after installing Burlington carpets in their office . 
In addition , they said that months of exposure to the chemicals has left them sensitive to a wide range of commonly used substances . 
because attorneys anticipate increasing litigation nationally over the so-called sick-building syndrome . 
'' when inadequate fresh air and poor ventilation systems lead pollutants to build up inside . 
but that the Beebes ' symptoms appeared months later . 
and much of that research was unavailable when the Beebes filed the case , she said . 
when the Beebes filed the case , she said . 
But the Beebes did n't come to that conclusion until time limits had elapsed for adding the adhesives maker as a defendant in the case , Ms. Adams said . 
until time limits had elapsed for adding the adhesives maker as a defendant in the case , Ms. Adams said . 
But developers of four planned office towers cautioned that obstacles still remain . 
while there was `` significant litigation '' pending . 
before putting up a $ 155 million letter of credit to cover condemnation costs . 
Also , he said , the partnership is waiting to see whether the appellate division 's ruling will be appealed . 
However , Judge Weinstein wrote in his opinion late last month that terrorism and acts of war against civilians can not be defined as political acts . 
Judge Weinstein also ruled that judges must consider prior to extradition whether the defendant will be treated fairly in a foreign court . 
But one far-afield effect is still with us . 
U.S. oil supplies , however , had peaked in 1970 and 1971 and by 1973 were declining . 
But Middle East supplies were growing in importance . 
. 
But car-happy Americans panicked , and so did the U.S. and other oil-consuming governments . 
, and so did the U.S. and other oil-consuming governments . 
, although neither really applied . 
-RRB- , though that was cold comfort for drivers waiting in mile-long lines at the gas pumps . 
, but the price hikes became a fact of life . 
, but a few bosses are making as much as ever -- or more . 
At Bear Stearns Cos. , for example , the 15 executive officers led by Chairman Alan `` Ace '' Greenberg got a pay increase to $ 35.9 million for the 14-month period ended June 30 from $ 22.9 million for the 12 months ended April 30 , 1988 . 
. 
because Bear Stearns changed to a fiscal year ending in June instead of April . 
Meanwhile , Bear Stearns 's 650 stock and bond salesmen saw thinner paychecks over the past year , which the company says reflected lower commission revenue caused by a decline in investor activity in the markets . 
However , Bear Stearns on Monday reported improved earnings for its first quarter , ended Sept. 29 , partly because of a 31 % increase in commissions during the quarter . 
-- and that 's pretty low as far as Wall Street goes , '' Mr. Montgoris said . 
However , Bear Stearns has never had an unprofitable year since its founding 65 years ago . 
; and two executive vice presidents , Vincent J. Mattone , 44 , and William J. Michaelcheck , 42 , made about $ 3.3 million each . 
, '' he said . 
, but he added that the merchant bank 's strategic focus remains unchanged . 
, a few months after the resignations of former Chief Executive Christopher Reeves and other top officials because of the merchant bank 's role in Guinness PLC 's controversial takeover of Distiller 's Co. in 1986 . 
The merchant bank also announced that finance director David Eward is taking early retirement for personal reasons . 
one day after Morgan said that Christopher Whittington resigned as chairman of Morgan 's banking subsidiary to join a financial services firm . 
, but Mr. Craven had persuaded them to remain until the bank was in a healthy position . 
until the bank was in a healthy position . 
. '' 
, and a double-A-plus rating is expected from S&P , the underwriter said . 
Par also said it was advised by the U.S. attorney for Maryland that it is one of a number of companies being investigated by a federal grand jury for alleged violations of the federal Food , Drug and Cosmetic Act . 
The spokesman said he also understood that the inquiry related to the existence of an `` off-the-record '' production book . 
Also yesterday , Ashok Patel , a former Par official who pleaded guilty to providing an FDA employee an illegal gratuity of $ 3,000 , was sentenced by a federal judge in Baltimore to one year of community service and a $ 150,000 fine . 
Mr. Patel also was placed on three years ' probation . 
, and we think he deserves as much support as he can get . 
. 
-- and they ca n't -- let the computers do it . 
-LRB- Indeed without earlier manipulations , the current sequester of $ 16 billion would have been even larger . -RRB- 
Consider , for instance , that even yesterday 's widely publicized sequester is likely to be traduced if business as usual is allowed to prevail . 
if business as usual is allowed to prevail . 
`` Lawmakers have been saying for weeks that they plan to roll back the cuts as soon as they agree to a compromise on a deficit-cutting bill . '' 
as soon as they agree to a compromise on a deficit-cutting bill . '' 
if he let the Washington elites who manipulate these budgets -- the bureaucrats , the lobbyists , the congressional staffers -- live for just one year on a restricted diet . 
. 
All this stuff still is in the House 's 1,878-page reconciliation bill , and many Members say they 're reluctant to pull out cherished bills , just to see them die . 
, and many Members say they 're reluctant to pull out cherished bills , just to see them die . 
or that the desperately poor were cared for . 
Nor do we see any reason to believe that a metropolitan Washington that has gotten fat and rich and lazy in the shadow of the federal colossus will change much on its own initiative . 
, and let Washington scream . 
But analysts said the rebound did n't remove the cautious mood from the market . 
as an opening rally was obliterated by worse-than-expected U.S. trade figures . 
, but most other European bourses posted gains , as did all major Asian and Pacific stock markets . 
but later joined in the buying . 
But even though Tokyo appears unharmed by recent market volatility , analysts and traders say there are still a few concerns on the horizon . 
. 
In particular , Japanese investors will be keeping a wary eye on Wall Street to see whether Monday 's 88.12-point rally holds up as fresh U.S. economic data are released . 
as fresh U.S. economic data are released . 
They also are concerned about the persistent strength of the dollar against the yen , as a weaker yen leads to higher import prices in Japan and adds to domestic inflationary pressures . 
, as a weaker yen leads to higher import prices in Japan and adds to domestic inflationary pressures . 
Currency concerns also weigh heavily on interest rate-sensitive stocks such as banking and other financial issues because of fears that Japanese interest rates might have to rise to keep the dollar in check . 
, and Nippon Steel gained 17 to 735 . 
, and Mitsubishi Estate gained 80 to 2,360 . 
But the advance faltered as index-options traders and investors jittery about the U.K. economic outlook took over . 
as index-options traders and investors jittery about the U.K. economic outlook took over . 
, and if you sold , you wish you had n't . '' 
, and if you sold , you wish you had n't . '' 
. '' 
, and the sentiment in London is 90 % anxiety and worry . '' 
after Wall Street avoided sharp losses despite the trade report , but a wave of futures-related selling later in the session sent buyers back to the sidelines . 
, but a wave of futures-related selling later in the session sent buyers back to the sidelines . 
Still , some sectors found buying interest after being actively sold in recent weeks . 
after being actively sold in recent weeks . 
, and Schroders rose 25 to # 12.75 . 
before easing to close at 654 , up 6 . 
, but most ended below their peaks . 
, and Scottish & Newcastle dropped 11 to 359 , but Whitbread Class A shares rose 17 to 363 . 
, but Whitbread Class A shares rose 17 to 363 . 
, and British Telecom was 4 lower at 261 on turnover of 10 million shares . 
Also in active trading , British Steel fell 1 to 124 as 20 million shares changed hands . 
as 20 million shares changed hands . 
, and most Brussels shares were unable to trade for a second consecutive day because of technical problems . 
But while they want to be on the alert for similar buying opportunities now , they 're afraid of being hammered by another terrifying plunge . 
. 
and simultaneously buying a put option on that stock . 
. 
But most investment advisers do n't recommend using married puts all the time . 
because the cost of buying put options eats into an investor 's profit when stock prices rise . 
when stock prices rise . 
when the nearby woods are on fire , '' says Mr. Roth . 
, but you do n't always feel the need for your investments to be insured . '' 
. 
, '' and this loss will reduce the stock-market profit . 
. 
. 
. 
. 
and simultaneously sells the put at a profit . 
Or , the investor can exercise the put , by tendering the stock to his or her broker in return for payment from another investor who has sold a put on the same stock . 
For example , Tenneco Inc. pays a quarterly dividend of 76 cents , which would be received before the February option expires and , thus , reduce the cost of using the technique by that amount . 
before the February option expires and , thus , reduce the cost of using the technique by that amount . 
and , thus , reduce the cost of using the technique by that amount . 
But some investors might prefer a simpler strategy then hedging their individual holdings . 
For instance , the most popular index option is the S&P 100 option , commonly called the OEX . 
, and no stock is ever tendered . 
But while index options are convenient , they have several disadvantages . 
. 
As a result , the OEX insurance may or may not fully protect an investor 's holdings in the event of a market decline . 
In addition , OEX options were suspended from trading last Friday afternoon , after the stock-market sell-off got under way and trading in the S&P-500 futures contract was halted . So an investor who wanted to realize a profit on OEX puts after the trading suspension would have been out of luck . 
, after the stock-market sell-off got under way and trading in the S&P-500 futures contract was halted . 
and trading in the S&P-500 futures contract was halted . 
So an investor who wanted to realize a profit on OEX puts after the trading suspension would have been out of luck . 
after the trading suspension would have been out of luck . 
On the other hand , only a handful of individual issues were suspended from trading on Friday . 
. 
, the options on those investments also do n't trade . 
But it still might be cheaper than taking a major hit . 
, except that it gives its owner the right to buy shares at a stated price until expiration . 
because it reduces the cost of the stock by the amount of premium received from the sale of the call . 
But if the price of the stock rises above the strike price of the option , the stock is almost certain to be called away . And in that case , the investor misses out on any major upside gain . 
. 
And in that case , the investor misses out on any major upside gain . 
as efforts to streamline the House version in advance of a House-Senate conference broke down . 
before the negotiations with the Senate began . 
But the effort became snagged on the question of what would become of other issues , ranging from cutting the capital-gains tax to child care to repeal of catastrophic-illness insurance . 
. '' 
unless the House drops many of its costly provisions . 
, but Speaker Foley said that was n't likely . 
before the cuts can be restored . 
ABM will also increase its stake in Sonora Gold Corp. to 42 % from 26 % . 
, while imports rose to a record . 
since the dollar troughed out in 1987 , '' said Geoffrey Dennis , chief international economist at James Capel Inc . 
; but he said , `` It indicates perhaps that the balance in the U.S. economy is not as good as we 've been led to believe . '' 
after the report 's release , before recovering to close 18.65 points lower at 2638.73 . 
, before recovering to close 18.65 points lower at 2638.73 . 
In 1987 , however , the news was the latest in a string of disappointments on trade , while the current report comes after a period of improvement . 
, while the current report comes after a period of improvement . 
And White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said the deficit was `` an unwelcome increase , '' adding that `` we 're hopeful that it simply is a one-month situation and will turn around . '' 
But the figures reinforced the view of many private analysts that the improvement in the U.S. trade deficit has run out of steam . 
`` That 's still an improvement over last year , but it leads one to conclude that basically we 've gotten all the mileage we can out of past dollar depreciation and past marginal cuts in the federal budget deficit . '' 
, but it leads one to conclude that basically we 've gotten all the mileage we can out of past dollar depreciation and past marginal cuts in the federal budget deficit . '' 
Imports , on the other hand , leaped 6.4 % to a record $ 41.18 billion . 
, but the government revised the July figure substantially from the $ 7.58 billion deficit it had initially reported last month . 
before further trade improvement can occur . 
because the budget deficit feeds an enormous appetite in this country for both foreign goods and foreign capital , overwhelming the nation 's capacity to export . 
, but the imbalances are still there and they are still a problem , '' said Mr. Robertson . 
and they are still a problem , '' said Mr. Robertson . 
In addition , the rise in the value of the dollar against foreign currencies over the past several months has increased the price of U.S. products in overseas markets and hurt the country 's competitiveness . 
But they foresee little substantial progress in exports unless the dollar and the federal budget deficit come down . 
unless the dollar and the federal budget deficit come down . 
, if the buyer chooses a hard-disk drive as an alternative to Next 's optical-storage device . 
The hard drive , which is the storage device of choice for virtually every desktop computer user , also now will supplement Next 's futuristic optical device if buyers pay full price . 
if buyers pay full price . 
But the computer was proving a hard sell because of its high price , a lack of software and an optical data-storage device that was too slow . 
However , most universities that have bought the machines say they are buying small numbers for evaluation purposes . 
, but from now on Next will outfit every computer with a hard drive and supply one at no cost to those who have already bought Next machines . 
But the technology , while reliable , is far slower than the widely used hard drives . 
. 
, but he depends on outside suppliers for the devices . 
But university computer specialists , who welcomed the move , called it a necessary retreat from the cutting edge of technology and one that 's likely to increase Next 's sales on campuses . 
`` But it will definitely boost Next 's sales . '' 
Universities , however , say Next 's prices must go even lower before large numbers of students purchase the machine . 
before large numbers of students purchase the machine . 
Broad acceptance of Next 's computer also is hindered by difficulty in distributing software for it . 
, but the Next computer does n't come with a device that reads them . 
Next 's computer also needs more software applications , but Mr. Jobs said he expects more soon . 
, but Mr. Jobs said he expects more soon . 
, but analysts said they saw ominous hints of a further delay in volume shipments of Version 1.1 , a harbinger of continued losses in the fourth quarter . 
And while the company has n't made a definite statement , it now looks like that 's not going to be anytime soon , '' Mr. Maxwell said . 
, '' Mr. Maxwell said . 
. '' 
, he said . 
, while Israel Sheinberg resigned as a director . 
In addition , the agreement calls for Gilbert H. Lamphere , chairman of Prospect Group 's executive committee , to be named chairman of a restructured board that will include four new independent directors . 
Also named to the revised board was Thomas A. Loose , Recognition 's senior vice president and general counsel . 
Prospect , a New York-based leveraged buy-out firm , also agreed to invest $ 15 million in Recognition , which in turn agreed to repurchase as much as $ 20 million of its stock . 
, which in turn agreed to repurchase as much as $ 20 million of its stock . 
Recognition also said it obtained a commitment from Chemical Bank and Bank of Boston to convert an estimated $ 18 million in bank debt to a new , 24-month secured term loan to be repaid through the sale of certain assets . 
, but sales of the vehicles are off 9.6 % for the year , and fell a steep 34 % during early October . 
. 
It also asked Mesa to keep the proposal confidential . 
Roderick D. Reed III , who was also chief operating officer of FirstSouth , could receive a maximum sentence of five years in federal prison and a $ 250,000 fine . 
FirstSouth 's former chairman and chief executive officer , Howard Weichern , is also charged with conspiring to conceal the agreements with Messrs. Watson and Taylor . 
I had underestimated , however , both Mr. Gelbart 's wit and the persistence of scandal in Washington . 
. 
In fact , at one point Merry Chase -LRB- Melinda Mullins -RRB- , a cool , carefully coiffed television announcer , recites a list of a dozen or more scandals of recent years , concluding with those affecting the Department of Housing and Urban Development and the savings and loan industry . 
, but the proceedings are shown on monitors throughout the theater . 
. 
, but before it can , a lowly IRS agent is called into the hospital room of Wylie Slaughter , the dying head of the Central Intelligence Agency . 
. 
; and Ann McDonough is first-rate as a succession of witnesses ' wives . 
, and as the vice president 's wife she rushes in with white hair , wearing a tailored suit and pearls , imitating Barbara Bush 's gestures down to the last detail . 
. 
, it 's also true that he is evenhanded in dispensing his satirical jabs , taking sharp aim at senators and congressmen of all stripes and particularly at the media . 
Mr. Gelbart also has fun with language . 
, '' and Mr. Gelbart plays that game as well as anyone . 
This interest in words goes beyond puns and playfulness , however . 
. '' 
-- but even so , as the play progresses the thrust of Mr. Gelbart 's satire loses its sharpness as his targets pop up ever more predictably . 
as his targets pop up ever more predictably . 
as his targets pop up ever more predictably . 
Most of the evening , though , is filled with rare and welcome wit . 
Fannie Mae also said James A. Aliber , chairman of First Federal of Michigan and a director since 1985 , moved up the date of his retirement from the board to accommodate Mr. Johnson 's election as a director . 
, and Susan Gutfreund used to turn off its light , to give the impression that there was no higher floor . 
Then the Gutfreunds determined to put up a 22-foot Christmas tree , weighing a quarter of a ton , to amaze their holiday guests . 
But the Gutfreund workers went ahead anyway , only to be captured `` in flagrante '' by Joan Postel , who called the police . 
. 
Bros. when he was still a bearded liberal , and put to work as a trader , and then as a rough-and-tumble syndicator . 
, though his new wife , Susan , made him shine in the gossip columns with her profligate spending habits and flamboyant frocks . 
. 
and who had hoped it would be there forever , was not consulted . 
, while Billy Salomon got $ 10 million , much less than if he had conducted the sale . 
`` I felt betrayed , '' he later said . 
The book also recounts the not dissimilar maneuvers surrounding the changing of the guard at Lehman Bros. and other grand old firms . 
, '' the authors say of Lehman 's Lewis Glucksman . 
and his pale-blue eyes narrowed into tiny slits , '' the authors say of Lehman 's Lewis Glucksman . 
But in the harsh world of today 's Wall Street they have lost out to more aggressive and sometimes less scrupulous successors . 
But the old guard hired the New Crowd people : It brought in its own cuckoos . 
So , as the Old Crowd toppled from the branch , it should n't have been too surprised . 
. 
The old guard had every right , however , to disdain the newcomers ' new ways of making money , such as greenmail . 
when the stock price drops temporarily : It will bounce back . 
But if a raider takes over when the stock is weak , the shareholder never gets his recovery . 
. 
when the stock is weak , the shareholder never gets his recovery . 
The raiders , meanwhile , have evolved their own pattern for spending their new millions . 
However , on balance , the charity game helps America . 
, then City Hall will do it , badly . 
had previously contained commodity operators Marc Rich and `` Pinky '' Green , today fugitives from a potential century apiece of jail sentences . 
However , the phenomenon is not specifically Jewish . 
, and that a few will cut corners in the process . 
, perhaps to be displaced in turn by a later flock of unscrupulous raptors . 
Or perhaps Wall Street , when it has suffered enough , will realize that finance is a service industry , and change its ethos . 
, and change its ethos . 
because `` the defense industry seems to be getting more uncertain . '' 
Instead , Valhi said , they may increase , decrease or retain their Lockheed holdings , depending on a number of conditions . 
while U.S. imports from Canada rose only 2.7 % . 
As a result , Canada 's trade surplus with the U.S. narrowed to C$ 656.5 million -LRB- US$ 558 million -RRB- in August from C$ 1.23 billion -LRB- US$ 1.04 billion -RRB- in July . 
when the trade pact took effect Jan. 1 . 
The Canadian government also has recently opened new trade offices in San Diego ; San Juan , Puerto Rico ; Miami ; Princeton , N.J. , and Denver , bringing the total number of such Canadian offices in the U.S. to 27 . 
, and Crown Resources is based in Denver . 
The bank holding company also reported that third-quarter profit dropped 41 % , to $ 42.7 million , or 61 cents a share , from the year-earlier $ 72.3 million , or $ 1.04 a share . 
. 
And he indicated that more substantial improvement is expected in the next couple of quarters . 
, while imports from Japan rose to 323,000 tons from 288,000 in July . 
. ' '' 
, or if it will at all , are still matters of debate . 
How soon Wang will stage a comeback , or if it will at all , are still matters of debate . 
But Wang salespeople are trying to cope with the biggest challenge any marketer can face : selling the products of a company that is on the ropes . 
, '' says Mary Ann Cluggish , a Wellesley , Mass. , sales trainer and consultant who works with high technology companies . 
and you 're not feeling as if you 're backed up by a stable company , you 've lost it before you 've begun , '' says Mary Ann Cluggish , a Wellesley , Mass. , sales trainer and consultant who works with high technology companies . 
before you 've begun , '' says Mary Ann Cluggish , a Wellesley , Mass. , sales trainer and consultant who works with high technology companies . 
when the car was tainted by false charges of sudden acceleration , or Exxon dealers ' problems in the wake of the Valdez oil spill . 
, even though within the family we know there 's a lot of hard work ahead , '' said Richard Miller , the Lowell , Mass. , computer concern 's new president , in a video message to salespeople a month after he took over . 
a month after he took over . 
, and it suffered huge losses when sales turned down instead of rising . 
when sales turned down instead of rising . 
? '' 
? '' and `` Is Wang still a viable company ? '' 
Moreover , he notes that analyzing financial results `` poses a problem for a salesman who is n't particularly familiar with a balance sheet . '' 
Instead , he says , if the salespeople can get the customers to consider Wang 's products on their merits , he or a top financial officer will try to assuage the fears about finances . 
. 
, but very few have had losses comparable to Wang 's or are carrying such a large debt load . 
. 
, '' says George Palmatier , a Minden , Nev. , sales consultant and author of `` The Marketing Edge . '' 
Still , says John Sullivan , a management recruiter with Daniel Roberts Inc. of Boston , who has held senior sales positions at Polaroid and Atari : `` The customer will react to strength . 
But `` their present financial condition means I 'd have a hard time convincing the vice president in charge of purchasing . '' 
, but they 've come a long way , '' says Steven Wendler , a consultant with market researcher Gartner Group , Stamford , Conn . 
until this bad quarter happened . '' 
, and many of those customers remain extremely loyal . 
But even before Wang 's latest financial troubles surfaced , some customers `` were trying to wall off their Wang installations '' so other departments would n't add Wang , says Chris Christiansen , a former Wang marketer who is now a market analyst with Meta Group , a market research firm in Stamford , Conn . 
, says Chris Christiansen , a former Wang marketer who is now a market analyst with Meta Group , a market research firm in Stamford , Conn . 
'' so other departments would n't add Wang , says Chris Christiansen , a former Wang marketer who is now a market analyst with Meta Group , a market research firm in Stamford , Conn . 
, '' but `` those allies became skeptical as they saw the downtrend . 
One Wang salesman who left the company in July recalls that when he tried to sell products to Eastman Kodak , he worked `` to muster support from internal allies , '' but `` those allies became skeptical as they saw the downtrend . The more recent losses were really devastating . '' 
as they saw the downtrend . 
But salespeople often found that news of Wang 's problems superseded their sales efforts . 
. '' 
. '' 
when you ca n't . 
, '' says Mike Durcan , a laid-off sales manager in Wang 's Austin office . 
So , he advises , make goals achievable . 
For instance , he suggests that salespeople making telephone calls should say to themselves : `` All I want to do today is get 50 rejections . '' 
But Mr. Miller , Wang 's new president , recently warned his salespeople about negativism . 
but profits from telecommunications products and electrical products were flat . 
, but operating profit was unchanged at $ 26.3 million , partly because of start-up expenses . 
, while operating margins rose to 16.1 % from 15.9 % the previous quarter and 12.6 % a year ago . 
and that we can control costs and thus improve profitability . '' 
and thus improve profitability . '' 
, and also said its Southwestern Bell Mobile Systems unit added 30,000 new customers , with a current total of about 333,000 . 
For the year , however , access lines in service have increased 5.5 % . 
while steadily increasing net . 
after reviewing its loan portfolio , raising its total loan and real estate reserves to $ 217 million . 
, and it posted a $ 7.6 million reduction in expected mortgage servicing fees , reflecting the fact that more borrowers are prepaying their mortgages . 
and takeover stock speculators wanted his scalp , Messrs. Wolf and Pope saw their prospective personal fortunes continue to plummet as shares of UAL , United 's parent company , dived $ 24.875 on the Big Board to close at $ 198 . 
as shares of UAL , United 's parent company , dived $ 24.875 on the Big Board to close at $ 198 . 
. 
. 
, and UAL gave him a $ 15 million bonus when it hired him . 
when it hired him . 
, and he was paid a salary of $ 342,122 last year with a $ 280,000 bonus . 
so the buy-out would be a success . 
He will also remain a director , US Facilities said , but wo n't serve on any board committees . 
In the same statement , US Facilities also said it had bought back 112,000 of its common shares in a private transaction . 
and Eli Lilly & Co. 's net income rose 24 % . 
Intense competition , however , led to unit sales declines for a group of Merck 's established human and animal-health products , including Aldomet and Indocin . 
Confectionery products sales also had strong growth in the quarter . 
Results were also bolstered by `` a very meaningful '' increase in operating profit by Colgate 's U.S. business , Mr. Mark said . 
, and they estimated operating margins at only 1 % to 3 % . 
, '' says Bonita Austin , an analyst with Wertheim Schroder & Co . 
`` But it 's not mediocre , it 's a real problem . '' 
, and a lot more will be done , '' Mr. Mark said . 
Osborn also operates Muzak franchises , entertainment properties and small cable-television systems . 
-- if you can find where your favorite writer went . 
when taking on local luminaries such as Michael `` Pee Wee '' Dukakis , or New England Patriots Coach Raymond `` Rev. Ray '' Berry , yesterday poured ridicule on new drawings of Globe columnists that replaced old photos in the revamped pages this week . 
while chasing a story . 
`` But think of the money you , the reader , will save on Halloween , '' said Mr. Barnicle . 
, but if we are serious about global warming we must look at the big picture and not allow the Dominant Culture to lock us into the capitalist-exploiters-greedy-American-consumers-global - warming scenario as the sole model for discussion . 
In addition , the tax-collecting agency says that it will take the unusual step of looking to the private sector to fill two new high-level positions to guide the 120,000-employee agency : a comptroller to oversee daily finances and a chief information officer to update the information system , which includes probably the largest computer data base in the world . 
The IRS also said that it would create the position of chief financial officer , who will be hired from within the agency . 
`` And we do n't have internal controls and discipline that we need to have to spend $ 5 billion properly . '' 
And the agency , which operated throughout fiscal 1989 with a $ 360 million budget shortfall , has been under a hiring freeze since last fall . 
which , in turn , I believe will result in a significant increase in revenue , '' he said . 
, but Mr. Goldberg said he plans to `` scour the world '' for the chief information officer and the comptroller . 
. 
. 
And he is collecting the names of those who telephoned the coup-makers to congratulate them during their brief time in control of his headquarters . 
Yet , while the failed coup is a major U.S. foreign policy embarrassment , it is merely the latest chapter in a byzantine relationship between Mr. Noriega and Washington that stretches back three decades . 
. 
In 1960 , for example , when Mr. Noriega was both a cadet at an elite military academy in Peru and a spy-in-training for the U.S. Defense Intelligence Agency , he was detained by Lima authorities for allegedly raping and savagely beating a prostitute , according to a U.S. Embassy cable from that period . The woman had nearly died . But U.S. intelligence , rather than rein in or cut loose its new spy , merely filed the report away . 
But U.S. intelligence , rather than rein in or cut loose its new spy , merely filed the report away . 
and later turned against many dictators , but none quite so resourceful . 
Yet he has proved more resilient than any of them . 
and still hope to remove him from power , but a single error on his part could cost him his life . 
, but a single error on his part could cost him his life . 
, says Mr. Moss , but increasing external pressure has only given him additional excuses for repression , and a scapegoat for his own mismanagement . 
when you do n't have any other option . '' 
because his brother had falsified his birth certificate . 
So he splashed the information on handbills that he distributed throughout the banana-exporting city of Puerto Armuelles , which was ruled by United Fruit Co . 
During his years in Chiriqui , however , Mr. Noriega also revealed himself as an officer as perverse as he was ingenious . 
During his years in Chiriqui , however , Mr. Noriega also revealed himself as an officer as perverse as he was ingenious . 
But through this period , so far as the U.S. military was concerned , Mr. Noriega was a model recruit . 
, but they did so falsely . 
after providing populist dictator Torrijos the critical support to defeat a coup attempt against him a year earlier . 
. 
when he was just as close to the Cubans . '' 
But he did fly to Panama to scold dictator Torrijos on the drug ties of Panamanian officials , including Mr. Noriega . 
Mr. Ingersoll later recalled that Gen. Torrijos seemed afraid to act on the concerns of the U.S. . 
-- and the deliberations were intense , Mr. Turner says . 
. 
so they can extort you . '' 
And the investigators were quickly closing in on Mr. Noriega himself . 
At the time , though , in 1979 , the U.S. was once again flirting with its longtime Latin American spy . 
as soon as he hit U.S. soil . 
But now , along with reindicting Mr. Noriega 's pal , they intended to charge Mr. Noriega himself , on allegations that he was involved in the illegal trading of some $ 2 million in arms . 
. 
but simultaneously being caught between foreign policy considerations over which we have no control . '' 
before the case died a quiet death . 
then we would n't have the problems we have now , '' Mr. Sanford says . 
The Reagan administration also put Mr. Noriega 's G-2 back on the U.S. payroll . 
. 
and who testified before the U.S. grand jury in Miami that would ultimately indict the Panamanian on drug charges . 
that would ultimately indict the Panamanian on drug charges . 
But Mr. Noriega was convinced the Reagan White House would n't act against him , recalls his close ally Jose Blandon , because he had an insurance policy : his involvement with the Contra rebels in Nicaragua . 
, recalls his close ally Jose Blandon , because he had an insurance policy : his involvement with the Contra rebels in Nicaragua . 
Mr. Noriega also conveyed intelligence from his spy operation inside the Nicaraguan capital of Managua . 
And on at least one occasion , in the spring of 1985 , he helped arrange a sabotage attack on a Sandinista arsenal in Nicaragua . 
, says Sen. Patrick Leahy , a Vermont Democrat who then served on the Senate Intelligence Committee . 
. 
For instance , he helped steal the May 1984 Panamanian elections for the ruling party . But just one month later , he also contributed $ 100,000 to a Contra leader , according to documents released for Oliver North 's criminal trial in Washington , D.C . 
But just one month later , he also contributed $ 100,000 to a Contra leader , according to documents released for Oliver North 's criminal trial in Washington , D.C . 
But just one month later , he also contributed $ 100,000 to a Contra leader , according to documents released for Oliver North 's criminal trial in Washington , D.C . 
Yet , his political setbacks mounted . 
He then ousted President Nicholas Ardito Barletta , a former World Bank official with close ties to the U.S. , after Mr. Barletta tried to create a commission to investigate the murder . 
U.S. , after Mr. Barletta tried to create a commission to investigate the murder . 
And , all the while , Panama 's debt problems continued to grow . 
And Mr. Shultz curtly told Mr. Abrams that the general should be told that only he could repair his tarnished image . 
as much as we fed him , nurtured him and let him grow up to be big and strong . 
when actual earnings were available . 
The Fed also said U.S. industry operated at 83.6 % of capacity last month , down from 83.8 % in August . 
, after having been unchanged in October . 
, although black males and white and black women also show lower mortality rates . 
, although black males and white and black women also show lower mortality rates . 
A report in this week 's issue of the Journal of the National Cancer Institute also projects that overall U.S. mortality rates from lung cancer , the leading cause of cancer death , should begin to drop in several years if cigarette smoking continues to abate . 
if cigarette smoking continues to abate . 
25 years after the U.S. Surgeon General issued a report warning against the dangers of smoking , is the strongest indication to date that the reduction in smoking is leading to lower death rates from lung cancer . 
, but the mortality rate of the same age group in the mid-1980s was 9.6 , a decline of 28.7 % . 
The study , by Susan Devesa , William Blot and Joseph Fraumeni of the institute 's staff , also shows that the incidence of lung cancer as well as the death rate declined over the decade for all groups in the 35-44 age bracket , except black men . 
. 
But Dr. Fraumeni , one of the authors of the report , said `` the declining rates we 're seeing for younger people we believe may be a harbinger of declining mortality in the future . '' 
However , he stressed that the improvement depends on a continued reduction in smoking . 
, '' the report says . 
But the editorial , by Jan Stjernsward of the World Health Organization , notes that tobacco consumption and lung-cancer mortality rates are rising in developing countries . 
. 
. 
when trading began , the Nasdaq Composite Index weakened under selling pressure . 
before slipping again . 
, and every time you thought it would rally it came down . 
and no one has an opinion that lasts longer than 30 seconds , '' said Mr. Zipper . 
and I wish someone would do something about it , '' he complained . 
and 1,040 advanced . 
before closing at 29 1\/4 , down 1\/4 . 
if it ca n't successfully resolve a dispute with its European licensee , Boehringer Mannheim , over its anti-anemia drug , EPO . 
The company also pleased analysts by announcing four new store openings planned for fiscal 1990 , ending next August . 
Intermec , a maker of optical character-recognition devices , also reported higher third-quarter earnings . 
But favorable earnings was n't a guarantee that a stock 's price would improve yesterday . 
even though the telecommunications giant reported a 63 % increase in third-quarter profit . 
after reporting that third-quarter earnings improved to $ 1.27 a share from $ 1.15 a share a year earlier . 
However , the bank holding company 's loan-loss reserves rose to $ 177.3 million from $ 154 million a year earlier . 
But its thirdquarter earnings rose to 26 cents a share from 18 cents a share last year . 
In addition , Ralph Ingersoll II , 43 , chairman and chief executive , said he would take on additional responsibilities as editor in chief of the company . 
Also , Jean B. Clifton , 28 , was named executive vice president , treasurer and chief financial officer . 
Then cast-iron sewer pipe and the flush toilet were followed by sewage - and water-treatment plants toward the end of the 19th century . 
Then the 20th century saw the evolution of private-sector wonder drugs , which promulgated medical therapy . 
Shortly thereafter , hysterical articles began to appear predicting that advanced industrial societies would produce a blackened , uninhabitable planet possibly by the turn of the century . 
, and Mr. Wald suggested that life on earth might end by 1985 . 
because they produced malignant tumors in overdosed rats . 
Meanwhile , the New Environmentalists systematically opposed the methods of the Old Environmentalists . 
But the New Environmentalists oppose private wealth creation -LRB- which , they claim , depletes natural resources -RRB- and nuclear power -LRB- even though it would counteract the greenhouse effect -RRB- . 
-LRB- even though it would counteract the greenhouse effect -RRB- . 
Nor was it intended to dictate a set of prescriptive solutions , although various points were raised . 
, although various points were raised . 
when it comes to substantive policy change . 
. 
unless major changes are made in less than 10 years . 
after the company said in late August that its 1989 earnings could tumble as much as 37 % . 
The year-ago results , however , included the operations of a bottling business , which was sold last December . 
The latest third-quarter volume also compares with a very strong 10 % growth in the year-ago quarter . 
Coca-Cola Enterprises , which is 49%-owned by Coca-Cola Co. , also said it repurchased about 1.2 million of its common shares during the third quarter . 
Separately , Purchase , N.Y.-based PepsiCo Inc. , as expected , said fiscal third-quarter net rose 11 % to $ 269.3 million , or $ 1.02 a share , from $ 241.6 million , or 91 cents a share . 
, and Mr. Merksamer apparently wanted assurances that he wo n't have delivery problems . 
Instead , network officials say , it may `` counterprogram '' with shows for an audience that is virtually ignored in that time period : adults . 
and we 're certainly heading in the direction of less and less animation , '' said Joseph S. Cicero , vice president of finance and administration for National Broadcasting Co. , a unit of General Electric Co . 
, although the network declined to comment . 
, so we want to take the lead , '' says KCRA 's general manager , John Kueneke . 
, and says it is the only station to defect . 
The company also cited the stronger dollar , which cuts the value of overseas profit when it is translated into dollars . 
when it is translated into dollars . 
In addition , the company said , it was hurt by higher than previous-year costs for raw materials , though those costs have declined since the second quarter . 
, though those costs have declined since the second quarter . 
Incrementally higher production of those chemicals which remain in heavy demand also has forced up costs , such as overtime pay . 
if he 's not getting this therapy . '' 
, and I 'm totally opposed to the philosophy expressed by the quote . 
-- but this leaves the two-thirds who are dying of cancer . 
if he is not offered this opportunity . '' 
This hope , however , will never be realized if we use levamisole and 5-fluorouracil as a stopping point . 
if we use levamisole and 5-fluorouracil as a stopping point . 
However , their search notably wo n't include natural gas or pure methanol -- the two front-running alternative fuels -- in tests to be completed by next summer . 
Instead , the tests will focus heavily on new blends of gasoline , which are still undeveloped but which the petroleum industry has been touting as a solution for automobile pollution that is choking urban areas . 
but which the petroleum industry has been touting as a solution for automobile pollution that is choking urban areas . 
. 
`` And we are looking for the most cost-effective way to clean up the air . '' 
But David Hawkins , an environmental lawyer with the Natural Resources Defense Council , said the research appears merely to be a way to promote reformulated gasoline . 
Instead , a House subcommittee adopted a clean-fuels program that specifically mentions reformulated gasoline as an alternative . 
that specifically mentions reformulated gasoline as an alternative . 
when the House Energy and Commerce Committee takes up a comprehensive clean-air bill . 
, based in Irvine , Calif. , after his regulatory role was expanded by the new savings-and-loan bailout law . 
The inquiry also will cover the actions of Charles Keating Jr. , who is chairman of American Continental Corp. , Lincoln 's parent , and who contributed heavily to several U.S. senators . 
, and who contributed heavily to several U.S. senators . 
. 
When Lincoln was seized by the government , for example , 15 % of its loans , or $ 250 million , were to borrowers who were buying real estate from one of American Continental 's 50 other subsidiaries , according to Mr. Seidman . 
But the government did n't step in until six months ago , when thrift officials put Lincoln into conservatorship -- the day after American Continental filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection from creditors . 
, except to say , `` We will be responding comprehensively in several forums to each of these allegations at the appropriate time . '' 
Mr. Seidman said yesterday , for example , that Sen. Dennis DeConcini -LRB- D. , Ariz. -RRB- , who received $ 48,100 in contributions from Mr. Keating , phoned Mr. Seidman to request that he push for a sale of Lincoln before it would be seized . 
before it would be seized . 
. 
because `` hundreds of Arizona jobs -LCB- at Lincoln -RCB- were on the line . '' 
Senate Banking Committee Chairman Donald Riegle -LRB- D. , Mich . -RRB- has also returned contributions he received from Mr. Keating a year ago . 
Sens. John Glenn -LRB- D. , Ohio -RRB- , John McCain , -LRB- R. , Ariz. -RRB- and Alan Cranston -LRB- D. , Calif. -RRB- also received substantial contributions from Mr. Keating and sought to intervene on behalf of Lincoln . 
, if necessary . 
But a committee staff member said the panel is unlikely to pursue closely the role of the senators . 
He also held out little hope of restitution for purchasers of $ 225 million in American Continental subordinated debt . 
and to emerge from bankruptcy-law protection at two-thirds its former size . 
But after selling off pieces such as its East Coast shuttle , its Philadelphia hub and various planes , Eastern hit a stumbling block . 
. 
Eastern ultimately decided it would have to keep and operate the routes itself , which would leave it with less cash for its reorganization . 
It also would leave Eastern a bigger carrier than the scaled-down one proposed under the initial plan . 
, but the creditors committee has been having problems with the revisions . 
, and that Eastern 's plan presented no comfort level , according to a source present at yesterday 's session . 
, and that it would generate far less cash than anticipated . 
Other costs also would increase , including maintenance , because Eastern has an older fleet . 
, because Eastern has an older fleet . 
, but said he did n't expect Eastern would have to dip into the cash from asset sales currently held in escrow . 
However , he added , `` it 's not a requirement that the plan be accepted by creditors . 
. 
But creditors are free to press for court approval of their own plan , or the court could ignore both sides and draw its own . 
, or the court could ignore both sides and draw its own . 
if it exceeds tax figured the regular way , is due for a change in 1990 , thanks to 1986 's tax act . 
But most experts agree that the concept that is to be introduced drags in great complexity ; they have been trying to head it off this year . 
, but the plan turns out to be a big revenue loser . 
, because there are so many complex depreciation calculations to do . '' 
, because there are so many complex depreciation calculations to do . '' 
But Congress still could resolve the issue with other legislation this year or next , Starr adds . 
; but for personal losses , there are other factors to consider , notes publisher Prentice Hall . 
and that the year 's total losses exceed 10 % of adjusted gross income ; victims may pick the year when income is lower and deductions higher . 
and whether one spouse has larger income ; that may determine whether they should file jointly or separately . 
, but the IRS says people in the disaster areas wo n't be penalized for late filing if their returns are marked `` Hugo '' and postmarked by Jan. 16 . 
if their returns are marked `` Hugo '' and postmarked by Jan. 16 . 
, but late-payment penalties on the returns will be waived if the balance due and paid is 10 % or less of the liability . 
if the balance due and paid is 10 % or less of the liability . 
if they file -- or request an extension -- and pay tax due by Nov. 15 . 
, but late penalties will be abated for deposits made by Nov. 15 . 
The notice also grants relief for certain estate-tax returns . 
because few of the temps got to go aboard . 
But the Tax Court said the limitations were reasonable and realistic and allowed the deductions . 
. 
But judges usually find the real aim is to escape tax on hidden income ; and the IRS said Brown must have had such income -- although it uncovered no source -- because he deposited $ 124,732 in a bank account in 1982-84 while reporting income of only $ 52,012 . 
; and the IRS said Brown must have had such income -- although it uncovered no source -- because he deposited $ 124,732 in a bank account in 1982-84 while reporting income of only $ 52,012 . 
-- although it uncovered no source -- because he deposited $ 124,732 in a bank account in 1982-84 while reporting income of only $ 52,012 . 
-- although it uncovered no source -- because he deposited $ 124,732 in a bank account in 1982-84 while reporting income of only $ 52,012 . 
while reporting income of only $ 52,012 . 
; but testimony of his mother and stepmother about his father and of an ex-employer about his honesty and habits satisfied a judge that Brown was truthful and his tale of gifts was possible . 
and his tale of gifts was possible . 
, so Judge Shields rejected its claims . 
after hikers and equestrians complained they were being driven from trails . 
, while asserting a right , as taxpayers , to pedal on public lands . 
But the bikes ' burgeoning numbers , safety concerns and fear that they damage fragile landscapes have prompted pleas , from the Sierras to the Eastern Seaboard , to ban them from the back country . 
Yet Sierra 's hard-line stance has created something of a rift in the organization , which estimates that 17 % of its 500,000 members own mountain bikes . 
; it no longer , for example , lumps the bikes into the same category as motorcycles and other terrain-marring off-road vehicles . 
But the club still insists that public lands ought to be closed to the bikes unless studies indicate the bikes wo n't injure the environment or other users . 
unless studies indicate the bikes wo n't injure the environment or other users . 
, yet as a hiker I 've been run off the road by kids careening down a fire trail on them , '' says Gene Coan , an official at Sierra 's headquarters in San Francisco , echoing the concerns of many members . 
, and to school riders in proper trail etiquette . 
that can be corrected through `` education and peer pressure , '' says Jim Hasenauer , a director of the International Mountain Biking Association . 
when , a decade ago , some Marin County bicycle enthusiasts created a hybrid bike using fat tires , lightweight metallurgy and multi-gear technology . 
. 
because they shift smoothly in traffic , bounce easily over curbs and roll through road glass with far fewer flat tires than racing bikes . 
and it hosts the annual Fat Tire Bike Week . 
, but it can do so much more , '' he says . 
, while the dollar turned in a mixed performance . 
as stock prices plummeted and fears mounted of a replay of Friday . 
and fears mounted of a replay of Friday . 
But stocks later recovered , erasing most of their early declines . 
But stocks later recovered , erasing most of their early declines . 
But the dollar later rebounded , finishing slightly higher against the yen although slightly lower against the mark . 
But the dollar later rebounded , finishing slightly higher against the yen although slightly lower against the mark . 
although slightly lower against the mark . 
But the Fed move was a small gesture , traders said . 
because a bold move does n't appear necessary , several investment managers said . 
. 
But several other traders contend investors have overreacted to junk-bond jitters , and that stock prices will continue to recover . 
, and that stock prices will continue to recover . 
just because the piano player hit a bad note , '' said Laszlo Birinyi , president of Birinyi Associates Inc. , referring to the stock market 's plunge Friday on news of trouble in financing the UAL Corp . buy-out . 
Because I still have n't seen 
, while paper operations were dogged by higher costs , soft newsprint exports and a strong Japanese yen . 
, but full-year performance depends on the balance of operating and maintenance costs , plus pricing of certain products , the company said . 
, while panel and plywood markets will be stronger . 
The bank also said it expects to report a $ 1.42 billion loss for the third quarter and a loss for the full year . 
and take the big swing . 
, which analysts called a bit disappointing , while Manufacturers Hanover Corp. posted a $ 789 million loss for the quarter after adding $ 950 million to its reserve for loans to less-developed countries . 
after adding $ 950 million to its reserve for loans to less-developed countries . 
, while net for Banc One Corp. of Columbus , Ohio , grew 3.8 % . 
, '' the bank said , and profit for the area sank 27 % . 
, while Venezuela brought itself `` substantially current . '' 
Overall , the portfolio narrowed its quarterly loss to $ 70 million from $ 80 million a year earlier . 
But he reiterated the bank 's position that it is comfortable with the current level of $ 2.6 billion , covering about 30 % of the $ 8.9 billion of such loans outstanding . 
Citicorp 's spokesman said , however , that the bank is maintaining those expenses in proportion to revenue growth . 
As a result , Wells Fargo 's net interest income rose $ 36.3 million , or 7 % , to $ 537 million for the quarter . 
, while Wells Fargo continued to rigorously control non-interest expense , which was almost flat at $ 393.4 million . 
But the amount was still 39 % higher than the year-ago level , and 25 % higher as a percentage of total loans . 
`` because their credit quality was poor , '' the spokesman said . 
, while service charges , fees and commissions increased 22 % , to $ 79.4 million . 
. 
, and many are hoping for major new liberalizations if he is returned firmly to power . 
if he is returned firmly to power . 
, and many Indians feared their country might split apart . 
, and in 1980 , after her successors made a mess of their three years in power , she was restored to office . 
. 
. 
But if the opposition remains fractured , the Congress -LRB- I -RRB- could win a small majority , or lead a coalition government . 
. 
, if the opposition fields single candidates in 80 % of the races . 
, and its success will be clear only when it announces its final list of parliamentary candidates . 
only when it announces its final list of parliamentary candidates . 
, but it 's unclear how it is viewed by average Indian voters . 
But many of his statements on the issue in Parliament subsequently were proven wrong by documentary evidence . 
, but recent disclosures propelled it back onto the front pages , and that has helped galvanize the opposition , which last week blocked passage of two constitutional amendment bills . 
, and that has helped galvanize the opposition , which last week blocked passage of two constitutional amendment bills . 
But the average Indian had tremendous hope in the youthful leader and his promise to make both government and the ruling party more effective and less corrupt . 
. '' 
. 
. 
and then disintegrated . 
because it would jeopardize industrial confidentiality . 
and therefore had no comment . 
, and they may seek the support of CACI 's board and other major shareholders in connection with their plans . 
as bonds fell despite a modest decline in stock prices . 
But bond investors continue to keep a close watch on the jittery stock market . 
as stocks tumbled and fears mounted that Friday 's stock market debacle would be repeated . 
and fears mounted that Friday 's stock market debacle would be repeated . 
But a partial recovery in the Dow Jones Industrial Average , which had been down more than 60 points in midmorning , dashed those expectations . 
Treasury bonds also were hurt late in the day by a $ 4 billion offering by the Tennessee Valley Authority and the prospect of a huge amount of new agency debt . 
. '' 
Meanwhile , for the second straight day , the bond market paid little attention to the Federal Reserve 's open market operations . 
and to boost investor confidence . 
The Fed also appears reluctant to ease credit conditions further . 
, while the yield moved above 8 % for the first time since Thursday . 
Investment-grade corporate , municipal and mortgage-backed securities also fell . 
But most junk bonds closed unchanged after opening slightly higher on bargain-hunting by institutional investors . 
after opening slightly higher on bargain-hunting by institutional investors . 
Traders said hedging related to the TVA pricing also pressured Treasury bonds . 
The TVA bonds also `` served to remind the market that there will be even more new supply , '' said Lawrence N. Leuzzi , a managing director at S.G. Warburg Securities & Co . 
and Resolution Funding Corp. will announce details of its first bond offering . 
, and they expect Refcorp to offer $ 4 billion to $ 6 billion of long-term `` bailout '' bonds . 
, while most junk bonds ended unchanged . 
Meanwhile , Lockheed Corp. priced a $ 300 million note offering to yield 9.39 % . 
as two new Remics totaling $ 850 million were offered and talk circulated about two more issues that could be priced today . 
and talk circulated about two more issues that could be priced today . 
when prices are moving widely . 
, as the spread above the Treasury 10-year note held at 1.42 percentage points . 
, as gyrations in the stock market continued to buffet bonds . 
Meanwhile , several new issues were priced . 
then up by a wider-than-expected U.S. trade deficit and falling U.S. stock prices . 
But Japanese bonds ended weaker . 
Separately , the bill gives authority to the Bush administration to facilitate the refinancing of federally subsidized loans for low-income and moderate-income homeowners . 
And a squad of influential former Senate aides employed by the Wall Street firm Salomon Brothers came to the Capitol in a vain attempt to strip the provision . 
, and despite powerful allies , the opposition found itself undercut by an unusual alliance of liberals and conservatives . 
, and however disruptive to private investors , the refinancing is expected to yield at least $ 15 million in savings in fiscal 1990 . 
, and conservative Sen. Phil Gramm cast the fight as a populist stand against monied interests . 
as the administration won final congressional approval of $ 9 million in assistance for elections scheduled in Nicaragua in February . 
, but the legislation is so vaguely written that it has been dogged by questions regarding the money 's true purpose and its ultimate destination . 
, but behind the bipartisan leadership , a solid majority took shape yesterday and brushed aside amendments seeking to cut the total package or steer it away from direct aid to political parties . 
, but the opposition drew an unusual mix of senators , including Republicans Jesse Helms and Warren Rudman and Democrats Bill Bradley and John Glenn . 
, but more than half is likely to go to the Union Nacional Opositora party . 
, and one irony is that under Nicaraguan law a major portion of the opposition party 's funds must be shared with the government 's Supreme Electoral Council . 
But it is driven by the same fiscal pressures that have forced lawmakers to resort to various bookkeeping devices to juggle as much as $ 1 billion in spending that would otherwise put the bill over budget . 
that would otherwise put the bill over budget . 
, and the measure further commits Congress to a set of costly projects , including the first construction funds for the space station . 
, and the nation 's high-speed aerospace plane -- cut by the Senate -- could receive as much as $ 60 million in new funds or transfers . 
Similarly , the House agreed to add back $ 62 million to continue work on the advanced communications technology satellite , being developed by General Electric Co . 
And while setting a statutory limit of $ 1.6 billion on the automated space probe , the conference appropriated $ 30 million for the start-up of the CRAF-Cassini mission , a successor to the Voyager space probe . 
. 
, and within the Housing and Urban Development Department , more than $ 9.2 billion is provided for federally assisted housing , including an expanded effort to modernize public housing units that serve the poorest families . 
. 
, and the conference added 15 more valued at $ 8 million to ostensibly preserve `` balance '' between the House and Senate . 
, as appropriators approved a fiscal 1990 transportation bill late Monday that includes a sweeping ban on smoking on most domestic airline flights . 
Separately , a third conference report covering an $ 18.4 billion Treasury and Postal Service bill was sent to the Senate after passing the House on a 383-30 roll call yesterday . 
after passing the House on a 383-30 roll call yesterday . 
And after weeks of delay , the appropriations process is beginning to take some final shape . 
And among domestic programs , the most serious threat is White House opposition to abortion riders attached to separate bills funding the District of Columbia and Department of Health and Human Services . 
, and Mr. Bush also is threatening to veto any agreement that preserves Senate-passed provisions renewing U.S. support for the United Nations Fund for Population Activities . 
, and Mr. Bush also is threatening to veto any agreement that preserves Senate-passed provisions renewing U.S. support for the United Nations Fund for Population Activities . 
because they soar or plunge . 
Also , Mr. Savaiko noted , stock market investors seeking greater safety are veering toward buying bonds rather than precious metals because `` we are tending more toward a disinflationary economy that does n't make gold and precious metals attractive . '' 
because `` we are tending more toward a disinflationary economy that does n't make gold and precious metals attractive . '' 
after the stock market crashed and ended up losing money because gold prices subsequently fell , '' Mr. Nichols said . 
because gold prices subsequently fell , '' Mr. Nichols said . 
, he said , and as for the dollar , `` gold 's association with the currency has been diminishing recently so drops in the currency are n't having much impact on gold . '' 
so drops in the currency are n't having much impact on gold . '' 
because the stock market may go lower and gold may retain some of its ` flight to safety ' quality . 
and gold may retain some of its ` flight to safety ' quality . 
because if the stock market goes higher , it may be just a false alarm . 
. 
, but for the short term , it appears that gold producers are grateful for the $ 10 or so that gold has risen over the past week or so , '' he said . 
before selling . 
, so gold has n't either , '' he said . 
as traders in the pits tried to assess action in the stock market . 
. 
. 
as supply and demand fundamentals once again become the major consideration . 
Heating oil prices also rose . 
as livestock traders shook off fears that the Friday stock market plunge would chill consumer spending , which in turn would hurt retail sales of beef and pork . 
, which in turn would hurt retail sales of beef and pork . 
Cattle futures prices were also supported yesterday by signs that supermarket chains are making plans to increase their promotions concerning beef . 
because U.S. exports are lagging . 
while wheat prices settled mixed . 
But the nations of Europe and North America have decided they know better . 
, but U.S. delegate Constance Harriman and others thundered that down . 
In fact , they seemed a mite resentful . 
. 
. 
, and people feel better talking to someone who 's gone through the same thing , '' an SBA official says . 
, even as Section 89 fades . 
. 
, still is expected to join the House in voting to kill the law , which forces companies to provide comparable benefits to laborers and executives alike . 
And the group will urge that the federal government pre-empt state rules on what must be covered by employers ' health insurance . 
Small-business groups also will fight the medical-leave provision of legislation that would expand parental leaves . 
And they still oppose as too costly an employer-paid health insurance bill sponsored by Sen. Edward Kennedy -LRB- D. , Mass . -RRB- despite his proposal to phase in small business only gradually . 
There is also worry that the Pepper Commission studying long-term health care will again push lawmakers toward employerpaid solutions . 
after a private word to John Motley , lobbyist for the National Federation of Independent Business , resulted in a news release saying that the Senate Finance Committee chairman would recommend repeal of Section 89 . 
. 
, especially as prison production grows with swelling inmate populations . 
But the warranty on simpler parts would be lowered to two years or 24,000 miles . 
because car owners would be less likely to go back to dealers for the simpler repairs after two years . 
The repair shops are n't united , however . 
, which then find non-warranty work that might otherwise go to repair shops . 
that might otherwise go to repair shops . 
, yet most take jobs with large concerns , says a survey by the Foster McKay Group , a New York recruiting firm ... . 
, when that bank holding company merged into Banc One in January 1987 . 
because the process of affiliating American Fletcher into Banc One `` is considered completed . '' 
'' and that paying dividends from a new series of preferred could squeeze `` basic business operations . '' 
. 
. 
, and the restoration of Afghan freedom seems as far off as ever . 
But there never was a chance that the Afghan resistance would overthrow the Kabul regime quickly and easily . 
-- while requiring the U.S. and Pakistan to cut off aid . 
as long as Soviet aid to Kabul did . 
But as soon as the accords were signed , American officials sharply reduced aid . 
. 
By early May , Moscow had delivered , for example , 1,000 trucks , about 100 tanks , artillery and hundreds of other combat vehicles . 
But this is not the entire Afghan army , and it is no longer Kabul 's only military force . 
, and it is no longer Kabul 's only military force . 
In addition , the regime has established well-paid paramilitary forces totaling more than 100,000 , including 35,000 Soviet-trained troops of the Interior Ministry -LRB- KHAD\/WAD -RRB- , which still is directed by 1,500 Soviet KGB officers . 
. 
And thousands of Afghan children have been taken to the Soviet Union , where they are hostage for the behavior of their families . 
Cuban military personnel also have been active in Afghanistan since 1979 . 
Moreover , serious questions have been raised about the claimed withdrawal of Soviet forces . 
. 
even as others were ostentatiously withdrawn . 
Meanwhile , the Kabul regime is increasingly successful at portraying the resistance as bloody-minded fanatics . 
In autumn last year , for example , the regime garrison at Kandahar was prepared to surrender the city to resistance moderates . At the last minute , however , Pakistani officials sent in Gulbuddin Hekhmatyar , perhaps the most hated and feared of the extremists , with a demand that the surrender be made to his forces . 
At the last minute , however , Pakistani officials sent in Gulbuddin Hekhmatyar , perhaps the most hated and feared of the extremists , with a demand that the surrender be made to his forces . 
, and Kandahar remains a major regime base . 
Instead , they were pressured by Pakistan 's ISI , the channel for their support , into attacking Jalalabad . 
, but that it continues to exist and fight at all . 
after it was cut off ; but it is not clear how much is being sent or when it will arrive . 
; but it is not clear how much is being sent or when it will arrive . 
or when it will arrive . 
Indeed , U.S. officials have indicated to the press that the continuation of aid depends on what success the weakened resistance achieves by the end of this year . 
Yet under Mr. Reagan 's preferred successor , President Bush , those two cherished national-security causes are withering on the vine . 
And , surprisingly , little more than a whimper of protest is being heard , even though Reaganauts once breathed fire supporting the Contras and the Strategic Defense Initiative . 
, even though Reaganauts once breathed fire supporting the Contras and the Strategic Defense Initiative . 
Yet , he asserts , `` you look around ... and you say , ` Who are the leaders ? Who is going to carry the water ? ' '' 
Yet , he asserts , `` you look around ... and you say , ` Who are the leaders ? Who is going to carry the water ? ' '' 
. 
as the Bush administration lets the programs slip down the national-priority list . 
Above all , though , conservative Republicans who have championed both the Contras and SDI are reluctant to attack a Republican president for failing to do more -- though that reluctance may be receding . 
-- though that reluctance may be receding . 
, and we 're going to as it gets worse , '' says Rep. Dan Burton , an Indiana Republican who has been a staunch Contra backer . 
as it gets worse , '' says Rep. Dan Burton , an Indiana Republican who has been a staunch Contra backer . 
`` But it 's like kicking your father in the pants . 
because he 's your father . '' 
until Nicaragua holds national elections next February . 
But the administration has dropped any effort to win military aid for the rebels . 
And the administration 's deal with Congress gives several congressional committees the right to cut off even humanitarian aid next month , though the committees are likely to let aid continue until February . 
, though the committees are likely to let aid continue until February . 
, and after the February election their future in any form will be murky at best . 
, and it recently lobbied to persuade the Senate to restore some of the funds it planned to cut from the program . 
And just last week , Defense Secretary Dick Cheney gave a strong speech listing `` compelling reasons '' to push ahead with SDI and saying he 'd urge President Bush to veto a defense bill with `` inadequate '' funding for the program . 
But the strong pitch by Mr. Cheney may be too little too late to prevent damage to SDI . 
, and in the end the program 's backers will be hard pressed to head off some reduction in spending next year . 
And while the defense secretary is speaking out , President Bush himself has n't launched any high-visibility campaign to drum up support , as President Reagan did . 
The administration also acknowledges that it is n't pursuing Mr. Reagan 's original vision of an `` impenetrable shield '' protecting the whole U.S. , but rather a more modest version . 
But the Soviets also are insisting that they will reserve the right to withdraw from the completed strategic-arms treaty later on if the U.S. does SDI testing or deployment that the Soviets think violates the existing anti-ballistic-missile treaty . 
But the Soviets also are insisting that they will reserve the right to withdraw from the completed strategic-arms treaty later on if the U.S. does SDI testing or deployment that the Soviets think violates the existing anti-ballistic-missile treaty . 
As a result , Frank Gaffney , a former Reagan Pentagon aide who now heads the Center for Security Policy , charges that the administration 's `` professions of continued commitment to development and deployment of the SDI program strain credulity . '' 
Still , proponents may be shying away from more drumbeating because they sense political tides have turned against arming the Nicaraguan rebels or boosting spending on SDI -- particularly when the public perceives the Soviet threat is declining under Mikhail Gorbachev . 
because they sense political tides have turned against arming the Nicaraguan rebels or boosting spending on SDI -- particularly when the public perceives the Soviet threat is declining under Mikhail Gorbachev . 
-- particularly when the public perceives the Soviet threat is declining under Mikhail Gorbachev . 
In fact , because communism seems to be beating a global retreat , some conservatives may simply be so pleased that their anti-communist philosophy is prevailing that they do n't have the fire at the moment to push controversial programs . 
. 
But they say they ca n't make much headway because of a lack of willing leaders in a position to turn the tide . 
Above all , though , proponents say neither the Contra nor the SDI cause can be pushed much further without more presidential support . 
, '' the congressman says . 
when its title leaked out . 
, '' but that `` I mean to persuade you to the opposite view . '' 
. 
because it seems to `` assimilate the status of blacks to that of animals -- as a mere project of charity , of humaneness . '' 
when he dared to defend an Indian girl who had been adopted by non-Indian parents off her reservation . 
Indeed , the gap is so large that Mr. Allen 's critics refuse to engage the debate . 
, though trade between the two countries is a minuscule $ 3 billion . 
, but the West 's embargo on military deals and uncertainty about the nation 's stability kept many foreign exhibitors away . 
when the high-purity halogenated hydrocarbon was sold to the Soviets in 1986 received a suspended 10-month jail sentence . 
because illegal exports lowered international trust in Japan . '' 
because it no longer expects to use as much eucalyptus pulp as previously anticipated . 
But it was opposed by some environmentalists as a threat to Irian Jaya 's forests and a potential source of social unrest for the primitive tribes who inhabit them . 
It also intends to set up an international wholesale market with the Singapore government next May and to open a department store in Bangkok and shopping centers in Malaysia , Taiwan , Canada , Chicago and Seattle by December 1990 . 
and to open a department store in Bangkok and shopping centers in Malaysia , Taiwan , Canada , Chicago and Seattle by December 1990 . 
while Sotheby 's is luring collectors with sales of Swiss , German , Spanish , Australian and Canadian paintings . 
`` Then there 'll be fair competition . '' 
However , they said the company 's flat revenue was a disappointment , and an indication that sales of Polaroid 's new conventional film in the U.S. have been sluggish . 
. '' 
, '' but added that the company has n't been able to get the product on the shelves of some mass-merchandise , discount retailers that it had hoped would be carrying the product already . 
Then , it rebounded to finish down only 18.65 points . 
And those swings paled beside Friday 's 190.58-point plunge and Monday 's 88.12-point recovery . 
And , apparently , it is here to stay . 
But most are linked by a single theme : liquidity -- the ability to get in and out of the market quickly . 
because investors are employing ways to turn over shares at ever-faster rates and increasingly acting in concert . 
And that , naturally , exacerbates price movements . 
But when they discover that markets are n't always as liquid as they supposed -- markets jump . 
. 
On Monday , for instance , Howard Ward , a principal at Scudder , Stevens & Clark , found that `` you could n't buy blue-chips at quoted prices without paying up . '' And when many firms had to `` pay up , '' Monday 's sudden rally was sparked . 
And when many firms had to `` pay up , '' Monday 's sudden rally was sparked . 
. 
even when they own stocks . 
'' -- so that bouts of higher volatility get built into the stock market . 
when computer models say one is more attractive . 
For instance , First Quadrant Corp. , an asset allocator based in Morristown , N.J. , said it quickly boosted stock positions in its `` aggressive '' accounts to 75 % from 55 % to take advantage of plunging prices Friday . 
before stocks rallied . 
. 
when stock prices dropped -- eliminating the need to sell the stocks themselves . 
But in October 1987 , when portfolio insurers rushed to sell at the same time , they overwhelmed both the stock and futures markets . 
Yet even today , institutions are quietly practicing forms of portfolio insurance by nervously rushing to and fro in the markets . 
But institutions say Wall Street brokerage firms are less willing to make markets . 
Lack of liquidity can also result from exchange `` reforms . '' 
when the stock market plunged Friday . 
as the markets were falling . 
`` Then they said , ` By the way , two of the doors are locked . ' '' 
The takeover mania also adds to volatility . 
; it closed at $ 198 yesterday . 
By contrast , traditional buy-and-hold investors are unlikely to generate sudden price moves . 
And Robert D. Arnott , president of asset allocator First Quadrant , notes that before Friday 's tailspin , daily volatility on the New York Stock Exchange in recent weeks had reached `` historically low levels . '' 
when the stock market was lower . 
But the low average volatility Mr. Phelan is talking about is n't any comfort in a period of rapid stock-market moves like the past week . 
In addition , Sanford Grossman , a Wharton School finance professor , says volatile jumps in stock prices will continue as long as liquidity falls short of the voracious demands of institutions `` who can go out and say ` I have a billion dollars of stocks to sell . ' '' 
as long as liquidity falls short of the voracious demands of institutions `` who can go out and say ` I have a billion dollars of stocks to sell . ' '' 
. 
once the craft gets spaceborn . 
but the agency feared `` garbage data could be substituted for real data . '' 
because they had modified their systems to reject worms . 
But Mr. Redmond said the worm hit universities that had n't elected to make the changes . 
If it finds one and gets into the system , it will display a screen when a user logs on that says , `` Worms Against Nuclear Killers ... . 
In addition , Mr. Alexander said , the worm sends strange messages to other machines at the center -- such as , `` George Orwell was an optimist , '' or `` Do n't feed the bats tonight . '' 
The worm also looks for elementary passwords that confer more privileges on the user . 
when it is installed but are supposed to be replaced as soon as the system is up and running . 
as soon as the system is up and running . 
, preventing them from signing on to the network . 
before it knows exactly how many centers of the 6,000 connected to Internet were affected and the extent of the damage , if any . 
because it uses plutonium to generate the electricity needed to run the craft . 
, or if Galileo itself crashes into the Earth during the two times it flies close to the planet , fatal levels of plutonium would be released into the atmosphere . 
Yet it is also axiomatic that the power to create new crimes belongs only to the legislature , and not to courts . 
Yet it is also axiomatic that the power to create new crimes belongs only to the legislature , and not to courts . 
. 
In practice , however , the line between interpretation and redefinition of the criminal law long ago began to blur . 
In particular , a common law of white-collar crime has developed with surprising rapidity over the past decade . 
For example , although insider trading has long been criminal , it has never been statutorily defined . 
. 
'' and whether the tippee knew or recklessly disregarded this fact . 
Gradually , however , lower courts and prosecutors have pushed this definition to its breaking point . 
, who , in turn , persuaded her husband , a Mr. Loeb , to run this errand . 
, and Mr. Chestman then bought for his own account and other clients . 
, and Mr. Chestman then bought for his own account and other clients . 
-RRB- ? 
-RRB- ? 
Or did Mr. Chestman only hear a market rumor -LRB- which one may lawfully trade upon -RRB- ? 
, when he was told by another prominent trader , Bernard `` Bunny '' Lasker , that the deal was in trouble . 
. 
Finally , was the information material ? 
Yet , all these issues are subsidiary to a more central issue : Who is and who should be making the criminal law here ? 
But even if they behaved recklessly , reasons still exist to fear and resist this steady process of case-by-case judicial extension of the law of insider trading . 
. 
. 
Still , case-by-case retrospective decision making of this sort is vulnerable to the tunnel vision caused by a fixation on ad hoc -LRB- and usually sleazy -RRB- examples . 
. 
and so extends the definition of insider trading to reach this conduct , it does not see the potentially enormous number of other cases that will be covered by the expanded rule . 
Thus , a court is poorly positioned to make judgments about the social utility of the expanded rule . 
For example , in focusing on Mr. Freeman 's attempt to gain nonpublic information about a deal 's collapse , one does not naturally think about the reverse side of the coin : What if the rumor had been false ? 
, but companies listed on the major stock exchanges were encouraged by the exchanges to respond openly to such inquiries from securities analysts . 
; and -LRB- 2 -RRB- the legislature can frame `` bright line '' standards that create less uncertainty than the fact-bound decisions of courts . 
; and -LRB- 2 -RRB- the legislature can frame `` bright line '' standards that create less uncertainty than the fact-bound decisions of courts . 
. 
, as individuals do not dare to approach an uncertain line closely . 
At least when the stakes are high , uncertainty in turn results in overinclusion , as individuals do not dare to approach an uncertain line closely . 
, as individuals do not dare to approach an uncertain line closely . 
Yet , late last year , Congress effectively reversed this decision by enacting a one-sentence statute that defined fraud to include any scheme to deprive another of `` the intangible right of honest services . '' 
, which the courts must thereafter interpret , than to engage in the difficult line-drawing distinctions that are inherently its responsibility . 
. 
Over the long run , however , sleazy cases will make bad law . 
But the specialty-material segment slowed somewhat and consumer products continued below expectations . 
and consumer products continued below expectations . 
Also , profit was hurt by the strength of the dollar overseas which negatively affected the company 's currency-exchange rate . 
Computer-guided buying then kicked in , and the industrials regained 27 points in five minutes . 
, and the industrials regained 27 points in five minutes . 
while dumping takeover-related issues . 
, but they were running scared to premier blue chips such as Procter & Gamble , which jumped 3 3\/8 to 127 . 
, and Manufacturers Hanover slipped 3\/8 to 40 1\/4 . 
as big stock-index arbitrage sell programs pushed prices lower . 
and Alaska Air Group slid 3\/8 to 24 1\/4 . 
But Texas Air , the owner of Continental and Eastern airlines , bucked the group 's decline by rising 7\/8 to 14 5\/8 in American Stock Exchange trading . 
after filing earlier this year for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection , from which it expects to emerge early next year . 
Other blue-chip consumer issues also fared relatively well : PepsiCo rose 1 3\/8 to 58 1\/2 ; Coca-Cola Co. was unchanged at 66 3\/4 ; McDonald 's also closed unchanged at 30 1\/2 , and Merck rose 1\/2 to 75 1\/4 . 
; McDonald 's also closed unchanged at 30 1\/2 , and Merck rose 1\/2 to 75 1\/4 . 
, and Merck rose 1\/2 to 75 1\/4 . 
Broader averages also fell . 
, and the New York Stock Exchange Composite Index fell 0.88 to 188.89 . 
Philips Industries tumbled 3\/8 to 22 7\/8 ; Hilton Hotels fell 2 1\/2 to 92 and Holiday Corp. fell 2 1\/8 to 69 7\/8 . 
, and Eastman Kodak closed down 3\/4 to 44 1\/4 . 
Trading also was heavy in the over-the-counter market . 
. '' 
. '' 
if it ca n't reach an agreement with its lenders to relieve its debt burden , plunged 1 3\/8 to 2 1\/8 . 
because takeover prices may not be as high as before the recent correction . 
after the company filed for bankruptcy protection . 
But its auditor , Ernst & Young , said Enviropact 's financial situation raises `` substantial doubt about its ability to continue as a going concern . '' 
But directors of the Great Neck , N.Y. , real estate investment trust did n't act on the common stock dividend . 
And they wo n't consider such a dividend , the trust added , before results are available for the first quarter of 1990 . 
, the trust added , before results are available for the first quarter of 1990 . 
and perhaps they anticipate greater demand ... among people leaving the stock market . '' 
and it expects more activity as investors receive the proceeds from sales of stock . 
as investors receive the proceeds from sales of stock . 
, '' although the ad included a coupon that could arrive later in the week . 
First National Bank of Boston , for example , is offering certain new depositors an extra quarter of a percentage point on six-month and 12-month CDs . 
New York 's Citibank , for instance , increased the yield on small-denomination three-month CDs to 8 % from 7.9 % . 
On average , however , three-month CDs at major banks are yielding a tenth of a percentage point less than they were a week ago . 
Meanwhile , the average yield on six-month CDs of more than $ 90,000 fell to 7.93 % in the latest week , according to Banxquote , from 8.10 % the week before . 
, but yields on CDs aimed at the individual investor are boosted by more frequent compounding . 
CDs sold by major brokerage houses , which like jumbo CDs tend to closely follow interest rate trends , also posted larger drops in yields . 
A six-month , broker-sold CD , for example , was yielding an average 8.09 % in the latest week , a fifth of a percentage point lower than the week before . 
, '' said Robert J. Hutchinson , senior vice president for retail marketing at Manufacturers Hanover Trust Co. in New York . 
. 
. 
while supporting ineffective governments . 
; and that the legislation address -- with dollars -- social and environmental concerns . 
. 
Furthermore , a U.S. rejection of the capital increase -LRB- and transfer of shares to Japan -RRB- would give Japan an argument against future calls for economic burden-sharing . 
On the other hand , a decision to increase the IMF 's capital would reinforce the central economic role of multilateral institutions in developing countries . 
, as countries delay market-opening steps in anticipation of richer multilateral support . 
, then it is incumbent on them to speak up now and explain the alternative . 
Also , he and Mr. Stein were ordered to make restitution of $ 35,000 to a customer . 
, nor denied the alleged violations . 
The purchase comes after nearly three years of on-again off-again talks between TCI and Viacom , which has also discussed the sale of an interest in Showtime with other cable operators . 
, while Showtime and its sister service , The Movie Channel , have only about 10 million , according to Paul Kagan Associates , a Carmel , Calif. , research firm . 
But TCI President John Malone has long been concerned about HBO 's dominance of the pay TV business , and has been eager to keep Showtime as a healthy competitor . 
, and nothing we 're doing here bears any relationship to that . '' 
Viacom also owns cable systems , but it is the 14th largest operator of such systems , with less than one million subscribers . 
, but it is the 14th largest operator of such systems , with less than one million subscribers . 
because Mr. Biondi is the former chief executive of HBO , and Mr. Cox served as chief of marketing for the service . 
, and Mr. Cox served as chief of marketing for the service . 
Later , however , the company agreed to meet on Monday with the Seattle Professional Engineering Employees Association after a federal mediator intervened , according to the union . 
Later , however , the company agreed to meet on Monday with the Seattle Professional Engineering Employees Association after a federal mediator intervened , according to the union . 
. 
Meanwhile , a federal mediator is scheduled to meet today with Boeing officials and representatives of 55,000 striking Machinists . 
It also would have reduced mandatory overtime . 
It was n't clear , however , whether the actions were related to a battle between the corporate raider and New York attorney Martin Ackerman for control of Datapoint Corp. , a San Antonio , Texas-based data-processing systems maker . 
, after Mr. Edelman gained control . 
. 
The filing also said certain provisions which apply to persons acquiring 20 % or more of Intelogic common stock , were waived by Intelogic for Mr. Edelman , who is chairman of the company . 
because it suggests the use of condoms can make sex `` safe . '' 
But the report says : `` The only safe sex is sex between uninfected partners , '' and testing is the only way to learn of infection . 
, '' and testing is the only way to learn of infection . 
In addition , the report recommends that federal and state governments provide free treatment to all who test positive . 
, but profit-taking on short positions helped the currency rebound to close mixed against major counterparts . 
It also declined against the mark but did n't reach its intraday low of 1.8435 marks until two hours later . 
, there 's still enough positive news in the data to justify buying dollars . 
And he added that manufactured goods exports are still rising . 
Later , the U.S. currency fell to about 142.25 yen on news reports of the San Francisco earthquake . 
, and they do n't anticipate significant easing by the U.S. Federal Reserve . 
But other analysts contend that while the Fed 's move to loosen credit has n't been aggressive , it nevertheless sends a clear signal that , at least for now , the Fed has relaxed its grip on credit . 
, it nevertheless sends a clear signal that , at least for now , the Fed has relaxed its grip on credit . 
The two companies also agreed to settle any future property rights issues over the next 10 years through binding arbitration , both companies said . 
, '' since products covered by the disputed patents account for about 20 % of its annual sales . 
; instead they landed in 16th and 18th place . 
and CBS had one . 
For example , P&G up until now has n't sold coffee to airlines and does only limited business with hotels and large restaurant chains . 
Maryland Club also distributes tea , which fits well with P&G 's Tender Leaf brand , and hot cocoa products . 
and to finance capital spending , it said . 
because it would allow federal funding of abortions for victims of rape and incest , the White House said . 
But he put off a firm decision while his aides and legislators searched for a compromise that would tighten requirements for such abortions in a way acceptable to the president . 
while his aides and legislators searched for a compromise that would tighten requirements for such abortions in a way acceptable to the president . 
But there still may be prolonged debate and political maneuvering that holds up the $ 156.7 billion funding bill for the fiscal year that began Oct. 1 . 
But he has opposed Medicaid funding of abortions for poor women who say they are victims of rape and incest , arguing that those exceptions are enforced so loosely that they open the way for abortions for other women . 
after it revised loan-loss provisions to around the same level of shareholders ' funds of 180 million New Zealand dollars -LRB- US$ 105.4 million -RRB- . 
However , that does n't mean they can benefit from the vaccine . 
until a large clinical trial is undertaken by the Army in January , according to Robert Redfield , chief of acquired immune deficiency syndrome research at Walter Reed Army Institute of Research . 
, but deteriorate nonetheless . 
The agreement also includes the purchase of Cross & Trecker 's Warner & Swasey -LRB- Switzerland -RRB- AG unit by a European affiliate of Murata Machinery . 
Cross & Trecker is also selling its equity interest in a Japanese joint venture , Murata Warner Swasey , to Murata Machinery . 
, and accepted bids were at 8.292 % . 
Citicorp also said that the average rate fell to 7.986 % at its $ 50 million auction of 182-day commercial paper from 8.1255 % at last week 's sale . 
, and accepted bids were at 7.986 % . 
, and indicated that its previous estimate of a 50 % rise in earnings for all of 1989 will be exceeded by a wide margin . 
There was also a decline in the group 's net financial costs to 25 million francs from 50 million a year before . 
These movements were offset , however , by a steep rise in corporate income tax payments to 199 million francs from 35 million in the first six months of 1988 . 
Fed critics , however , hailed it as a long overdue attempt to bring a measure of openness and democracy to the setting of monetary policy . 
and we are experiencing reduced profit margins as a result , '' said John D. Ong , chairman and chief executive . 
and we are experiencing reduced profit margins as a result , '' said John D. Ong , chairman and chief executive . 
But operating profit from aerospace products rose nearly 50 % to $ 15 million from $ 10.1 million . 
However , the officials said it was too early to disclose the nature of the proposed projects or indicate when the talks might be concluded . 
, '' a Fiat spokeswoman said . 
, but `` in the long run , I do n't want to rule out that we can also come a bit closer in personal cars . '' 
, but `` in the long run , I do n't want to rule out that we can also come a bit closer in personal cars . '' 
He has also agreed to become president of a new subsidiary to be formed to make future acquisitions , the company said . 
And on London 's Stock Exchange Monday , 18.5 million shares were traded , far above the usual volume . 
after GM confirmed its friendly negotiations with Jaguar . 
But yesterday 's announcement indicates that Ford has n't lost interest . 
, though he concedes that many small investors will find Jaguar 's zigzags `` too hard to swallow . '' 
But a crucial point is how Ford reacts when GM , the world 's largest auto maker , firms up its proposed deal with Jaguar . 
when GM , the world 's largest auto maker , firms up its proposed deal with Jaguar . 
, and then win Jaguar management 's promise of an eventual 30 % stake . 
Analysts believe the car makers also will create joint ventures to develop new executive models , doubling Jaguar 's yearly output of 50,000 cars . 
if holders and the U.K. government agreed to drop the anti-takeover barrier early . 
Then , Mr . Will says , `` you get a bidding war between two very rich , very determined international companies . '' 
even though they have run up '' lately , says Doug Johnson , a fund manager for Seattle-based Safeco Asset Management . 
before Ford 's latest move . 
until his current term expires in April 1991 , a Lance spokesman said . 
and the other four current directors do n't want to serve beyond the special meeting date , Newport said . 
, although the company did n't provide figures , as is customary with Swiss companies . 
, as it reported a 36 % jump in fiscal first-quarter earnings on a 33 % revenue gain . 
Microsoft previously indicated it would have a strong quarter by forecasting its revenue gain on Oct. 4 , causing a $ 6.50 a share jump in its stock . 
But its stock jumped again yesterday as it disclosed surprisingly strong margins on those sales . 
as it disclosed surprisingly strong margins on those sales . 
But the company said that trend was offset in the first quarter by better economies of scale and efficiencies in manufacturing . 
As a result , Microsoft 's cost of goods , as a percentage of sales , fell 17 % from the year-ago quarter and 13 % from the previous period . 
Microsoft officials said the strong results also reflected continuing high demand for its software applications and operating systems . 
because many are geared to the high-performance end of the market . 
because many are geared to the high-performance end of the market . 
, while the low-end , or commodity segment , of the industry is experiencing sluggish growth or even sales declines . 
, and sales rose 7 % . 
Control Data also said it is developing what it called a `` supermainframe '' computer , the Cyber 2000 , intended for scientists , engineers and other users of generalpurpose high-performance computers . 
, as British Airways indicated it may balk at any hastily revised version of the aborted $ 6.79 billion buy-out of United Air 's parent . 
Meanwhile , investor Marvin Davis said he remains interested in UAL , but he dropped his earlier $ 300-a-share back-up bid . 
, but he dropped his earlier $ 300-a-share back-up bid . 
, after plunging over 60.25 points in the morning . 
, while the dollar was mixed . 
, while imports rose to a record . 
because they are unhappy with the carrier 's latest proposal . 
However , director Thomas O'Rourke has said he wo n't seek re-election at the company 's annual meeting next month . 
, until McGill directors have completed their evaluation . 
, but the date of the selloff followed by one day the Swedish concern 's tender offer , and the indicated price of the shares sold equals SKF 's $ 72-a-share tender offer price . 
and thus could n't identify the buyer or buyers . 
or whether there is a recurrence following treatment , said Oncor President Stephen Turner . 
because it is only occasionally useful in choosing the most effective treatment . 
But the test may prove to be more sensitive in determining whether a tumor has spread or returned following treatment , Dr. Wilson said . 
It also will hand Unilab new markets . 
In Los Angeles , for example , Central has had a strong market position while Unilab 's presence has been less prominent , according to Mr. Harlow . 
. 
And the new syndicated `` reality '' show `` Hard Copy '' records viewers ' opinions for possible airing on the next day 's show . 
, and television programmers are racing to exploit the possibilities . 
But right now programmers are figuring that viewers who are busy dialing up a range of services may put down their remote control zappers and stay tuned . 
Other long-distance carriers have also begun marketing enhanced 900 service , and special consultants are springing up to exploit the new tool . 
, and special consultants are springing up to exploit the new tool . 
, but new legal restrictions are aimed at trimming excesses . 
Before , callers of 900 numbers would just listen and not talk , or they 'd vote `` yes '' or `` no '' by calling one of two numbers . 
, or they 'd vote `` yes '' or `` no '' by calling one of two numbers . 
, and the hardware can process 10,000 calls in 90 seconds . 
-LRB- `` Should the U.S. military intervene in Panama ? '' -RRB- , but even the hottest controversies on CNN log only about 10,000 calls . 
, and viewers will be given a 900 number to call . 
, and the call 's modest cost will be an immediate method of raising money . 
, but ABC Sports also uses the calls as a sales tool : After thanking callers for voting , Frank Gifford offers a football videotape for $ 19.95 , and 5 % of callers stay on the line to order it . 
, but ABC Sports also uses the calls as a sales tool : After thanking callers for voting , Frank Gifford offers a football videotape for $ 19.95 , and 5 % of callers stay on the line to order it . 
, and 5 % of callers stay on the line to order it . 
, and 5 % of callers stay on the line to order it . 
Meanwhile , NBC Sports recently began `` Scores Plus , '' a year-round , 24-hour 900 line providing a complex array of scores , analysis and fan news . 
if you 're pregnant , '' etc . -RRB- . 
. 
, and the sponsor will be able to gather a list of desirable potential customers . 
, but it 's believed to be about 40 % above regular daytime rates . 
, because they get a chance to do couponing , '' says Ms. Seaman . 
`` And we were able to attract some new advertisers because this is something new . '' 
because this is something new . '' 
, and it can be used to generate instant mailing lists . 
But Mr. Monsky sees much bigger changes ahead . 
. 
Someday , viewers may also choose different depths of news coverage . 
, and I want story No. 2 in depth , '' Mr. Monsky says . 
and that a group of senior executives plans to make a proposal to purchase three of the companies -- Integrated Resources Equity Corp. , Resources Trust Co. and Integrated Resources Asset Management Corp . 
Integrated also said it expects to report a second-quarter loss wider than the earlier estimate of about $ 600 million . 
but said the change was related to Integrated 's failure to sell its core businesses , as well as `` other events , '' which it did n't detail , that occurred after its announcement last week that it was in talks with the unidentified prospective buyer . 
Meanwhile , a number of top sales producers from Integrated Resources Equity will meet this afternoon in Chicago to discuss their options . 
The violent temblor , which lasted about 15 seconds and registered 6.9 on the Richter scale , also caused the collapse of a 30-foot section of the San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge and shook Candlestick Park . 
and fires raged . 
The quake , which also caused damage in San Jose and Berkeley , knocked out electricity and telephones , cracked roadways and disrupted subway service in the Bay Area . 
and fans evacuated from the stadium . 
Meanwhile , about 125 refugees flew to Duesseldorf , West Germany , from Warsaw , the first airlift in East Germany 's refugee exodus . 
if the misuse of psychiatry against dissenters is discovered during a review within a year . 
The National Cancer Institute also projected that overall U.S. mortality rates from lung cancer should begin to drop in several years if cigarette smoking continues to abate . 
if cigarette smoking continues to abate . 
`` as long as there is a threat '' from Communist North Korea . 
. 
, although he probably was aware of the slayings . 
The report by the Defense Ministry also rejected allegations that Britain covered up evidence of Waldheim 's activities as a German army officer . 
, and the two officials pledged to respect each other 's laws , security and stability . 
But he dropped his earlier $ 300-a-share back-up bid , saying he must first explore bank financing . 
. 
. 
And rumors of forced selling by takeover-stock traders triggered a 25-point downdraft in the Dow Jones Industrial Average around 11:15 a.m. EDT yesterday . 
after a Japanese news agency reported that Japanese banks , which balked at the first bid , were ready to reject a revised version at around $ 250 a share , or $ 5.65 billion . 
. 
Citicorp , for example , said only that it had `` expressions of interest of a transaction from both the borrowers and the banks , '' but did n't have an agreement . 
But he gave few details on the progress toward a new bid , saying only , `` We are working toward a revised proposal for majority employee ownership . '' 
Meanwhile , in another sign that a new bid is n't imminent , it was learned that the UAL board held a telephone meeting Monday to hear an update on the situation , but that a formal board meeting is n't likely to be convened until early next week . 
, but that a formal board meeting is n't likely to be convened until early next week . 
But British Air , which was to have supplied $ 750 million out of $ 965 million in equity financing , apparently was n't involved in the second proposal and could well reject it even if banks obtain financing . 
The machinists also asked for an investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission into possible securities-law violations in the original bid for UAL by Mr. Davis , as well as in the response by UAL . 
. 
, and that it is far better for all employees than the alternative of having an outsider own the company with employees paying for it just the same . '' 
, relying instead only on a takeover lawyer , Peter Atkins of Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom . 
The stock 's decline also has left the UAL board in a quandary . 
. 
if the buy-out group ca n't revive its bid , it may have to explore alternatives if the buyers come back with a bid much lower than the group 's original $ 300-a-share proposal . 
, the board also was informed by its investment adviser , First Boston Corp. , of interest expressed by buy-out funds including Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. and Forstmann Little & Co. , as well as by Robert Bass , Morgan Stanley 's buy-out fund , and Pan Am Corp . 
, or that the board might consider a recapitalization . 
Meanwhile , Japanese bankers said they were still hesitant about accepting Citicorp 's latest proposal . 
. 
U.S. , and 3.4 million additional shares will be offered in concurrent international offerings outside the U.S. . 
and to lend the remainder of about $ 128 million to Maxwell Communications in connection with a promissory note . 
And , if still conscious at the evening 's end , you notice something else : The audience , at first entranced and hypnotized by the music , releases its pent-up feelings in collective gratitude . 
. 
or one does n't . 
The work , though , sounds like Muzak for spaceships . 
. 
-LRB- therefore unthreatening -RRB- , unvaryingly rhythmic -LRB- therefore soporific -RRB- , and unflaggingly harmonious but unmelodic -LRB- therefore both pretty and unconventional -RRB- . 
-LRB- therefore soporific -RRB- , and unflaggingly harmonious but unmelodic -LRB- therefore both pretty and unconventional -RRB- . 
-LRB- therefore both pretty and unconventional -RRB- . 
But the music has its charm , and Mr. Glass has constructed his solo program around a move from the simple to the relatively complex . 
, and Mr. Glass has constructed his solo program around a move from the simple to the relatively complex . 
, and his fingers seldom leave the keys . 
; indeed , it 's hard to imagine a bad performance of it . 
, but they all seem to be saying the same thing . 
, but there is little filigree even though his fingers begin to wander over more of the keys . 
even though his fingers begin to wander over more of the keys . 
, then it becomes soft , then -LRB- you realize -RRB- it becomes louder again . 
, then -LRB- you realize -RRB- it becomes louder again . 
but it does n't seem to move much beyond its left-hand ground in `` Three Blind Mice . '' 
. 
before the piece ends unresolved . 
, it is also often multiple in its context -LRB- s -RRB- . 
U.S. , when Mr. Glass played it on the organ at New York 's Cathedral of St. John the Divine . 
Later it was performed on Radio Bremen in Germany , and then Lucinda Childs took it for one of her dance pieces . 
, and then Lucinda Childs took it for one of her dance pieces . 
, and then Lucinda Childs took it for one of her dance pieces . 
, '' and the two other parts from incidental music to two separate dramatizations of the Kafka story of the same name . 
, as when a two-note phrase , a descending minor third , accompanies the seemingly endless litany of reports , interviews and confessions of witnesses in the Morris film . 
Served up as a solo , however , the music lacks the resonance provided by a context within another medium . 
But while making the obvious point that both composers develop variations from themes , this comparison ignores the intensely claustrophobic nature of Mr. Glass 's music . 
. 
, but indicated it intends to hold at least 20 % of the joint venture 's stock long term . 
which also calls for a reduction of dependence on weapons sales . 
, but it is simply wrong . 
when enacted in 1972 , and should not now be confused with the operative provisions of the statute . 
Thus , you do the public a great disservice when Mr. Greve suggests , even facetiously , that the Clean Water Act prohibits the preparation of a scotch and water ; your tippling readers may be led to believe that nothing but chance or oversight protects them , as they cower in the night with their scotch and waters , from the hairyknuckled knock of the Sierra Club at their doors . 
when Mr. Greve suggests , even facetiously , that the Clean Water Act prohibits the preparation of a scotch and water ; your tippling readers may be led to believe that nothing but chance or oversight protects them , as they cower in the night with their scotch and waters , from the hairyknuckled knock of the Sierra Club at their doors . 
. 
But now , the magazine is attempting to fight back , with an ambitious plan including a revamped sales strategy and a surprisingly aggressive ad campaign . 
, and in many ways we were n't . '' 
But this year , when the hullabaloo surrounding its centennial died , so too did some advertiser interest . 
. 
-- and National Geographic has some quirks that make it especially unattractive during a soft market . 
, who generally want to appear regularly in a publication or not at all . 
, '' says Harry Glass , New York media manager for Bozell Inc . 
-- for example , ads can run only in the magazines sent to subscribers in the largest 25 markets . 
But the magazine was slower than its competitors to come up with its regional editions , and until last year offered fewer of them than did competitors . 
Time magazine , for example , has more than 100 separate editions going to different regions , top management , and other groups . 
And National Geographic 's smaller-than-average size means extra production costs for advertisers . 
But Ms. McCraw says the magazine is fighting back . 
, and it has been beefing up its sales force . 
And it just launched a promotional campaign to tell chief executives , marketing directors , and media executives just that . 
. 
and the two agencies were hoping to hammer out details by today . 
after a Federal Bureau of Investigation operation led to charges of widespread trading abuses at the Chicago Board of Trade and Chicago Mercantile Exchange . 
because dual trading provides a way to make money in slower markets where there is a shortage of customer orders . 
because traders can buy or sell even when they do n't have a customer order in hand . 
even when they do n't have a customer order in hand . 
, but smaller exchanges or contracts that need additional liquidity are expected to be among them . 
and the rule changes to be completed by Thanksgiving . 
. 
... but people do n't seem to be unhappy with it , '' he said . 
until the exchange has seen the full proposal . 
But at a meeting last week , Tom Donovan , the Board of Trade 's president , told commodity lawyers : `` Dual trading is definitely worth saving . It adds something to the market . 
But some dealers are negotiating looser terms , while others decline to deal at all . 
Toyota Motor Corp. 's Lexus division also provides specifications . 
But only two-thirds of Lexus dealers are constructing new buildings according to the Lexus specs . 
In Louisville , Ky. , for example , David Peterson has built a Lexus dealership with the showroom on the second floor . 
Yet some dealers have turned down Infiniti or Lexus franchises because they were unwilling or unable to meet the design requirements . 
because they were unwilling or unable to meet the design requirements . 
in part because `` the building was gorgeous but very expensive . '' 
By 1982 , however , the patent status of the Lanier microcassette had changed , permitting Dictaphone to develop its own competitive micro system , which it did . 
Marketing and sales departments then urged abandonment of the pico project . 
But others said pico should proceed . 
, but it has n't sold well . 
Nevertheless , the device has been successful in other ways . 
, and it provided new technology for other company products . 
The picocassette recorder also helped transform the company 's reputation from follower to leading-edge innovator . 
, but the rake kept riding up over the piles . 
So Mr. Barrett , then vice president of the Alabama Steamship Association , took a steel-toothed garden rake and taped it to the underside of a leaf rake about nine inches up . 
Now incorporated into a polypropylene rake , the four-inch prongs , or `` wonderbars , '' also are supposed to aid in picking up leaves . 
But other rake makers have their doubts . 
, '' but it would be `` tough '' to explain to consumers . 
, '' he says , `` or they start pulling from a fresh direction . '' 
, so we created the Southern Command in Panama . 
because Raeder 's ghost sometimes runs through the E ring dressed like Gen. Noriega . 
, but we keep the staff around just in case . 
, but the Navy headquarters on the fourth deck made them stop it . 
but Secretary of the Navy James Forrestal blocked him . 
till it 's done . 
But we still hear him moaning at night because the Navy has a few ships left , and to satisfy him the Navy 's sea lift forces were given to a new Air Force bureaucracy in Illinois , its space operations to another command in Colorado , the frogmen to a new Army bureaucracy in Fort Bragg , and the Navy 's Indian Ocean and Persian Gulf forces to an Army bureaucracy in Florida . 
because the Navy has a few ships left , and to satisfy him the Navy 's sea lift forces were given to a new Air Force bureaucracy in Illinois , its space operations to another command in Colorado , the frogmen to a new Army bureaucracy in Fort Bragg , and the Navy 's Indian Ocean and Persian Gulf forces to an Army bureaucracy in Florida . 
, and to satisfy him the Navy 's sea lift forces were given to a new Air Force bureaucracy in Illinois , its space operations to another command in Colorado , the frogmen to a new Army bureaucracy in Fort Bragg , and the Navy 's Indian Ocean and Persian Gulf forces to an Army bureaucracy in Florida . 
. 
But that ghost would n't settle for words , he wanted money and people -- lots . 
So Mr. Carter formed three new Army divisions and gave them to a new bureaucracy in Tampa called the Rapid Deployment Force . 
But that ghost was n't fooled ; he knew the RDF was neither rapid nor deployable nor a force -- even though it cost $ 8 billion or $ 10 billion a year . 
-- even though it cost $ 8 billion or $ 10 billion a year . 
and then went after President Reagan and Cap Weinberger . 
and then went after President Reagan and Cap Weinberger . 
till he coughed up an additional $ 2 billion or so . 
. 
, but it turned out that they had forgotten all about mine sweepers . 
But the shah still kept leaping out at Cap , so Cap bought a hundred merchant ships more and $ 7 billion of loading barges , ramps , etc. , in order that those seven new Army divisions and three Marine brigades could unload from all those new ships and aircraft and go to war in the Zagros mountains . 
, so Cap bought a hundred merchant ships more and $ 7 billion of loading barges , ramps , etc. , in order that those seven new Army divisions and three Marine brigades could unload from all those new ships and aircraft and go to war in the Zagros mountains . 
We 'd get our asses kicked . '' Then suddenly Ike 's ghost came to visit and said , `` What the hell are you doing planning for a land war in Asia 12,000 miles away ? 
So the U.S. found itself paying about $ 2 billion in baksheesh to various Arab potentates for basing rights around the Indian Ocean . 
But then it turned out that President Siad Barrah was not at all a nice person and the Navy pointed out that the base he promised us in Berbera had silted up about a hundred years ago and anyway was 1,244 miles from the mouth of the Gulf . 
and the Navy pointed out that the base he promised us in Berbera had silted up about a hundred years ago and anyway was 1,244 miles from the mouth of the Gulf . 
-LRB- But who 's counting . -RRB- 
Still , Berbera was the best we could get , so we stay in bed with President Barrah . 
, so we stay in bed with President Barrah . 
But would n't you know , now that we are spending jillions of dollars , and have built those new divisions and new air wings , and have positioned all these ships and supplies to fight the Russians in Iran , the Russians seem to have lost interest in the whole subject . 
. 
Meanwhile , Congress is cutting huge chunks out of the rest of the defense budget . 
And why not save the costs of a thousand bureaucrats by abolishing Central Command and putting responsibility for Gulf naval operations back where it belongs , afloat with the task force commander in the Gulf ? 
And where were all our handsomely paid Indian Ocean allies last year when our convoys were being attacked ? '' 
until Mr. Cheney promised to do whatever the Pentagon systems analysts told him . 
So next day Mr. Cheney went out and did just that : He canceled the 600-ship Navy and cut back one carrier and 20 frigates . 
Then he canceled production of the Navy 's most important carrier aircraft , the F-14 and the A-6 . 
On the other hand , Mr. Cheney retained all those new land forces . 
, but he 'll be back . 
Then the whole thing will start to collapse , just as it did in the 1970s , and the ghosts and banshees will be howling through the place turning people 's hair white . 
, just as it did in the 1970s , and the ghosts and banshees will be howling through the place turning people 's hair white . 
At the moment , however , the painting is a nagging reminder of the problems that have engulfed CenTrust and its flamboyant chairman and chief executive , David L. Paul . 
even as CenTrust was losing money hand over fist . 
. 
, as he takes a drag on a goldbanded St. Moritz cigarette . 
. 
And CenTrust has other problems . 
, but it has yet to be approved by regulators . 
Gallery directors , meanwhile , say Mr. Paul and others of his ilk have left an indelible mark on the art world -- and not for the better . 
, so certainly $ 10 million is n't too much for mine . ' 
, and the new buyers are brilliant men who made money in the stock market or in takeovers and rushed into collecting ... . '' 
, and until he does , Sotheby 's has the painting under lock and key . -RRB- 
. -RRB- 
. 
He paid $ 2.2 million , for instance , for a still life by Jan Jansz. den Uyl that was expected to fetch perhaps $ 700,000 . 
Afterward , Mr. Paul is said by Mr. Guterman to have phoned Mr. Guterman , the New York developer selling the collection , and gloated . 
`` And he tells me , ` If you want to see your paintings , you 'll have to come to my house in Florida . ' '' 
And , according to one dealer , Mr. Wachter had a penchant for introducing Mr. Paul with the phrase : `` He can buy anything . '' 
, but it was recognized that the route was through Sotheby 's and particularly George Wachter . '' 
Mr. Paul thus developed a close , symbiotic relationship with Sotheby 's . 
as it strove to build its U.S. business . 
but also spends big on art you can eat . 
, but the final party cost closer to $ 100,000 . '' 
when it had reported losses of more than $ 13 million in its two preceding quarters . 
In other words : Get rid of all the pictures . 
and that the rest were in storage at Sotheby 's . 
, until CenTrust 's new building was ready for them . 
Still , the incident was embarrassing . 
For instance , he got a $ 3 million loan from the S&L , negotiated at a below-market rate . 
The $ 12 million lavished on the Rubens , for example , was a record price for the artist and maybe twice its value , given a dispute among scholars about its provenance . 
It may have been painted instead by a Rubens associate . 
and adds that getting rid of it any time soon for a similar sum would be quite a feat . 
, but whether it could be sold for that amount tomorrow remains to be seen . '' 
Still , predicting is tricky . 
, but a good deal of legerdemain is involved in compiling statistics on sales . 
Salomon , moreover , gets its data on art appreciation from Sotheby 's , whose prices go up with clients like Mr. Paul in its thrall . 
But art that has fallen sharply in value is rarely put up for sale . 
Also , at any of Sotheby 's auctions of old masters , roughly one-third to one-fifth of what is offered does n't sell at any price . 
, but the bids do n't meet the minimum `` reserve '' prices set by the sellers . 
until Mr. Paul came along with his $ 1.15 million . 
But from his vantage point , it is n't that Mr. Paul , a customer of his too , overpaid for the work , `` a gargantuan painting by an artist who is not a household word . '' 
Rather , `` It just shows things have changed . '' 
just before they took an upward turn . 
, and they 'll do it again this year , '' he declares . 
And while Sotheby 's chief rivals in the art world , private art dealers , `` wo n't be happy to hear it , '' she adds , `` a number of -LCB- the artworks -RCB- have already been sold , and at a substantial profit . '' 
, and the claim is n't documented . 
He furthermore denies that he relied too heavily on Sotheby 's or Mr. Wachter . 
and that he never bid impulsively . 
But in art-world parlance , Mr. Paul 's holdings are `` burnt . '' 
But quick turnover in artwork is `` like pawning your jewelry -- you end up with 50 % . 
, '' Mr. Wachter concedes , but he says those who bid less and dropped out were dealers who would then have marked up the paintings to resell them at a profit to collectors . 
were dealers who would then have marked up the paintings to resell them at a profit to collectors . 
and to set price estimates on the paintings to be purchased . '' 
, she adds , `` so we do n't know who the potential buyer will be . '' 
and that potential buyers from as far away as Japan and Italy have examined the collection . 
But so far , Mr. Paul and his advisers are holding fast . 
-- to buy it attractively -- and -LCB- Sotheby 's -RCB- would n't do it . 
Meanwhile , Mr. Paul and CenTrust executives are getting squeamish about opulence . 
But at just that moment , he is interrupted in his office by a servant in tuxedo who pours coffee from silver into a cup of china and dabs the brim with linen . 
But he implores that the splendor be played down . 
`` Otherwise , the regulators will take it for decadence , and nowadays everything 's got to be pristine . '' 
, and nowadays everything 's got to be pristine . '' 
Otherwise , actual profit is compared with the 300-day estimate . 
because they were writing rules while handling clients ' books at the same time . 
, but the others were from industry and academia . 
And in November 1970 Congress had passed a special act to overrule one board rule . 
Also , James Needham , an SEC commissioner , in April 1972 had warned that the industry might face a `` federal agency writing accounting rules '' if they rejected the FASB idea . 
, and some still rile industry . 
Amcast previously had said it planned to repurchase shares , but did n't disclose when or how many shares it intended to buy back . 
, Helionetics said , and work on the project would be about evenly divided . 
And Alcan Aluminium Ltd. yesterday reported net income slid 30 % to $ 180 million , or 77 cents a share , from $ 258 million , or $ 1.07 a share . 
and the third quarter is typically the industry 's slowest period . 
But William O. Bourke , chairman and chief executive officer , said the ingot price `` appears to have bottomed out . '' 
and the company has no excess inventory . 
Nevertheless , the company said that in the latest quarter there were increased material and labor costs , including a new employee profit-sharing plan . 
But quite a few money managers are n't buying it . 
. 
, but it 's not cheap either , '' says George Collins , president of the mutual fund company T. Rowe Price Associates in Baltimore . 
, and things are going to be hunky-dory . 
, and I continue to think that having a defensive position is appropriate , '' he says . 
For instance , he says , International Business Machines and Unisys might look cheap , but investors might continue to do better with stocks like Walt Disney , Procter & Gamble and Coca-Cola , strong performers in recent years . 
, but investors might continue to do better with stocks like Walt Disney , Procter & Gamble and Coca-Cola , strong performers in recent years . 
before they are competitive with less risky investment alternatives . 
There are still bulls out there . 
Many brokerage house officials also are optimistic . 
, because it deflated a lot of crazy takeover speculation . 
Many investors have nagging worries , however . 
, but doing deals on the basis of ridiculous assumptions never made sense , either . '' 
because they assumed there would be major gains in both profitability and sales , Mr. Rosenthal added . 
`` But when prices were crazy , it was even harder to do an LBO . 
. 
`` It would also help us in our search for equity partners . 
, but potential junk-bond buyers are sure to demand even stronger covenants and greater management equity participation . 
However , the lower prices these retail chains are now expected to bring should make it easier for managers to raise the necessary capital and pay back the resulting debt . 
In addition , the fall selling season has generally been a good one , especially for those retailers dependent on apparel sales for the majority of their revenues . 
Still , most retailing observers expect that all the proposed retailing LBOs will depend partly on the sale of junk bonds , a market already in tumult , in part because of concerns associated with bonds issued by the Federated and Allied units of Campeau . 
`` But the hurdle of financing still has to be resolved . 
He also repeated Justin 's denial of Sony 's charges . 
when gas prices were high and supplies short . 
But pipeline companies estimate they still face $ 2.4 billion in liabilities from unresolved disputes , including $ 1 billion they fear they wo n't be able to pass on to customers . 
The court left open whether FERC could reimpose a new deadline later . 
The court also questioned a crediting mechanism that could be used to resolve take-or-pay liabilities . 
But opponents fear overcrowding . 
, and it ca n't hold them all , '' says Pierluigi Beggiato , the president of the Venice hoteliers association . 
when we have n't got anything in the shops ? '' one housewife asked . 
But Bogdan Gumkowski , who runs the casino at Warsaw 's Marriott Hotel , said the ventures would help Poland service its $ 39 billion foreign debt by pouring dollars into the state firms in the joint ventures -- the LOT airline and Orbis tourist organization . 
Algeria also wants to build a pipeline through Morocco and across the Strait of Gibraltar to supply Spain , France and West Germany with up to 15 billion cubic meters a year by the late 1990s . 
It also said the union had agreed to meet the company for further talks tomorrow . 
, because we are directly affected by their ecological progress or lack of it . '' 
after the first run sold out in one day . 
, and the Estonian management company Minor owns 49 % . 
, but auto makers here are n't panicking . 
In fact , some auto executives suggest that slackened demand for their cars in the U.S. and Canada is a blessing ; otherwise they would n't be able to keep up with demand in the more profitable local market . 
; otherwise they would n't be able to keep up with demand in the more profitable local market . 
But South Korean auto makers are confident that the export market will bounce back and that demand in Korea will stay strong . 
and that demand in Korea will stay strong . 
By then it also hopes to begin producing a passenger car based on the Volvo 240 and selling for about $ 20,000 . 
By then it also hopes to begin producing a passenger car based on the Volvo 240 and selling for about $ 20,000 . 
, but Kia , the scrappy No.3 auto maker , is selling four-wheel-drive vehicles through its Asia unit . 
Moreover , Daewoo 's domestic sales have grown half as fast as sales of its rivals . 
But Daewoo is expanding too . 
Hyundai , the Korean market leader with a 58 % share , also plans to jump into minicars at the same time . 
Kia is reportedly also considering such a plan . 
, when investors dumped $ 2.3 billion , or about 2 % of stock-fund assets . 
And some investors at Fidelity and elsewhere even began buying stock funds during the day . 
And any strong surge in redemptions could force some funds to dump stocks to raise cash , as some did during Black Monday . 
But funds generally are better prepared this time around . 
after the telephone lines opened at 8:30 a.m . 
`` But the horrendous pace of call volume in the first half-hour slowed considerably . '' 
. 
As stocks rose , in fact , some investors changed course and reversed their sell orders . 
before the close of trading . 
At Scudder and at the smaller Ivy funds group in Hingham , Mass. , for instance , some shareholders called early in the morning to switch money from stock funds to money market funds , but later called back to reverse the switches . 
, but later called back to reverse the switches . 
. 
But by 3:15 p.m. , with the market comfortably ahead for the day , Mr. Sherman was preparing to undo his switch . 
But some investors continued to switch out of high-risk , high-yield junk funds despite yesterday 's rebound from that market 's recent price declines . 
as the $ 200 billion market was jolted by a cash crunch at Campeau Corp. and steadily declining prices . 
Instead of selling bonds to meet redemptions , however , some funds have borrowed from banks to meet withdrawal requests . 
. 
But the new lens became the eye of a storm . 
-- made by unlicensed companies -- after some showed traces of bacteria . 
And there were Senate hearings on the questions in July 1972 . 
. 
, and others wish they could . 
as investors shun risky deals , seeking safety in bigger companies . 
, and bankers believed Staples would sell new stock without a hitch . 
But with the company 's shares standing at $ 15 yesterday , a new offering seems unlikely , company officials say . 
, '' and the stock market has n't affected the concern 's expansion plans , says Todd Krasnow , a senior executive . 
, '' says Mr. Linsert , `` so we have to go ahead '' with a planned $ 1.5 billion private placement . 
. '' 
And the Columbia , Md. , company may have to settle for a lower price , he adds . 
. 
because the market for IPOs was showing signs of strengthening after several years of weakness . 
`` But the tunnel 's just gotten longer . '' 
But now , Peter Behrendt , president , says , `` We 're making decisions on a day-to-day basis . '' 
KnowledgeWare Inc. , an Atlanta computer-software concern , says it is still planning to go ahead with its IPO this week or next -- unless conditions change . 
-- unless conditions change . 
Delayed financings also would affect the operations of many companies . 
William O'Donnell , president , says he still thinks the IPO will succeed . 
But the market turmoil could be partially beneficial for some small businesses . 
, and that should bring interest rates down , '' says Leonard T. Anctil , vice president of the Bank of New England , Boston . 
. 
Instead , they could turn to investing in smaller deals involving smaller companies , he says . 
And William E. Wetzel Jr. , a University of New Hampshire management professor and director of Venture Capital Network Inc. , says the market 's gyrations will underline the investors ' lack of control in big stock investments . 
and said it might be forced to seek a bankruptcy-court reorganization if it ca n't renegotiate its borrowings . 
if it ca n't renegotiate its borrowings . 
Thus it is coming up short on a big bet that quick sales at higher prices would enable it to keep up with mortgage and other debt payments . 
. 
and book value was $ 9.43 a share . 
, but the company said that excluding unusual gains in both quarters , operating profit rose 16 % . 
, because the reserve established last year exceeded the actual recall costs . 
, and operating profit climbed 6 % to $ 61 million , mainly because of improved program performance in spacecraft and advanced-technology contracts . 
However , excluding the year-earlier charge for recall of steering gear , operating profit in the latest quarter declined 14 % , reflecting higher start-up and product development expenses in passenger-restraint systems . 
as if the realistic English novel of manners , like Britannia herself , still ruled the waves . 
. 
and thereby provides a self-portrait , a credo and the author 's metaphor for the aesthetic of the novel we 're reading : 
and thereby provides a self-portrait , a credo and the author 's metaphor for the aesthetic of the novel we 're reading : 
, and there may be those who believe this a somewhat immodest practice . 
Yet I would venture that the landscape of our country alone would justify the use of this lofty adjective ... . 
But let Stevens continue in his unwitting comic manner -LRB- his conscious efforts at `` banter '' always fail -- most comically -RRB- : `` This whole question is very akin to the question that has caused much debate in our profession over the years : what is a ` great ' butler ? '' 
because they are as a breed incapable of the emotional restraint which only the English race are capable of . '' 
If , for example , in the midst of a great social occasion -LRB- such as an international conference on revising the Versailles Treaty in 1923 -RRB- , one 's 72-yearold father , himself a great butler once , should happen to die of a stroke , one must continue to serve the port : `` Please do n't think me unduly improper in not ascending to see my father in his deceased condition just at this moment . 
In the end , after meeting with the former housekeeper , Stevens sits by the seashore at dusk , thinking of her and of his employer , and declares `` I trusted . 
But as `` The Remains of the Day '' so eloquently demonstrates with quiet virtuosity , such wisdom can be movingly embodied in art . 
Then Aer Lingus , the Irish flag carrier , could teach Aeroflot pilots to fly the Boeings , and the fleet could be based here at Shannon Airport . 
, and the fleet could be based here at Shannon Airport . 
And then there is his notion of an Irish-Soviet charter airline to ferry Armenians to Los Angeles via Shannon . 
And then there is his notion of an Irish-Soviet charter airline to ferry Armenians to Los Angeles via Shannon . 
GPA is indeed talking about leasing Western planes to Aeroflot and even about buying Soviet-built Tupolev 204s . 
And as Aeroflot struggles to boost its service standards , upgrade its fleet and pursue commercial opportunities , the Irish aviation industry seems poised to benefit . 
. 
Moreover , he says , Irish companies are small but spunky . 
, and Shannon Airport , the airline 's largest transit airport outside the Soviet Union , saw 1,400 Aeroflot flights and 250,000 passengers pass through . 
Aeroflot thus pays its landing fees , ground-handling and catering bills with fuel , preserving its hard currency . 
, and hard-currency shops in Leningrad hotels and on the Soviet-Finnish frontier are coming soon . 
. 
, but Aeroflot still flies inefficient Ilyushins that ca n't make it from Moscow to Managua on one hop . 
As a result , Ireland did n't spurn the Soviets after they shot down a Korean Air Lines jetliner over the Sea of Japan in 1983 , though it suspended direct Moscow-Shannon flights for two months . 
after they shot down a Korean Air Lines jetliner over the Sea of Japan in 1983 , though it suspended direct Moscow-Shannon flights for two months . 
, though it suspended direct Moscow-Shannon flights for two months . 
In fact , Aer Lingus started ferrying Russians from Shannon to New York when Washington stripped Aeroflot of its U.S. landing rights . 
when Washington stripped Aeroflot of its U.S. landing rights . 
And , with those contacts in place , it could be relatively simple to add Aer Lingus and GPA to the team . 
. 
It also enables minimills finally to get a toehold in the flat-rolled steel market -- the major steelmakers ' largest , most prized , and until now , untouchable , market . 
But such thin-slab technology is only the beginning . 
Moreover , their balance sheets are rich with diversity , their old plants shuttered , and work forces lean . 
But that wo n't suffice . 
And try plying new dollars free in a market that is softening , hurt by a strong dollar and concerned about overcapacity -- the industry 's Darth Vadar . 
and they ca n't get their workers to be flexible . '' 
, and it will be years before such plants can compete in the high-profit market . 
before such plants can compete in the high-profit market . 
Still , flat-rolled is the steel industry 's bread and butter , representing about half of the 80 million tons of steel expected to be shipped this year . 
Moreover , the process is n't without its headaches . 
. 
, but it does challenge them to develop new markets , '' says James McCall , vice president , materials , at Battelle , a technology and management-research giant based in Columbus , Ohio . 
Indeed , with demand for steel not growing fast enough to absorb capacity , steelmakers will have to change the way they do business . 
so shipments could be delivered within 15 minutes . 
so shipments could be delivered within 15 minutes . 
, especially when those key clients are relying on a smaller pool of producers and flirting with plastic and aluminum makers . 
For example , when Detroit began talking about plastic-bodied cars , the American Iron and Steel Institute began a major lobbying effort to show auto makers how they could use steel more efficiently by simply redesigning how a car door is assembled . 
. 
But steelmakers must also find new markets . 
But steelmakers must also find new markets . 
. 
Weirton Steel Corp. , Weirton , W. Va. , for example , is touting to homeowners fashionable steel doors , with leaded glass inserts , as a secure and energy-efficient alternative to wooden or aluminum ones . 
Producers also are trying to differentiate by concentrating on higher-profit output , such as coated and electrogalvanized products , which remain beyond the reach of minimills . 
But unfortunately , that segment is much smaller than the bread-and-butter flat-rolled steel . 
. 
. '' 
Moreover , the U.S. can expect more competition from low-cost producing Pacific Rim and Latin American countries . 
Most have read the pre-trial documents , however , and estimate Kodak will be ordered to pay $ 1 billion to $ 1.5 billion for infringing on seven Polaroid patents . 
, but it is well below the $ 12 billion Polaroid seeks . 
The two companies later agreed to settle for $ 95 million . 
, but the chances are low , '' said Michael Ellman , an analyst at Wertheim Schroder & Co . 
And Eugene Glazer , an analyst at Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. , said : `` If you hired an attorney to be there all the time and give you a -LRB- prediction -RRB- of the eventual award , I would be willing to bet that he would be off '' by a lot . 
. 
and whether the infringement was `` willful and deliberate . '' 
, '' and Kodak followed his advice in every instance , Mr. Crary said . 
But Irving Kayton , a patent expert at George Mason University School of Law who is familiar with the case , said the fact that seven patents were infringed `` suggests that infringement was willful . 
Observers also wonder whether Judge Mazzone will use the lost-profits method of determining damages , which Polaroid favors because it would result in a larger award , or the reasonable royalty method . 
because it would result in a larger award , or the reasonable royalty method . 
Moreover , Polaroid contends it could have sold them at a higher price -- and thus made higher profits -- because it would n't have been forced to match Kodak 's lower prices . 
-- and thus made higher profits -- because it would n't have been forced to match Kodak 's lower prices . 
-- and thus made higher profits -- because it would n't have been forced to match Kodak 's lower prices . 
and Polaroid brought in Robert J. Dolan . 
IBM , which telegraphed the poor results three weeks ago , also cited an increase in its leasing business , which tends to lock in business long-term but cut revenue in the near term . 
In addition , IBM noted that the stronger dollar has cut the value of overseas revenue and earnings when they are translated into dollars . 
when they are translated into dollars . 
because he decided sales would be even weaker than he had expected . 
only because `` all the damage has been done . '' 
as the market surged . 
and how soon does production ramp up ? '' said Steve Cohen at SoundView Financial Group . 
`` And the input I 've had from customers is that it still could be a while . '' 
But he said IBM would have won the business anyway as a sale to a third party that would have then leased the equipment to the customer . 
but has also been losing money on its leases . 
But the basic technology in the line is almost five years old , which means it is long in the tooth , and competitors are rolling out strong products of their own . 
, and competitors are rolling out strong products of their own . 
But it 's hard to squeeze much profit out of the personal-computer business these days , and the workstation market , while important , is too small to rely on for much growth . 
, and the workstation market , while important , is too small to rely on for much growth . 
. 
when they finally become available . 
The disk drives will doubtless sell well when they finally become available . 
But the AS\/400 , IBM 's highly successful minicomputer line , is losing its momentum , and some analysts said sales could even decline in the fourth quarter . 
, and some analysts said sales could even decline in the fourth quarter . 
In addition , IBM 's growth in software in the third quarter was just 8.8 % , well below historical levels even when adjusted to reflect last year 's payment from Fujitsu and the stronger dollar . 
even when adjusted to reflect last year 's payment from Fujitsu and the stronger dollar . 
And expenses , up 7.9 % in the quarter , have stayed stubbornly high . 
after the company releases its earnings today . 
The official said he also would be comfortable with that new range . 
Mr. Calloway also noted that soft-drink volume rose a hefty 9 % in last year 's third quarter , making the comparison more difficult . 
, as the chain continues to benefit from its price-value strategy . 
But , `` You never can tell , '' he added , `` you have to take advantage of opportunities . 
and Mr. Allday was a lawyer for an oil firm . 
because `` the contract 's objectives ca n't be fulfilled . '' 
, '' said Central Maine senior vice president Donald F. Kelly . 
Thus , options traders Friday were stuck with losses that also were several times larger than those suffered by many stock traders in New York . 
Thus , options traders Friday were stuck with losses that also were several times larger than those suffered by many stock traders in New York . 
as it was falling . 
They then had no choice in many cases but to sell the contracts at prevailing prices -- in most cases at a substantial loss . 
But while the Merc reopened a half hour later , the CBOE remained closed , leaving many options traders unable to make trades that might have reduced the losses . 
, and with the stock-index futures on the verge of closing for a second and final time , the CBOE reasoned that its best course was to remain closed . 
Fossett still had several million dollars in capital left after Friday 's close of trading , but not enough that regulators , worried about another potential market plunge yesterday , would let it reopen for trading , options exchange officials said . 
Thus , in an unprecedented arrangement underscoring the seriousness of the transfer , the CBOE , the American Stock Exchange and the Options Clearing Corp. , as well as the firm 's owner , Stephen Fossett , put up a total of $ 50 million to guarantee the customer positions being transferred to the bank holding company subsidiary in case the market plunged again yesterday . 
, but that conditions were n't dictated by those agencies . 
But CBOE and Amex officials said that Options Clearing Corp. contributed $ 20 million to the guarantee , the CBOE put up $ 8 million , the Amex added $ 4 million and $ 18 million came from Mr. Fossett 's own assets . 
and $ 18 million came from Mr. Fossett 's own assets . 
. 
Nor does it at all resemble -LRB- despite what some executives think -RRB- the more intimate variety offered at specialty parlors in bad parts of town . 
On the contrary , office rubdowns usually take place in dimly lighted conference rooms , where stressed-out employees relax in specially designed chairs , fully clothed . 
They also insist that touching is a basic need , as powerful as the need for food or sleep , and that the office is as good a place as any to do it . 
, and that the office is as good a place as any to do it . 
and you do n't feel tension around the head or neck , '' says Minnie Morey , an operations supervisor at the Social Security office in Grand Rapids , Mich. , where massages began last month . 
. '' 
Not everyone , however , is at ease with office massage . 
And even though employees paid the bill , taxpayers grumbled . 
. 
`` And you ca n't have taxpayers coming into an audit hearing ` oohs ' and ` ahs . ' '' 
and the massages ended . 
Massage also has an image problem to contend with . 
But massage , no matter how chaste , is still associated in many minds with seedy fronts for prostitution , and that makes some executives nervous . 
, and that makes some executives nervous . 
But after about eight months , the vice president of the division , Ed Soule , learned about the sessions and brought them to a halt . 
, and a secretary escorts him past security . 
before choosing his current trade . 
She notes that she also stresses professionalism during her weekly visits . 
and to keep people seated . 
`` But he pulled through , and after the ambulance left , there were still six people in line waiting for a massage . 
, and after the ambulance left , there were still six people in line waiting for a massage . 
. 
, there were still six people in line waiting for a massage . 
, and I was afraid to touch her . 
But it 's like falling off a horse and getting back on . '' 
. 
But several weeks ago , in the wake of the Beijing killings , the loan was canceled , according to bankers and executives close to the project . 
, but the harsh crackdown , which caused many businesses to reassess their China transactions , `` gave the banks the out they wanted , '' says an official close to the Shanghai venture . 
. 
Instead , the banks secured a promise from state-owned Bank of Communications that it would lend Asia Development the entire $ 55 million at maturity to finance repayment of the original borrowing . 
, as soon as construction was completed . 
But in a letter sent in August to Asia Development , Schroders said the loan was terminated because the developer had failed to deliver adequate financial data and pay certain fees to the loan-management committee on time , according to officials close to the project . 
because the developer had failed to deliver adequate financial data and pay certain fees to the loan-management committee on time , according to officials close to the project . 
Creditors involved in the project contend , however , that the termination actually had nothing to do with these technical violations . 
Instead , the creditors say , the loan fell victim to nervousness about China 's political turmoil , as well as to concern about the loan 's security . 
, but it includes China 's state-owned Citic Industrial Bank . 
because none of the credit facility had been drawn down . 
as K mart 's profit is declining and sales at its core discount stores are rising more slowly than at such competitors as Wal-Mart Stores Inc . 
and sales at its core discount stores are rising more slowly than at such competitors as Wal-Mart Stores Inc . 
But the Makro chain , which operates as a joint venture between K mart and SHV Holdings N.V. of the Netherlands , has only six stores and annual sales that one analyst estimated at about $ 300 million . 
before turning profitable in fiscal 1988 . 
, and analysts expect its results to continue to improve . 
But some analysts contend K mart has agreed to pay too much for Pace . 
But K mart 's Mr. Antonini is intent on pushing the company into new retail businesses . 
For instance , K mart is opening big food and general merchandise stores , called hypermarkets , and warehouse-type stores specializing in office products and sporting goods . 
It also operates Waldenbooks , Pay Less Drug Stores and Builders Square home improvement stores . 
But those who said `` This ca n't be happening '' were right . The Quotrons were wrong . 
, Quotron said , but the average was wrong . 
Meanwhile , there was an awful lot of confusion . 
. 
; in fact , its true price was $ 224.75 , down $ 55 . 
; in fact , its true price was $ 224.75 , down $ 55 . 
And there were other blunders . 
. 
when it really was down 0.7 % . 
Meanwhile , some currency traders at West German banks in Frankfurt said they sold dollars on the news and had to buy them back later at higher prices . 
and had to buy them back later at higher prices . 
But it was the Quotron problems that had lingering effects . 
, and she said portfolio managers continued to question the numbers they saw on the screen . 
until the problems were corrected . 
So she has agreed to forgo monetary damages against Mr. Alexander 's client in return for the right to punch the attorney . 
Ms. Parks 's mother also gets to cuff Mr. Alexander . 
But Mr. Alexander scuttled the deal at the last minute , angering the plaintiff 's side . 
. 
, and soon they were talking about the ground rules under which Derr could keep its money and the plaintiffs could take a shot at Mr. Alexander . 
and the plaintiffs could take a shot at Mr. Alexander . 
. 
. 
, reaching near-record levels for the first time since October 1987 . 
as prices soared , traders said . 
if prices turned against them . 
a full five minutes before the start of trading at 8:30 am 
But several traders quickly stepped up and bid for contracts , driving prices sharply higher . 
Unlike the week following Black Monday two years ago , individual traders in the S&P 500 pit were also being uncharacteristically circumspect about their one-day profits . 
as the Dow Jones Industrial Average rebounded from Friday 's plunge . 
But the junk recovery , led by the bellwether RJR Holdings bonds , was precarious . 
as potential buyers fled and brokerage firms were unwilling to provide bid and offer prices for most issues . 
and brokerage firms were unwilling to provide bid and offer prices for most issues . 
, and people were n't really sure where the market should have opened '' yesterday , said Raymond Minella , co-head of merchant banking at Merrill Lynch & Co . 
`` But we had a fairly active day yesterday . '' 
But before the stock market rebounded from a sharp early sell-off yesterday , he said , `` You could n't buy -LCB- junk bonds -RCB- and you could n't give them away . '' 
. '' 
-RCB- and you could n't give them away . '' 
before rebounding to 99 3\/4 . 
Bonds issued by Kroger , Duracell , Safeway and American Standard also showed big gains , recovering almost all their losses from Friday and early yesterday . 
But traders said the junk bond market increasingly is separating into a top-tier group , in which trades can be executed easily , and a larger group of lower-quality bonds in which liquidity -- or the ability to trade without too much difficulty -- has steadily deteriorated this year . 
and rise later , says , `` We 're now in a period where we 're starting to see defaults from the big issue years of 1984 to 1986 . '' 
, because we 're already seeing big problems in the midst of a pretty strong economy . 
But yesterday 's rally among `` good '' junk was a badly needed tonic for the market . 
, '' Mr. Minella said , and benchmark junk issues `` recovered all of their losses '' from Friday and early yesterday . 
In contrast , he says , `` The stock market gained back only about half what it lost Friday , and the -LCB- government -RCB- bond market lost about half what it gained Friday . '' 
, and the -LCB- government -RCB- bond market lost about half what it gained Friday . '' 
In addition , mutual funds did n't appear to be major sellers of high-yield securities as was expected . 
Corp. even before a United Airlines buy-out came apart Friday , withdrew his $ 7.54 billion offer . 
Separately , bankers representing the group trying to buy United 's parent UAL Corp. met with other banks about reviving that purchase at a lower price , possibly around $ 250 a share , or $ 5.65 billion . 
But a lower bid could face rejection by the UAL board . 
after the UAL buyers failed to obtain financing for their earlier $ 300-a-share bid , which sparked a selling panic among that snowballed into a 190-point drop Friday in the Dow Jones Industrial Average . 
after trading was halted Friday for the UAL announcement , sent both stocks nosediving in composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange . 
, and AMR declined by $ 22.125 to $ 76.50 as 4.7 million shares changed hands . 
as 4.7 million shares changed hands . 
even before problems emerged with the UAL deal . 
. 
because he has a record of disclosing stakes in companies that are potential takeover targets , then selling at a profit without making a bid . 
before the AMR board , which is due to meet tomorrow , ever formally considered it . 
AMR had also sought to foil Mr. Trump in Congress by lobbying for legislation that would have bolstered the authority of the Transportation Department to reject airline buy-outs . 
, and Mr. Trump did n't respond to requests for interviews . 
before selling any shares . 
before his announcement reached the market , Mr. Trump could be sitting with a modest loss with the stock at $ 76.50 . 
However , other knowledgeable observers said they believed Mr. Crandall and the AMR board might well decide to tough it out without taking any extra steps . 
But others remained skeptical . 
Meanwhile , Citicorp and Chase Manhattan Corp. , the two lead lenders on the UAL buy-out , met with other banks yesterday to determine if they would be willing to finance the buy-out at a lower price . 
, but said that price was a talking point and that no decision has been made . 
and that no decision has been made . 
after Citibank and Chase could n't raise $ 7.2 billion . 
, and said they were `` highly confident '' of raising another $ 4.2 billion . 
But other banks balked at the low interest rate and banking fees the UAL group was willing to pay them . 
Nor is the group likely to come forward with a revised offer within the next 48 hours despite the hopes of many traders . 
In addition , the coalition of labor and management , longtime enemies who joined forces only under the threat of Mr. Davis 's bid , could break apart now . 
But if the board rejects a reduced bid and decides to explore other alternatives , it could transform what has been a harmonious process into an adversarial one . 
because they can refuse to fly the airplanes . 
because banks might hesitate to finance a transaction the pilots oppose . 
because banks might hesitate to finance a transaction the pilots oppose . 
Also , because UAL Chairman Stephen Wolf and other UAL executives have joined the pilots ' bid , the board might be forced to exclude him from its deliberations in order to be fair to other bidders . 
in order to be fair to other bidders . 
